
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stock, Peter G.
AU  - Mannon, Roslyn B.
AU  - Armstrong, Brian
AU  - Watson, Natasha
AU  - Ikle, David
AU  - Robien, Mark
AU  - Morrison, Yvonne
AU  - Odorico, Jon
AU  - Fridell, Jonathan
AU  - Mehta, Aneesh K.
AU  - Newell, Kenneth A.
TI  - Challenges of calcineurin inhibitor withdrawal following combined pancreas and kidney transplantation: Results of a prospective, randomized clinical trial
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
JA  - Am J Transplant
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 1600-6135
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.15817
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.15817
AB  - Abstract In a phase 2 multi-center open label randomized trial sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) recipients were randomized to a calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) based immunosuppressive regimen (tacrolimus) (n=21) or an investigational arm using low-dose CNI plus co-stimulation blockade (belatacept) with intended CNI withdrawal (n=22). Both arms included induction therapy with rabbit ATG, mycophenolate sodium or mycophenolate mofetil, and rapid withdrawal of steroids. Enrollment and CNI withdrawal were stopped after 43/60 planned subjects had been enrolled. At that time the rate of biopsy proven acute rejection (BPAR) of the pancreas was low in both groups until CNI was withdrawn, with four of the five pancreas rejections occurring during or after CNI withdrawal. The rate of BPAR of kidney allografts was low in both control (9.5%) and investigational (9.1%) arms. Pancreas graft survival at 52 weeks, defined by insulin independence, was 21 (100%) in the control group and 19 (86%) in the investigational arm. One subject in the investigational arm died with functioning pancreas and kidney grafts. Renal function at week 52 was similar in both arms. Costimulation blockade with belatacept did not provide sufficient immunosuppression to reliably prevent pancreas rejection in SPK transplants undergoing CNI withdrawal.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Benjamin, Ruha
C8  - SOCO-0848.R1
TI  - Race for Cures: Rethinking the Racial Logics of ‘Trust’ in Biomedicine
JO  - Sociology Compass
JA  - Sociology Compass
VL  - 8
IS  - 6
SN  - 1751-9020
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/soc4.12167
DO  - doi:10.1111/soc4.12167
SP  - 755
EP  - 769
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract This article examines the normative underpinnings of ?trust talk?, asking how biomedical discourse constructs racial group boundaries and what implications this has for our understanding of the politics of medicine more broadly. Drawing upon a 2-year multi-method study of the world's largest stem cell research initiative and extending key insights from the sociology of race?ethnicity and social studies of science and medicine, this paper identifies three ways in which discourse in the stem cell field constructs racial group boundaries ? through diversity outreach, clinical gatekeeping, and charismatic collaborations. In so doing, the paper also explicates counter-narratives ? medical racial profiling, subversive whiteness, and biopolitical minstrelsy ? as forms of discursive resistance that challenge the normative underpinnings of recruitment discourse.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lin, Weili
AU  - Paczynski, Richard P.
AU  - Venkatesan, Ramesh
AU  - He, Yong Y.
AU  - Powers, William J.
AU  - Hsu, Chung Y.
AU  - Haacke, E. Mark
TI  - Quantitative regional brain water measurement with magnetic resonance imaging in a focal ischemia model
JO  - Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
JA  - Magn. Reson. Med.
VL  - 38
IS  - 2
SN  - 0740-3194
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mrm.1910380221
DO  - doi:10.1002/mrm.1910380221
SP  - 303
EP  - 310
KW  - MRI
KW  - brain edema
KW  - ischemic stroke
PY  - 1997
AB  - Abstract Therapeutic approaches to cerebral edema require an understanding of both the magnitude and location of changes in brain water content. It is desirable to have a sensitive, accurate means of measuring brain water noninvasively so that effective therapies for cerebral edema in stroke, head trauma, and other conditions can be investigated. In this work, a three-dimensional magnetic resonance imaging technique that is able to provide both spin density and T1 simultaneously is described. This method was used to quantitate regional changes in brain water content in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia. Brain water contents estimated from both relative spin density and relative T1 measurements made in vivo were compared with ex vivo measurements of relative tissue water content based on the wet-dry technique. Correlation coefficients of 0.95 and 0.98 were obtained between the wet-dry measurements and magnetic resonance measurements of T1 and spin density, respectively. Notably, the slope of the relationship between T1 and tissue water content changed dramatically after the injection of a paramagnetic contrast agent while precontrast and postcontrast spin density measurements remained essentially invariant. In addition, a plot of absolute spin density (obtained by normalizing spin density from agar gelatin phantoms of different water contents to the spin density of a sample of 100% water) was linearly related to wet-dry measurements with a slope of 0.99 (R2 = 0.99).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reyzelman, Alexander
AU  - Crews, Ryan T
AU  - Moore, John C
AU  - Moore, Lily
AU  - Mukker, Jagpreet S
AU  - Offutt, Stephen
AU  - Tallis, Arthur
AU  - Turner, William B
AU  - Vayser, Dean
AU  - Winters, Christopher
AU  - Armstrong, David G
TI  - Clinical effectiveness of an acellular dermal regenerative tissue matrix compared to standard wound management in healing diabetic foot ulcers: a prospective, randomised, multicentre study
JO  - International Wound Journal
VL  - 6
IS  - 3
SN  - 1742-4801
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-481X.2009.00585.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1742-481X.2009.00585.x
SP  - 196
EP  - 208
KW  - Acellular regenerative tissue matrix
KW  - Bioengineered matrix
KW  - Diabetes mellitus
KW  - Foot ulcer
KW  - Wound
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract This 12-week, prospective, randomised, controlled multi-centre study compared the proportion of healed diabetic foot ulcers and mean healing time between patients receiving acellular matrix (AM) (study group) and standard of care (control group) therapies. Eighty-six patients were randomised into study (47 patients) and control (39 patients) groups. No significant differences in demographics or pre-treatment ulcer data were calculated. Complete healing and mean healing time were 69·6% and 5·7?weeks, respectively, for the study group and 46·2% and 6·8 weeks, respectively, for the control group. The proportion of healed ulcers between the groups was statistically significant (P?=?0·0289), with odds of healing in the study group 2·7 times higher than in the control group. Kaplan?Meier survivorship analysis for time to complete healing at 12?weeks showed a significantly higher non healing rate (P?=?0·015) for the control group (53·9%) compared with the study group (30·4%). After adjusting for ulcer size at presentation, which was a statistically significant covariate (P?=?0·0194), a statistically significant difference in non healing rate between groups was calculated (P?=?0·0233), with odds of healing 2·0 times higher in the study versus control group. This study supports the use of single-application AM therapy as an effective treatment of diabetic, neuropathic ulcers.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Raval, Jay S.
AU  - Harm, Sarah K.
AU  - Rollins-Raval, Marian A.
AU  - Kiss, Joseph E.
TI  - Seasonal distribution of severe ADAMTS13 deficient idiopathic thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
JO  - Journal of Clinical Apheresis
JA  - J. Clin. Apheresis
VL  - 29
IS  - 2
SN  - 0733-2459
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jca.21300
DO  - doi:10.1002/jca.21300
SP  - 113
EP  - 119
KW  - thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
KW  - TTP
KW  - season
KW  - seasonal
KW  - distribution
PY  - 2014
AB  - Background: Idiopathic thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare yet potentially fatal thrombotic microangiopathy. Severe deficiency of ADAMTS13 activity via autoantibody formation has been associated with idiopathic TTP; however, specific triggers are poorly defined. Previous studies have reported seasonal associations of TTP, with warm-weather seasons appearing to have the strongest predilection. We characterized the seasonal distribution of severe ADAMTS13 deficient idiopathic TTP at our multi-hospital institution. Methods: Apheresis records from 2005?2012 were queried for patients with a clinical diagnosis of TTP, accompanying pre-plasmapheresis ADAMTS13 activity <10%, and no other explanations for thrombotic microangiopathy. Date of admission and ADAMTS13 activity were collected. Both initial episodes and relapses in patients whose initial episodes occurred since 2005 were included in the analysis. Goodness-of-fit chi-square analysis was performed and statistical significance was defined as p<0.05. Results: Of 237 consecutive new patients with a suspected clinical diagnosis of TTP, 73 patients met inclusion criteria and had a total of 110 unique presentations for either initial TTP episodes or TTP relapses. Sixteen patients had 37 relapses of their idiopathic TTP (range 1?7). No statistically significant seasonal or monthly associations were identified with either initial or any TTP episodes. Conclusion: A seasonal association of severe ADAMTS13 deficient idiopathic TTP was not observed. Unknown variables may explain previous observations of seasonal associations of idiopathic TTP in other regions of the United States. Thus, individual institutions should characterize their own seasonal distributions of idiopathic TTP as part of the exploration of possible disease triggers in their respective areas. J. Clin. Apheresis 29:113?119, 2014. ? 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Goldenberg, Neil A.
AU  - Everett, Allen D.
AU  - Graham, David
AU  - Bernard, Timothy J.
AU  - Nowak-Göttl, Ulrike
TI  - Proteomic and other mass spectrometry based “omics” biomarker discovery and validation in pediatric venous thromboembolism and arterial ischemic stroke: Current state, unmet needs, and future directions
JO  - PROTEOMICS – Clinical Applications
JA  - Prot. Clin. Appl.
VL  - 8
IS  - 11-12
SN  - 1862-8346
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/prca.201400062
DO  - doi:10.1002/prca.201400062
SP  - 828
EP  - 836
KW  - Arterial ischemic stroke
KW  - Pediatrics
KW  - Venous thromobemolism
PY  - 2014
AB  - Venous thromboembolism (VTE) and arterial ischemic stroke (AIS) are increasingly-recognized health conditions in children, with both acute and chronic sequelae. Risk factors for, and pathogenesis of, VTE are readily related to three principal factors, consisting of venous stasis, endothelial damage, and the hypercoagulable state (i.e. thrombophilia), termed the triad of Virchow. In children, greater than 90% of VTE are provoked by an overt clinical risk factor, the most common of which is a central venous catheter. Risk factors for childhood-onset (beyond the neonatal period) AIS include sickle cell disease, infection, cerebral arteriopathy, and congenital cardiac disease. In perinatal AIS, risk factors are less well-defined, and have been hypothesized to include maternal-fetal conditions. While some acquired and inherited thrombophilias have been associated with increased risk of incident and/or recurrent VTE and AIS, knowledge of other diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of VTE/AIS in children remains quite limited. To date, very few published studies have employed plasma mass spectrometry-based ?omics? approaches (proteomics, lipidomics or metabolomics). Ongoing and future research efforts involving multicenter prospective study-derived plasma biobanks in pediatric VTE (such as the Kids-DOTT trial) and AIS (including VIPS) along with new multi-omics-compatible sample processing methods offer fertile opportunities for discovery and validation of both novel risk factors and prognostic markers, with great potential to achieve improved prognostic stratification in these diseases.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schiro-Harvey,             K.
AU  - Diamond, R.
AU  - Jones, A.
AU  - Buss, J.
TI  - Relationship of Hypoalbuminemia to Multiple Clinical Factors in Hemodialysis Patients
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 8
IS  - 1
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2004.0085bl.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2004.0085bl.x
SP  - 102
EP  - 103
PY  - 2004
AB  - Research shows that low albumin is correlated with higher morbidity and mortality in the dialysis population. The reasons for this are multi-factorial and may be related to inadequate protein intake, infection and sepsis, inadequate dialysis, or catabolism of uremia. USRDS data show that ESRD Network 16 tends to have lower albumins compared to other ESRD Networks. Objective:? To evaluate albumin status of HD patients at Puget Sound Kidney Centers, Everett, WA (ESRD Network 16) and identify potential factors that may put patients at risk of hypoalbuminemia. Methods:? Clinical and biochemical data were collected for 3 months on 221 HD patients. Data included serum albumin (bromcresol purple), calcium, phosphorus, CO2, Hct, % saturation, ferritin, PTH, BUN, Kt/V, URR, nPCR, hours of HD treatment, interdialytic fluid weight gains, DW changes, incidence of infection and hospitalization, catheter use for dialysis access, presence of diabetes and other co-morbidities, dialyzer reuse, social/psychological status, and use of nutrition supplements. All biochemical data were collected after the longest interdialytic period and analyzed at the same reference laboratory. Data were averaged for each patient for the 3 months and correlations between parameters were determined using Chi-square analysis. Results:? 25% of all patients had albumins <3.2?g/dL (reference range for normal population 3.5?5.0?g/dL). Patients with lower albumins were significantly more likely to have DM (p?<?0.02), use catheters for HD access (p?<?0.001), had infections during the previous month (p?<?0.001), been hospitalized during the previous month (p?<?0.002), have co-morbid issues (p?<?0.001), and use nutrition supplements (p?<?0.002). No other factors were significantly correlated with lower albumin. Conclusion:? Factors other than nutrition seem to be related to hypoalbuminemia. This study has prompted improved protocols for catheter care and use, infection control, and early intervention for nutrition supplement use. Increased screening and monitoring at-risk patients (those with diabetes and other co-morbid conditions) has resulted in improved patient care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Peptan, Ioana A.
AU  - Daw, Joseph
AU  - Hong, Liu
TI  - 126 Adipose tissue engineering by human adipose-derived stromal cell seeded gelatin sponges
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216ad.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216ad.x
SP  - A28
EP  - A48
PY  - 2005
AB  - The large bulk of lost craniofacial soft tissue is mainly adipose tissue. Current surgical approaches following tumor resection and trauma have limitations. Adipose derived-stromal cells (ADSCs), also named as preadipocytes, have been demonstrated to be a good cell candidate for adipose tissue engineering. However, characteristics of scaffold played important role in a successful tissue engineered adipose tissue. Objectives:? The present study is to investigate whether in vitro adipogenesis could be induced both in a monolayer and 3-D by ADSCs. Methods:? Healthy adult ADSCs were isolated by liposuction from fat pads. After discarding the unattached cells, the ADSCs were cultured in DMEM supplemented with 10% FBS and 1% antibiotics until they reached confluence. After trypsinization, ADSCs were subcultured at a density of 105 cells/100?mm-dish as a first passage. The monolayer and 3-D adipogenesis were assessed after seeding 105 ADSCs into each well of 6-well plates and 5???106 ADSCs/ml into biodegradable collagen sponges, respectively, followed by replacement of basic medium with adipogenic one. Results:? In both monolayer and 3-D scaffolds, lipids containing adipocytes were observed 1 week after adipogenic stimulation, and further increased over the time. By contrast, no adipogenesis was observed in ADSCs cultured in basic medium. Conclusions:? Human adipose-derived stromal cells isolated from fat pads can readily be induced toward adipogenesis in vitro. The in vivo adipogenesis potential of ADSCs is being investigated. (Supported by Whitaker Biomedical Engineering Foundation, March of Dimes Foundation)
ER  - 

AU  - Torres, Mercedes
AU  - Moayedi, Siamak
C7  - pp. 139-151
TI  - Dyspnea in the elderly
SN  - 9781118753347
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118753262.ch11
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118753262.ch11
SP  - 139-151
KW  - acute coronary syndrome
KW  - asthma
KW  - atrial fibrillation
KW  - beta-blockers
KW  - chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
KW  - congestive heart failure
KW  - dyspnea
KW  - elderly patient
KW  - pneumonia
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary This chapter presents a case study of 80-year-old woman who presented to the emergency department (ED) with altered mental status. It discusses the acute coronary syndrome (ACS), congestive heart failure (CHF), atrial fibrillation, pneumonia, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and pulmonary embolism. Dyspnea accompanied by diaphoresis, nausea, vomiting, or syncope describes the geriatric patient who may be presenting with ACS. Geriatric patients presenting with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarctions (STEMIs) demonstrate improved outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) versus fibrinolytic treatment. The diagnosis of CHF in elderly patients presenting with dyspnea is often delayed due to atypical symptoms and multiple comorbidities. Beta-blockers are very effective for management of CHF in elderly patients, they are contraindicated in the presence of comorbid pulmonary disease and can cause symptomatic bradycardias and atrioventricular (AV) nodal conduction disorders. Rapid and aggressive therapy must be tempered by patient and family wishes regarding end-of-life care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781118753347
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 971-1053
TI  - Other Bacterial Diseases
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119421481.ch23
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119421481.ch23
SP  - 971-1053
KW  - avian intestinal spirochetosis
KW  - bacterial diseases
KW  -                Erysipelas
KW  - poultry production
KW  -                Staphylococcus
KW  -                Streptococcus
KW  - tuberculosis
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary This chapter includes a collection of miscellaneous organisms that have caused disease in poultry or are a public health concern. The less common pathogens implicated in poultry loss included are Staphylococcosis, Streptococcus and Enterococcus, Erysipelas, avian intestinal spirochetosis, tuberculosis. Disease syndromes included in the chapter include beak necrosis, venereal disease of geese, and liver granulomas, but are not identified to a specific organism responsible because of the multifactorial nature of the disease. Staphylococcosis is diagnosed by culturing suspected clinical material including exudate from joints, yolk material, and stab swabs of internal organs. Staphylococcosis can resemble infection with Escherichia coli, Pasteurella multocida, Salmonella gallinarum, Mycoplasma synoviae, reoviruses, or any other infection of bones or joints that is hatchery-related, associated with mechanical trauma, or causes septicemia. Prevention and control of Enterococcus infections require reducing stress and preventing immunosuppressive diseases and conditions. Proper cleaning and disinfection can reduce environmental enterococcal resident flora to minimize external exposure.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Arend, Jonathan
AU  - Tsang-Quinn, Jenny
AU  - Levine, Claudia
AU  - Thomas, David
TI  - The Patient-Centered Medical Home: History, Components, and Review of the Evidence
JO  - Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine: A Journal of Translational and Personalized Medicine
JA  - Mt Sinai J Med
VL  - 79
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/msj.21326
DO  - doi:10.1002/msj.21326
SP  - 433
EP  - 450
KW  - care coordination
KW  - care management
KW  - chronic care model
KW  - health information technology
KW  - patient-centered medical home
KW  - population management
KW  - quality improvement
KW  - team-based care.
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract The US healthcare system is plagued by unsustainable costs and yields suboptimal outcomes, indicating that new models of healthcare delivery are needed. The patient-centered medical home is one model that is increasingly regarded as a promising strategy for improving healthcare quality, decreasing cost, and enhancing the experience of both patients and providers. Conceptually, the patient-centered medical home may be described as combination of the core attributes of primary care?access, continuity, comprehensiveness, and coordination of care?with new approaches to healthcare delivery, including office practice innovations and reimbursement reform. Implementation efforts are gaining momentum across the country, fueled by both private-payer initiatives as well as supportive public policy. High-quality evidence on the effectiveness of the patient-centered medical home is limited, but the data suggest that, under some circumstances, patient-centered medical home interventions may lead to improved outcomes and generate moderate cost savings. Although the patient-centered medical home enjoys broad support by multiple stakeholders, significant challenges to widespread adoption of the model remain. Mt Sinai J Med 79:433?450, 2012 ? 2012 Mount Sinai School of Medicine
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ogeer-Gyles, J
AU  - Mathews, KA
AU  - Prescott, J
AU  - Boerlin, P
TI  - DEVELOPMENT OF ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE IN ESCHERICHIA COLI FROM DOGS IN THE INTENSIVE CARE UNIT WITH INCREASED DURATION OF STAY
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 14
IS  - S1
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-8-04035.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-8-04035.x
SP  - S1
EP  - S17
PY  - 2004
AB  - Introduction: Antibiotic resistance develops in human patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) with increased duration of stay. The major selection factor is the use of antimicrobial agents. The hypothesis tested in this study was that antimicrobial resistance in fecal E. coli isolated from dogs increased with increased length of stay in the ICU. Methods: E. coli were isolated from rectal swabs collected on days 0 (D0, day of admission to the ICU), 3 (D3), 6 (D6), and 9 (D9) from all dogs housed in the ICU for 3 or more days. The E. coli were tested for resistance to nalidixic acid, enrofloxacin, cephalothin, cefoxitin, cefotaxime, ceftiofur, trimethoprim-sulfa, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, tetracycline, ampicillin and amoxicillin/clavulanate. Thirty-two patients were included in the study, 17 with D0-D3 and 15 with D0-D6 E. coli isolates. Five E. coli strains were isolated each sampling day and tested for antimicrobial susceptibility, resulting in a total of 60 outcomes per day per dog. The proportion of positive outcomes (resistance) was calculated for each day up to D6. Univariate ANOVA analysis was used to analyze the data. Results: The proportion of positive outcomes (resistance) increased from 9.3% on D0 to 14.7% on D3 to 27.9% on D6. Resistance to the frequently used ampicillin increased in a linear manner with increased duration of stay. The proportion of ampicillin-resistant colonies increased from 19.6% on D0 to 39.1% on D3 to 68.7% on D6 (p=0.001). Resistance to the infrequently used amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, also increased significantly (p=0.026) and linearly. The increase in resistance to enrofloxacin was significant (p=0.046); but the increase in resistance to the precursor, nalidixic acid, was highly significant (p=0.020). No change in resistance to gentamicin was found. The remaining antibiotics tested showed an insignificant increase in resistance. Conclusions: Resistance to antibiotics increased in dogs with duration of stay in the ICU for 3 or more days. This linear trend was most significant with penicillin-based beta-lactams, which are frequently used in the ICU. Consequently, critically ill dogs may be at increased risk for developing opportunistic infections, caused by multi-drug resistant organisms.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rocha, Gustavo
AU  - Fernandes, Paula
AU  - Rocha, Paula
AU  - Quintas, Conceição
AU  - Martins, Teresa
AU  - Proença, Elisa
TI  - Pleural effusions in the neonate
JO  - Acta Paediatrica
VL  - 95
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1651-2227.2006.tb02342.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1651-2227.2006.tb02342.x
SP  - 791
EP  - 798
KW  - Chylothorax
KW  - hydrops
KW  - newborn
KW  - pleural effusion
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Introduction: Pleural effusions are rare in the neonate and may be associated to several clinical conditions. Only a few series of pleural effusions in the fetus and newborn are described in the literature. Aim: This study was undertaken to determine more accurately the causes and prognostic significance of pleural effusions in a population of high-risk neonates. Materials and methods: A retrospective chart review of 62 neonates admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit of six medical centers in the north of Portugal, between 1997 and 2004, that presented the diagnosis of pleural effusion. Results: 33M/29F newborns; preterms 47 (76%); GA 33 (25?40) wk; BW 1830 (660?4270) g; C-section 39 (63%). Pleural effusions were congenital in 20 (32%) newborns and acquired in 42 (68%). Congenital pleural effusions occurred as fetal hydrops in 11 (18%) patients and as chylothorax in 9 (15%). In four cases of hydrops, the cause was a congenital chylothorax. Congenital chylothorax (n=13) was the most common (65%) congenital pleural effusion in this study. The incidence of congenital chylothorax was 1:8.600 deliveries and male:female ratio was 2:1. Mortality occurred in five newborns due to pulmonary hypoplasia. Traumatic (iatrogenic) were the most frequent (n=31) acquired pleural effusions. These included 8 (13%) cases of hemothorax and 8 (13%) cases of total parenteral nutrition leakage. Pleural effusions after intra-thoracic surgery were mainly (79%) chylothoraces. There were 11 (26%) non-iatrogenic acquired pleural effusions. No mortality was associated with acquired pleural effusions. Conclusions: Congenital pleural effusions usually occur as hydrops or congenital chylothorax. Traumatic (iatrogenic) are the most frequent acquired pleural effusions in a tertiary NICU. Pleural effusions after intra-thoracic surgery are mainly chylothoraces. Non-iatrogenic acquired pleural effusions are associated to several clinical conditions, and mortality is usually associated to the underlying condition.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ariatti, A
AU  - Galassi, G
AU  - Nichelli, PF
AU  - Barbieri, A
TI  - Abstracts of the 8th Meeting of the Italian Peripheral Nerve Study Group: 60
JO  - Journal of the Peripheral Nervous System
VL  - 8
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1529-8027.2003.00060.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1529-8027.2003.00060.x
SP  - 29
EP  - 58
PY  - 2003
AB  - Brachial amyotrophic diplegia (BAD) is defined the isolated upper limb weakness attributed to neurogenic atrophy, sparing lower extremity, respiratory and bulbar muscles. Although such phenotypes may be seen in number of conditions, previous reports pointed out that the label of BAD should refer to any patient with slowly and nonprogressive neurogenic atrophy of upper limbs remaining stable at least 18 months after initial presentation 50 year old man with unremarkable past history noticed after minor cervical spine trauma progressive weakness and wasting of left shoulder and arm which was followed within few months by gradual involvement of contralateral in relatively symmetric pattern. There were no symptoms in lower limbs, neck, bulbar muscles nor sphincter disturbances. On examination, patient exhibited a peculiar posture of both hands hanging loosely at his sides. There were fasciculations and atrophy of upper limb muscles. Reflexes could not be elicited in upper extremities but they were normal in the lower. Cranial nerves and sensory examination were unremarkable. Routine blood tests and search for GM1 antibodies were negative, whereas CK was found mildly elevated ( 361?mU/ml). Test for HIV-1 was positive with RNA level of 144.920 copies/ml and CD4 count 403/mm3. Electrophysiology showed in both sides low amplitude of compound muscle action potentials, mildly reduced velocity without evidence of conduction block or of temporal dispersion. Sensory conduction study was normal. On EMG, there was loss of motor units, acute and chronic neurogenic changes. Cervical MRI was normal. Patient neurological disability did not show progression. The case reported exhibits the following notable aspects: clinical and electrophysiological abnormalities fully restricted to upper limbs, lack of significant demyelinating features as well as of GM1 antibodies, absence of clinical signs related to immunosuppression due to HIV-1 infection.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Phan, Anita
AU  - IsHak, Waguih William
AU  - Shen, Biing-Jiun
AU  - Fuess, Justin
AU  - Philip, Kiran
AU  - Bresee, Catherine
AU  - Czer, Lawrence
AU  - Schwarz, Ernst R.
TI  - Persistent Sexual Dysfunction Impairs Quality of Life after Cardiac Transplantation
JO  - The Journal of Sexual Medicine
VL  - 7
IS  - 8
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.01854.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.01854.x
SP  - 2765
EP  - 2773
KW  - Sexual Dysfunction
KW  - Heart Transplantation
KW  - Quality of Life
KW  - Physical Health
KW  - Mental Health
KW  - Depression
KW  - Organ Transplant Recipient
KW  - Sexual Function
PY  - 2010
AB  - ABSTRACT Introduction.? The impact of sexual dysfunction (SD) on mental and physical health after heart transplantation (HTx) has not been established. Aim.? We investigated the relationship of SD on quality of life (QoL), physical and mental health, and depressive symptoms after HTx. Main Outcome Measures.? We evaluated SD according to the International Index of Erectile Dysfunction and the Female Sexual Function Index. QoL, physical and mental health were assessed using: 1) Short Form 12 Health Survey Questionnaire, 2) Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire?Short Form, and two depressive symptoms questionnaires: 1) Beck Depression Inventory-II and 2) Quick Inventory Depressive Symptomatology-Self Report. Methods.? We enrolled patients who were greater than 6 months post HTx. Patients unable to read English, had pelvic surgery or trauma, urogenital abnormalities, or sexually inactive were excluded. Results.? Out of 79 subjects that were screened, 33 men and 6 women participated (mean age 61.4?+?11.4). Response rates were at least 82% for all questionnaires. Overall prevalence of SD was 61%, with 78% of men being affected and 50% of women. There was no significant difference in measures between genders. HTx recipients with SD reported significantly worse QoL on measures of physical health when compared to those without SD. After HTx, patients suffering from SD had significantly worse general health (P?=?0.02) and physical health (P?=?0.02), including physical functioning (P?=?0.01) and physical role limitation (P?=?0.01). In contrast, mental health and depressive symptoms after HTx were not significantly different between those with and without SD. Conclusions.? After HTx a high prevalence of SD remains among both men and women. Patients with SD had worse general and physical health but not depressive symptoms when compared to those without SD. The contributing factors may be more related to physical rather than psychological causes. Phan A, IsHak WW, Shen B-J, Fuess J, Philip K, Bresee C, Czer L, and Schwarz ER. Persistent sexual dysfunction impairs quality of life after cardiac transplantation. J Sex Med 2010;7:2765?2773.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - O, Odette
AU  - Smith, Lesley J.
TI  - A comparison of epidural analgesia provided by bupivacaine alone, bupivacaine + morphine, or bupivacaine + dexmedetomidine for pelvic orthopedic surgery in dogs
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 40
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12050
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12050
SP  - 527
EP  - 536
KW  - analgesia
KW  - bupivacaine
KW  - dexmedetomidine
KW  - dog
KW  - epidural
KW  - morphine
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Objective To compare the analgesic efficacy of bupivacaine, bupivacaine + morphine, or bupivacaine + dexmedetomidine administered epidurally in dogs undergoing pelvic limb orthopedic surgery. Study design Prospective, randomized, double blinded clinical trial. Animals Sixty dogs weighing (mean ± SD) 35 ± 15.7 kg, aged 5 ± 3 years. Methods Dogs were assigned to receive a lumbosacral epidural containing bupivacaine (B) 0.5%, 1 mg kg?1; B, bupivacaine 0.5%, 1 mg kg?1 + morphine 1%, 0.1 mg kg?1; B + M, or bupivacaine 0.5%, 1 mg kg?1 + dexmedetomidine 0.05%, 4 ?g kg?1; B + D. The anesthetic protocol was standardized. The median expired isoflurane concentration (E?Iso) and requirement for additional induction agent preventing purposeful movement were recorded. Pain was scored using visual analog (VAS) and modified University of Melbourne (UMPS) pain scales. Sedation was assessed using a 0?4 scale. All parameters were recorded preoperatively, and at extubation (t = 0), then at 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20?24 hours. Hydromorphone was administered postoperatively to patients with a VAS ≥ 35 and/or UMPS ≥ 9. Time to first voluntary urination and first motor activity were recorded. Results Postoperatively, B + D had a lower UMPS pain score than B at t = 1 hour (p = 0.013), but not compared to B + M. The B + D group had a shorter time to urination (p = 0.0131) and a longer time for return of motor function (p = 0.0068). There were no other differences between the treatments. Conclusion and clinical relevance Epidurally administered B, B + M, or B + D in dogs all provided acceptable analgesia to manage post-operative orthopedic pelvic limb pain. Epidural administration of B + D is an effective alternative to the analgesia provided by B or B + M, but is associated with increased time to return of motor function. The direct neurotoxic effects of epidural dexmedetomidine have not been fully tested.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schefft, Matthew R.
AU  - Swaffar, Caitlan
AU  - Newlin, Jennifer
AU  - Noda, Cady
AU  - Sisler, India
C7  - e27274
TI  - A novel approach to reducing admissions for children with sickle cell disease in pain crisis through individualization and standardization in the emergency department
JO  - Pediatric Blood & Cancer
JA  - Pediatr Blood Cancer
VL  - 65
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pbc.27274
DO  - doi:10.1002/pbc.27274
SP  - e27274
KW  - admission
KW  - individualized pain plan
KW  - sickle cell disease
KW  - vaso-occlusive crisis
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Background Vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) is frequent in children with sickle cell disease (SCD) creating significant burden on patients, families, and emergency departments (ED). The objective of the project was to reduce the admission rate for children with SCD presenting to our ED with VOC by >20% within 6 months of initiating individualized pain plans (IPP). Methods A multi-disciplinary quality improvement team was assembled. A Plan-Do-Study-Act (PDSA) format was employed. The IPP document was created in a unique folder within the electronic medical record. IPPs were created through retrospective chart review for our 80 highest resource users. Pediatric residents, ED residents, and ED attending physicians were instructed on use of the IPPs. Our study measured the presence of an IPP, adherence to the IPP, and time to opiate administration. Our primary outcome was admission rate. Length of stay and 72-hr return to the ED were assessed as balancing measures. Results Overall, admission rate decreased by 24% following implementation compared with the previous 5 years (P = 0.046). IPPs were created for 78% of patients and followed by ED staff in 86% of visits. Admission rate was significantly lower for patients receiving a second opiate dose within 45 min of the first dose (P < 0.01). There was no difference in readmission rate or 72-hr return rate to ED. Conclusions This study presents an effective strategy to reduce admission rate for children with SCD presenting with VOC. Shorter time to second opiate dosing was also associated with reduced risk of admission.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Penninx, Brenda W.J.H.
AU  - Beekman, Aartjan T.F.
AU  - Smit, Johannes H.
AU  - Zitman, Frans G.
AU  - Nolen, Willem A.
AU  - Spinhoven, Philip
AU  - Cuijpers, Pim
AU  - De Jong, Peter J.
AU  - Van Marwijk, Harm W.J.
AU  - Assendelft, Willem J.J.
AU  - Van Der Meer, Klaas
AU  - Verhaak, Peter
AU  - Wensing, Michel
AU  - De Graaf, Ron
AU  - Hoogendijk, Witte J.
AU  - Ormel, Johan
AU  - Van Dyck, Richard
TI  - The Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety (NESDA): rationale, objectives and methods
JO  - International Journal of Methods in Psychiatric Research
JA  - Int. J. Methods Psychiatr. Res.
VL  - 17
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mpr.256
DO  - doi:10.1002/mpr.256
SP  - 121
EP  - 140
KW  - depressive disorder
KW  - anxiety disorder
KW  - course
KW  - epidemiology
KW  - longitudinal studies
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract The Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety (NESDA) is a multi-site naturalistic cohort study to: (1) describe the long-term course and consequences of depressive and anxiety disorders, and (2) to integrate biological and psychosocial research paradigms within an epidemiological approach in order to examine (interaction between) predictors of the long-term course and consequences. Its design is an eight-year longitudinal cohort study among 2981 participants aged 18 through 65 years. The sample consists of 1701 persons with a current (six-month recency) diagnosis of depression and/or anxiety disorder, 907 persons with life-time diagnoses or at risk because of a family history or subthreshold depressive or anxiety symptoms, and 373 healthy controls. Recruitment took place in the general population, in general practices (through a three-stage screening procedure), and in mental health organizations in order to recruit persons reflecting various settings and developmental stages of psychopathology. During a four-hour baseline assessment including written questionnaires, interviews, a medical examination, a cognitive computer task and collection of blood and saliva samples, extensive information was gathered about key (mental) health outcomes and demographic, psychosocial, clinical, biological and genetic determinants. Detailed assessments will be repeated after one, two, four and eight years of follow-up. The findings of NESDA are expected to provide more detailed insight into (predictors of) the long-term course of depressive and anxiety disorders in adults. Besides its scientific relevance, this may contribute to more effective prevention and treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders. Copyright ? 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Paul, AL
AU  - Shaw, SP
AU  - Rozanski, EA
TI  - HOSPITAL PERSONNEL'S PERCEPTION AND KNOWLEDGE OF HOSPITAL ACQUIRED INFECTION CONTROL
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 14
IS  - S1
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-10-04035.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-10-04035.x
SP  - S1
EP  - S17
PY  - 2004
AB  - Hospital acquired infections (HAI) are a major source of morbidity and mortality in human and veterinary hospitals. Research in human hospitals has shown that well focused staff education is an important step in limiting the development of HAI. Our hospital currently has no training program with respect to HAI. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the general knowledge of hospital staff concerning HAI as the first step in developing a hospital wide education program. Ninety doctors and technicians were given a questionnaire containing 15 questions about HAI. The questionnaires were hand distributed and immediately completed. Ten of the questions tested knowledge of HAI, while five questions concerned the individual's perception of HAI in our hospital. Answers were given as a range from strongly agree to strongly disagree or in the form of multiple choice. With respect to their perception of HAI, 66% of technicians and 50% of doctors believed that they possess a good working knowledge of HAI. Several areas for improvement in hospital staff knowledge were identified. Technicians were more likely than doctors to incorrectly believe that 1) routine environmental cultures are effective at preventing HAI (percent correct answer: technicians 30%, doctors 52%), 2) that all animals that aspirated gastric contents under anesthesia develop clinical evidence of pneumonia (percent correct answer: technicians 55%, doctors 84%), and 3) that animals with an indwelling urinary catheter should be treated with prophylactic antibiotics (percent correct answer: technicians 51%, doctors 90%). In addition, doctors were more likely to identify Amikacin as the antibiotic of choice for patients with HAI in our hospital (percent correct answer: technicians 27%, doctors 79%). Neither group was able to adequately identify the patients in the ICU as the primary reservoir for the multi-drug resistant pathogens that cause HAI (percent correct answer: technicians 20%, doctors 15%). The discrepancy in knowledge between the two groups is likely explained by attendance of faculty, residents, and interns at one or more continuing education rounds sessions where HAI were discussed. This finding is contrary to what is frequently found in human hospitals where the nursing staff typically demonstrates superior knowledge of HAI when compared to doctors. The results of this study demonstrate that knowledge of HAI is not optimal in both the doctors and technicians in our hospital. Further better focused efforts are warranted to address the educational shortcomings evidenced by this study.
ER  - 
