
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cigna, Emanuele
AU  - Fino, Pasquale
AU  - Onesti, Maria G
AU  - Amorosi, Vittoria
AU  - Scuderi, Nicolò
TI  - Diabetic foot infection treatment and care
JO  - International Wound Journal
JA  - Int Wound J
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 1742-4801
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/iwj.12277
DO  - doi:10.1111/iwj.12277
SP  - 238
EP  - 242
KW  - DFI
KW  - DFUs
KW  - Diabetic foot infection
KW  - Diabetic foot treatment protocol
KW  - Diabetic foot ulcers
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Foot infections in diabetic patients are a common, complex and costly problem. They are potentially adverse with progression to deeper spaces and tissues and are associated with severe complications. The management of diabetic foot infection (DFI) requires a prompt and systematic approach to achieve more successful outcomes and to ultimately avoid amputations. This study reviews a multi-step treatment for DFIs. Between September 2010 and September 2012, a total of about 37 patients were consulted for DFI. The treatment algorithm included four steps, that is, several types of debridement according to the type of wound, the application of negative pressure therapy (NPT), other advanced dressings, a targeted antibiotic therapy local or systemic as the case may, and, if necessary, reconstructive surgery. This treatment protocol showed excellent outcomes, allowing us to avoid amputation in most difficult cases. Only about 8% of patients require amputation. This treatment protocol and a multidisciplinary approach with a specialised team produced excellent results in the treatment of DFI and in the management of diabetic foot in general, allowing us to improve the quality of life of diabetic patients and also to ensure cost savings.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pusterla, N.
AU  - Gebhart, C. J.
TI  - Equine proliferative enteropathy – a review of recent developments
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 45
IS  - 4
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12075
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12075
SP  - 403
EP  - 409
KW  - horse
KW  - Lawsonia intracellularis
KW  - equine proliferative enteropathy
KW  - pathophysiology
KW  - clinical management
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary Equine proliferative enteropathy (EPE) is a disease of foals caused by the obligate intracellular organism Lawsonia intracellularis. This emerging disease affects mainly weanling foals and causes fever, lethargy, peripheral oedema, diarrhoea, colic and weight loss. The diagnosis of EPE may be challenging and relies on the presence of hypoproteinaemia, thickening of segments of the small intestinal wall observed upon abdominal ultrasonography, positive serology and molecular detection of L.?intracellularis in faeces. Although the clinical entity, diagnostic approach and treatment of EPE are well established and described, the epidemiology for this disease has remained largely unaddressed. This article focuses on new developments in the field of EPE, including epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical signs, diagnosis, treatment and prevention. The Summary is available in Chinese ? see Supporting information.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - McClave, Stephen A.
AU  - Martindale, Robert G.
AU  - Vanek, Vincent W.
AU  - McCarthy, Mary
AU  - Roberts, Pamela
AU  - Taylor, Beth
AU  - Ochoa, Juan B.
AU  - Napolitano, Lena
AU  - Cresci, Gail
AU  - the A.S.P.E.N. Board of Directors
AU  - the American College of Critical Care Medicine
TI  - Guidelines for the Provision and Assessment of Nutrition Support Therapy in the Adult Critically Ill Patient:
JO  - Journal of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition
JA  - JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr
VL  - 33
IS  - 3
SN  - 0148-6071
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1177/0148607109335234
DO  - doi:10.1177/0148607109335234
SP  - 277
EP  - 316
PY  - 2009
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Madsen, Steen J.
AU  - Sun, Chung-Ho
AU  - Tromberg, Bruce J.
AU  - Hirschberg, Henry
TI  - Development of a novel indwelling balloon applicator for optimizing light delivery in photodynamic therapy
JO  - Lasers in Surgery and Medicine
JA  - Lasers Surg. Med.
VL  - 29
IS  - 5
SN  - 0196-8092
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/lsm.10005
DO  - doi:10.1002/lsm.10005
SP  - 406
EP  - 412
KW  - ALA
KW  - fluence rate
KW  - fractionated PDT
KW  - glioblastoma multiforme
KW  - glioma spheroids
PY  - 2001
AB  - Abstract Background and Objective A human glioma spheroid model is used to investigate the efficacy of different light delivery schemes in 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA)?mediated photodynamic therapy (PDT). The results provide the rationale for the development of an indwelling balloon applicator for optimizing light delivery. Study Design/Materials and Methods Human glioma spheroids were incubated in ALA (100 or 1000 ?g ml?1) for 4 hours and subjected to various light irradiation schemes. In one set of experiments, spheroid survival was monitored as a function of light fluence rate (5?200 mW cm?2). In all cases, spheroids were exposed to fluences of either 25 or 50 J cm?2. In a second study, the effects of repeated weekly PDT treatments, using sub-threshold fluences, were investigated. One group of spheroids was subjected to three treatments using fluences of 12, 12, and 25 J cm?2. Results were compared to spheroids receiving single treatments of either 12 or 25 J cm?2. A fluence rate of 25 mW cm?2 was used for all three groups of spheroids. In all cases, the effect of a given irradiation scheme was evaluated by monitoring spheroid growth. Results Low fluence rates produce greater cell kill than high fluence rates. The minimum effective fluence rate in human glioma spheroids is approximately 10 mW cm?2. Repeated weekly PDT treatments with sub-threshold fluences result in significant cell kill. In spheroids surviving the PDT treatments, growth is suppressed for the duration of the treatment period. Conclusion The results of the in vitro studies support the development of an indwelling balloon applicator for the delivery of light doses in long term multi-fractionated PDT regimens. Lasers Surg. Med. 29:406?412, 2001. ? 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

AU  - Mercer, Roxanne
AU  - Wilkinson, David S.
C7  - pp. 71-83
TI  - Current Challenges to Financial Stability within the Diagnostic Laboratory
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1128/9781555817282.ch4
DO  - doi:10.1128/9781555817282.ch4
SP  - 71-83
KW  - diagnostic laboratory
KW  - financial stability
KW  - generational diversity
KW  - medicare program
KW  - on-the-job training program
KW  - shrinking reimbursement
KW  - unfunded mandate
KW  - work flow
KW  - workforce resource
PY  - 2001
AB  - Summary The economics of healthcare today challenge clinical laboratories nationwide to provide quality service and patient results in spite of decreasing resources. Decreasing reimbursement for patient testing and dwindling staff resources require the laboratorian to ?do more with less.? One must be aware of one's professional environment and be creative to utilize the existing resources effectively and efficiently. In many cases, this will require a laboratory environment of constant and major change. This chapter addresses some of these issues and their financial implications. Automation, computerization, point-of- care testing (POCT), and robotics will allow a more integrated, systemwide approach to providing high-quality laboratory services in support of patient care. Laboratory networks and multi-hospital systems may achieve economies of scale. There has been a steady increase in regulatory control of the healthcare industry by both federal and state governments. This increase in regulation extends to all clinical laboratories supporting both inpatients and outpatients. Government compliance regulations as well as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) rules have resulted in unplanned expenses for clinical laboratories and hospitals to modify existing computer systems and even add personnel to help meet the regulations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Beckert, S
AU  - R. Aslam
AU  - F. Farrahi
AU  - H. Scheuenstuhl
AU  - H. Hopf
AU  - A. Königsrainer
AU  - T.K. Hunt
TI  - 104 Hyperbaric oxygen enhances wound lactate production in rats
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216h.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216h.x
SP  - A28
EP  - A48
PY  - 2005
AB  - Introduction:? Healing wounds are characterized by high lactate levels. In the past, the shift to an anaerobic energy metabolism was thought to be the main source for increased lactate concentration. Lactate is also generated by leukocytic NADPH-linked oxygenase using oxygen and glucose as one of its substrates, a mechanism called aerobic glycolysis. We hypothesize that hyperbaric oxygen therapy by increasing oxygen availability enhances wound lactate production by aerobic glycolysis. Material and methods:? Four wire mesh wound cylinders (n?=?142) were implanted underneath the dorsal skin in each of 36 male Sprague-Dawley rats (312?±?11?g). Animals were randomized to two groups: The first group (n?=?18) received 100% oxygen with 2.1 ATA for 90 minutes twice a day for a total of 7 days. The second group (n?=?18) was treated with 21% oxygen with 1 ATA for the same time schedule. Hyperbaric treatments were administered in a hyperbaric chamber designed for small animals. Wound fluid from the cylinders was aspirated between the two treatment cycles at day 2 and 5 and analysed for lactate using a lactate analyser. Additionally, at day 10 (after 2 days of treatment with 21% oxygen in 1 ATA in both groups) lactate concentrations in wound fluid were measured again. Data are expressed as mean?±?SD. A p-value <0.05 was considered significant. Results:? Wound lactate concentration was significantly increased both in control and hyperbaric rats at day 5 and day 10 compared to day 2 (controls 4.5?±?1, 5.9?±?0.8, 6.7?±?1.2?mmol/l; p?=?0.04 and hyperbarics 4.4?±?1.2, 6.5?±?1.3, 8.2?±?1.3?mmol/l; p?=?0.01). At day 2 and day 5 there was no significant difference in lactate levels between control and hyperbaric rats. However, at day 10 lactate concentration was significantly higher in the hyperbaric group compared to the control group (6.7?±?1.2 vs. 8.2?±?1.3?mmol/l; p?=?0.01). Conclusion:? This investigation provides evidence for the mechanism of hyperbaric oxygen action since lactate is known to stimulate collagen production and angiogenesis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Grimaldi, Maurizio
TI  - Astrocytes refill intracellular Ca2+ stores in the absence of cytoplasmic [Ca2+] elevation: A functional rather than a structural ability
JO  - Journal of Neuroscience Research
JA  - J. Neurosci. Res.
VL  - 84
IS  - 8
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jnr.21064
DO  - doi:10.1002/jnr.21064
SP  - 1738
EP  - 1749
KW  - astrocyte
KW  - capacitative Ca2+ entry
KW  - smooth endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase
KW  - store depletion-operated Ca2+ channels
KW  - endoplasmic reticulum
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Capacitative Ca2+ entry (CCE) is a phenomenon triggered by depletion of Ca2+ content in intracellular stores (ICS). Data about this phenomenon in astrocytes are limited. We analyzed CCE in astrocytes by means of fura-2 based digital imaging. We found that in astrocytes CCE is not associated with an increase of cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), although ICS are efficiently refilled. We used Mn2+, thapsigargin and prolonged ATP exposure to show that CCE is not associated with cytosolic diffusion of Ca2+ entering astrocytes. Our data suggest that the ion is being quickly sequestered in the ICS by the smooth endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATP-ase (SERCA). Several experiments were carried out with the goal of failing the efficient uptake in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In fact, inhibition of SERCA activity, increased extracellular [Ca2+]i or pharmacologic potentiation of CCE all caused [Ca2+]i elevation during CCE, suggesting that the control of this phenomenon could have physiologic and pathological relevance. The molecular components involved in CCE have been proposed to be organized in a multi-molecular complex tethered by cytoskeleton components and arranged via a secretion coupling model. We show here that the efficient routing of Ca2+ into the ICS in astrocytes is not affected by disruption of cytoskeleton organization or Golgi's function, but it is instead linked to the high efficiency of SERCA. We conclude that depleted ICS in astrocytes are efficiently refilled by CCE activation, although Ca2+ influx is not accompanied by elevation of [Ca2+]i. This ability seems to be functional rather than structural in nature. ? 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - König, Maya
AU  - Nentwig, Alice
AU  - Marti, Eliane
AU  - Mirkovitch, Jelena
AU  - Adamik, Katja-Nicole
AU  - Schuller, Simone
TI  - Evaluation of plasma angiopoietin-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor in healthy dogs and dogs with systemic inflammatory response syndrome or sepsis
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine
JA  - J Vet Intern Med
VL  - 33
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jvim.15369
DO  - doi:10.1111/jvim.15369
SP  - 569
EP  - 577
KW  - APPLEfast score
KW  - biomarker
KW  - canine
KW  - inflammation
KW  - outcome
KW  - prognostic
PY  - 2019
AB  - Background Angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) are regulators of endothelial permeability. Objective Plasma concentrations of Ang-2 and VEGF are increased in dogs with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and sepsis and are correlated with disease severity and outcome. Animals Healthy dogs (n?=?18) and client-owned dogs with SIRS (n?=?34) or sepsis (n?=?25). Methods Prospective observational study. Ang-2 and VEGF concentrations in admission plasma samples were compared between healthy dogs and dogs with SIRS or sepsis, and between survivors and non-survivors. Correlations with the acute patient physiologic and laboratory evaluation (APPLEfast) disease severity score were examined. Results Median Ang-2 was significantly higher in dogs with SIRS (19.3; interquartile range [IQR]: 8.6-25.7?ng/mL) and sepsis (21.2; IQR: 10.3-30.1?ng/mL) compared to healthy dogs (7.6; IQR: 6.7-9.8?ng/mL). Ang-2 was significantly higher in non-survivors (24.1; IQR: 11.9-50.0?ng/mL) than survivors (10.2; IQR: 7.2-21.5?ng/mL) but did not correlate with the APPLEfast score. Admission Ang-2 predicted negative outcome in dogs with SIRS and sepsis with reasonable accuracy (area under the curve [AUC]: 0.75, confidence interval [CI]: 0.59-0.85; sensitivity: 0.5, CI: 0.29-0.71; specificity: 0.87, CI: 0.75-0.95); differentiation between sepsis and SIRS was poor (AUC: 0.58). Plasma VEGF was significantly higher in dogs with sepsis (45; IQR: 14-107.5?pg/mL) than in dogs with SIRS (3.3; IQR: 0-35.6?pg/mL) or healthy dogs (0; IQR: 0?pg/mL; P =?0.008). VEGF was significantly (P =?.0004) higher in non-survivors (34.5; IQR: 0-105.7?pg/mL) than in survivors (0; IQR: 0-55.2?pg/mL). The ability of VEGF to predict a negative outcome was poor. Conclusions and Clinical Importance Ang-2 may represent a useful additional prognostic marker in dogs with SIRS.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Nursing/Psychosocial/Health Services
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
SP  - 14
EP  - 23
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Melanie A. Adams, 1 Bradley V. Vaughn, and 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh ( 1 Dept. of Neurology, Univ. of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Seizure control in epilepsy has been thought to be the primary goal for both patients and clinicians. However, practitioners may not be fully aware of what goals epilepsy patients truly wish to attain. We surveyed epilepsy patients in our clinic and asked them to list their primary goal for treatment of their epilepsy. We also considered how treatment regimen and seizure frequency may influence a patient's goals. Methods: We surveyed 48 patients in our Epilepsy Clinic at the University of North Carolina and asked them to list their primary goal for their epilepsy treatment, the number of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) they used, and their seizure frequency. Results: Forty-eight patients with a mean age of 41.3 years completed the survey and 32 were female. The subjects averaged taking 2 antiepileptic drugs and had an average seizure frequency of one seizure per month. We grouped the patients by number of AEDs used and seizure frequency. We found that patients who were using two or more antiepileptic drugs were more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 19% of patients taking one AED listed seizure control as their primary goal, but 75% of patients taking two AEDs listed seizure control as their goal and 93% of patients taking three AEDs listed seizure control as their goal. Additionally, patients that had a higher seizure frequency were also more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. When looking at seizure frequency, 69% of patients who had more frequent seizures (seizures occurring at least once per month) listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. All of the patients (n = 4) who had more than one seizure per week, but less than one seizure per day, listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 40% of patients who had been seizure-free for one year or longer listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. Conclusions: In our study we found that most of our epilepsy patients listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. However, we found that patients who were taking more antiepileptic medications and had a higher seizure frequency were most likely to list seizure control as their primary goal. This may indicate that patients are willing to use more than one AED for seizure control despite the risk of an increase in side effects from the combination of medications. Additionally, we found that patients who were using one AED and had fewer seizures were least likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. This highlights the importance of communication between patients who have seizures and the practitioners who treat them to establish a treatment plan that can insure compliance from the patient, especially if the patient has refractory seizures. 1 Marlene Blackman, 1,2 Elaine Wirrell, and 1,2 Lorie Hamiwka ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy have greater behavior problems than healthy controls. Both intractability and mental handicap predict greater risk. Methods: Cohort study of 58 children aged 4?17 years with epilepsy attending a tertiary care pediatric neurology clinic. Parent-completed Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) subscores were compared between children with and without refractory epilepsy (defined as failure of >2 AEDs and seizures ≥ q3monthly over the past year) and with and without mental handicap using the Mann-Whitney U test. Results: 58 children were surveyed, 21 with refractory epilepsy (4 normal cognition, 17 mental handicap) and 37 with non-refractory epilepsy (22 normal cognition, 15 mental handicap). Groups did not differ significantly with respect to age or gender. Those with refractory epilepsy scored significantly higher (more abnormal) on the Social Problems (p < 0.05) and Attention Problems (p < 0.02) subscales of the CBCL. Those with mental handicap scored significantly higher on the Withdrawn (p < 0.001), Social Problems (p < 0.00001), Thought Problems (p < 0.00005), Attention Problems (p < 0.00001) and Aggressive Behavior (p < 0.02) subscales. Conclusions: While children with refractory epilepsy have greater behavior problems as indicated by the Social Problems and Attention Problems subscales, co-morbid cognitive impairment appears to be even more predictive of poor behavioral outcome in children with epilepsy. 1 Janice M. Buelow, 1 Joan K. Austin, 1 Angela M. McNelis, and 1 Cheryl P. Shore ( 1 School of Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Parents of children with epilepsy and Intellectual Disability (ID) report that their children have significant behavior problems. Past research shows that the level of family stress and child behavior problems are related, however the nature of this relationship is not well understood. In order to better understand the complex interaction of family stress and child behavior problems, this study describes the behavior problems of children with epilepsy and ID and parental perception of their child's behavior problems. Methods: Qualitative naturalistic inquiry was used to describe naturally occurring phenomena. Participants were 20 parents of children (9?16 years, mean = 12.2) who had at least two seizures a year or were on anti-epilepsy medications, and had an IQ between 55 and 75. Open-ended interviews were conducted with parents to explore the problems they experienced while raising their children. Interviews lasted about 1 hour, were tape recorded and transcribed verbatim. Each interview was analyzed for within-case themes. After interviews were analyzed individually, themes were compared across cases to identify commonalities. Two researchers reviewed each interview and agreement was reached on themes Results: The most common problem behaviors were: (1) attention problems, (2) inappropriate behavior in public including temper tantrums, (3) poor socialization skills including inability to make friends, and (4) violent behavior including injuries to self and others. Parent themes regarding behavior were (1) I recognize and can manage my child's behavior, (2) my child's behaviors are just part of life, (3) my child's behaviors problems are because of others' actions and (4) my child's behavior problems are a result of seizures. Only one family out of 20 stated that there were no behavior problems. Conclusions: This study describes specific behavior problems that children experience and parental perceptions regarding the behavior. Child behaviors ranged from attention problems to violent behavior and family themes ranged from recognition of the problem to blaming the problem on outside events. Future studies should address the underlying causes of the behavior problems in these children with the goal of intervening to reduce or eliminate these problem areas. In addition, clinicians should be assessing for behavior problems in children with epilepsy and low IQ. (Supported by NR 04536 and NR 005035v 1 Kami D. Clark, 1 Steve S. Chung, and 1 David M. Treiman ( 1 Epilepsy Program, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: The number of medication and treatment options for the 2.3 million epilepsy patients in the U.S. in increasing. Understanding treatment regimens including medications and diagnostic testing is crucial for epilepsy patients. In addition, accurately conveying information concerning adverse effects of antiepileptic medications is critical. A lack of understanding or education may adversely effect medication compliance and treatment efficacy. Returning the phone calls of patients with questions is an important but often a time-consuming and costly task for healthcare providers. We analyzed patient care related phone calls to try to identify ways in which patient education could be improved. Therefore, reducing the frequency of phone queries from patients. Methods: We evaluated all patient care related phone calls received by the epilepsy nurse practitioner in the Barrow Neurological Institute Adult Epilepsy Clinic from December 2004 through April 2005. A total of 209 calls were evaluated. These calls excluded patients calling to request medication refills or appointments, and any call not placed by an epilepsy patient or his/her caregiver. Results: The 209 patient phone calls were divided into eight categories. Medication related questions accounted for 34.4% (72) of all calls. Reporting breakthrough seizures, 32.5% (68), queries regarding lab/test results, 8.6% (18), work/disability issues, 8.2% (17), other health related questions, 8.2% (17), OTC medication questions, 4.8% (10), other epilepsy treatment options, 1.9% (4), and 1.4% (3) called the clinic to report doing well. We reviewed common questions of epilepsy patients who call the epilepsy clinic so that we may redirect education efforts. The most common call received was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects, new onset of symptoms, and medication titration and weaning schedules. Although, initial in-office medication education and written titration schedules were provided for all these patients, almost thirty five percent required additional education or clarification via time consuming telephone conversations. Conclusions: The most common call received to our clinic was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects (44) and verifying medication titration and weaning schedules (28). In order to optimize patient care and patient empowerment, our study indicates that the development of clearly written medication side effect profiles and medication titration and weaning schedules may improve patient care and reduce incoming phone calls. 1 B. M. Corbett, 1 S. L. Hanson, 1 N. F. Lendzion, 1 T. B. Pipe, 1 J. J. Bortz, 1 J. F. Drazkowski, 1 J. I. Sirven, 1 L. C. Helepololei, 1 J. M. Muccioli, 1 L. M. Tapsell, 1 L. M. Autry, 1 D. L. Shulman, 1 J. K. Gerke, and 1 R. S. Zimmerman ( 1 5 West, Mayo Clinic Hospital, Scottsdale, AZ ) Rationale: At MCH, a select number of patients with medically intractable seizures undergo diagnostic admissions involving subtraction ictal SPECT co-registered to MRI (SISCOM). The timeliness and efficiency of radioisotope injection is crucial to the potential identification of epileptogenic foci. The optimum results yielded by this procedure requires timing of radioisotope injection to be as close to seizure onset as possible. However, little is known about factors that facilitate or hinder the efficiency of ictal injections. Our pilot study is an important first step in gathering objective data regarding facilitators and barriers to efficient radioisotope administration. Methods: A focus-group questionnaire was distributed to the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit (EMU) nursing staff in order to identify key factors related to injection response time. From this data, an item checklist was derived and subsequently used to evaluate a retrospective series of 16 consecutive radioisotope injections. Eight of these cases fell within 60 seconds of seizure onset. Eight injections occurred after the 60-second cutoff. Videotapes of each injection were independently reviewed by raters blind to response time. Results: Results revealed timing efficiency was significantly related to a higher number of staff assisting in the procedure (?2= 11.20, p = .01). Although not statistically significant, a trend regarding an inverse relationship between gloving time and injection efficiency was evidenced. Other variables, including patient responsiveness, amount of environmental clutter, and the number of SISCOM patients on the unit were not related to time between seizure onset and injection. Conclusions: This pilot study is part of a broader investigation that includes prospective data derived from a larger group of study patients. Initial results identified a positive relationship between the number of staff available to assist in the procedure and the timing efficiency of SISCOM injections. These data may reflect several factors, including 1) efficacy of teamwork required to stabilize and prepare patients for injection and 2) increased consensus regarding the appropriateness of injection. The data also suggests gloving in advance, rather than at the time of seizure onset, facilitates speed of injection. Finally, these data may have important implications in the evaluation of acuity and staffing levels for patients undergoing ictal SPECT studies. 1 Sandra M. Cushner-Weinstein, 1 Leslie Bethke-Pope, 2 Jay Salpekar, 1 William D. Gaillard, 1 Phillip L. Pearl, 1 Marian Kolodgie, 1 Audrey Scully, 1 Joan Conry, and 1 Steve L. Weinstein ( 1 Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, George Washington University, Washington, DC ; and 2 Psychiatry, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Camps developed for children with epilepsy were questioned to evaluate change in design, goals, and programs from the years 2001 to 2005. The expectation was to find an increase in condition specific camps, common identified goals, and the number of individuals with epilepsy in leadership roles. Camps were compared for similarities and differences. Methods: In 2001, thirty-one camps for children with epilepsy received telephone interviews comprised of thirty-eight questions. In 2005, twenty-five camps for children with epilepsy received a questionnaire by mail or e-mail and phone contact for clarification. The thirty-eight questions in 2001 were reduced to twenty questions in 2005, based on the original questions and answers. Included in the questions were camp designs, goals, composition and age of campers, schedules, opportunities for camper advancement, return rates, percentage of staff with epilepsy, co-morbidities, and staff to camper ratio. Results: From 2001 to 2005, three primary designs of camps continue to exist with a shift towards condition specific camps. The designs include camps for children diagnosed with epilepsy, for family member(s) and campers with epilepsy, and integrated or mainstream camps. Over four years, the number of camps increased serving children with epilepsy only, 54% (2001) to 60% (2005), and serving children with epilepsy and family members, 3% (2001) to 24% (2005). Also a decrease in the number of integrated camps from 19% (2001) to 16% (2005) was found. Other findings include in 2001, 50% of the camps did not have counselors with epilepsy while in 2005, 65% did; however, 20% had less than 10% of counselors with epilepsy. Only 52% of camps in 2001 offered opportunities for campers to advance to leadership roles (counselors in training or assistants) and there was an increase (64%) in 2005. Also in 2005, 65% of the camps selected socialization, independence, and self-esteem as their top three camper benefits and goals, while in 2001, less than 35% of the camps identified socialization and self-esteem as benefits or goals. Conclusions: The percentage of condition specific camps serving children with epilepsy and epilepsy and family member(s) increased over four years, as did the opportunities for campers to advance in leadership roles. It is important for camps serving children with epilepsy to question their design and implement programs to support and promote goals. 1 Kirsti J. Dahlen, 1 Torunn Erichsen, and 1 Siv Skarstein ( 1 Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; and Administration, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway ) Rationale: Over the past decades a change in paradigm has taken place from seeing the patient as a passive receiver of treatment, till todays focus on empowerment and individual rehabilitation prosesses. A multidiciplinary educational programme for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation was established at the National Centre for Epilepsy in Norway in 2003. This educational programme focuses on two main subjects: Evidence based treatment and care within epilepsy and the rehabilitation prosess, including multidiciplinary communication and cooperation, and patient autonomy. The education takes place at the epilepsy centre and the syllabus is developed in close collaboration with a local university college. The students meet five sessions per year, each session lasting four days. The programme includes lectures, tutoring and group work. In this study, we have assessed the satisfaction among the students who completed the programme in 2003/4 and 2004/5. Methods: All 31 students participating in course l (2003/4) and course 2 (2004/5) answered a standardized evaluation questionnaire. The questionnaire contained 7 questiones with five alternative answers, scaled from 1 (bad) to 5 (very good). 18 of the students attending the educational programme were registered nurses and 13 were registered nurses for the mentally subnormal. 14 were fulltime employed within community based service and 17 fulltime employed within specialist service. Results: 31 students have completed the courses so far. Evaluation of satisfaction with the programme in each session shows that all 31 students scored from good to very good. Evaluation according to relevance of the main learning objects for the education and the use of internal lectures from the centre, showed similar results. Student satisfaction regarding lectures and group work within epileptology showed a higher score than within rehabilitation. Conclusions: A multidiciplinary education for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation seems to be of importance for the participants. The syllabus is evaluated to be relevant for the purpose of this education. A pedagogical challenge is how to merge the two main objects. 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 1,2 Priscila Barioni Salgado, 1,2 Ana Lúcia Andrade Noronha, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, UNICAMP, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Psychology, ASPE, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The purpose of this study is to estimate the magnitude of epilepsy stigma in four cities in the southern region of Brazil, a limited-resource country. Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional population-based study in Campinas, a large city with ?1 million inhabitants in the southeast of Brazil. We applied Stigma Scale of Epilepsy (SSE) in 1.850 people from all the regions within the city following a sampling selection methodology (95% confidence interval and error of 2.3%). In order to assess whether there is a regional difference in degree of epilepsy stigma, we applied SSE in a random selected people on the streets during the II National Week of Epilepsy in other three cities; Vila Velha, Curitiba, and S?o Paulo. SSE consists of 10 questions that provide a total score ranging from 0 (no stigma) to 100 (highest level of stigma). SSE was developed and validated by our group and showed high internal consistency (α Cronbach's coefficient = 0.81). Sample size required for assessing group differences using SSE is 47 subjects (r = 0,40; alpha = 0,05 [IC = 95%]; beta = 0,20). Results: The mean age of the subjects (53% women) was 39 years (range from 12 to 90 years) in Campinas. The mean SSE score was 42 (range from 3 to 98; SD = 14). Women had SSE score higher (43) than men (40) (t-test [1848]= 5.42; p < 0.001). In regard to religion, spiritism had lowest level of SSE score (35); (ANOVA [4,1845]= 4.4; p = 0.0015, Tukey's: spiritism<catholic = evangelic = others = no religion). Level of education showed inverse relation to SSE scores, illiterate people had higher level of SSE score (45) than people with university degree (37) (ANOVA [4,1845]= 16.3; p < 0.0001). In other three cities, it was applied 209 questionnaires (Curitiba = 83 subjects, S?o Paulo = 47, Vila Velha = 79). The mean SSE (95% Confidence interval) score were different among four cities: Campinas = 42 (95%CI = 41?43); Vila Velha = 42 (95%CI = 39?45); Curitiba = 49 (95%CI = 46?52); S?o Paulo = 53 (95%CI = 48?58). Conclusions: Our study showed that there are differences in the perception of stigma in different societies in the same country. The magnitude of stigma is different within segment a society, highlighting that sociocultural factors, such as gender, religion, and level of education are important predictors of stigma. Mass media campaign should target these social segments to fight prejudice and improve social acceptance of people with epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Patricia Fischer ( 1 Department of Pharmacy Practice, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Developing a seizure emergency treatment plan enables efficient management of seizure emergencies and decreases the potential for seizure-related complications. Individualized treatment plans provide for more patient and caregiver control in seizure emergencies, minimize the effect seizures have in the workplace or at school, and may reduce the need for access to emergency medical care. Recent emphasis has been placed on seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children; however, adults who experience seizures would also benefit from a predetermined course of action for seizure emergencies. Methods: A comprehensive review of the components associated with seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children, along with a literature review and clinical experience with adult patients with seizures, revealed that a seizure emergency treatment plan for adults would be a practical and comprehensive adjunctive treatment approach. The unique needs of adult patients were taken into consideration to develop a protocol for designing seizure emergency treatment plans for an adult population. Results: A 5-phase protocol to develop seizure emergency treatment plans for adult patients with seizures was created. In Phase I, patients who would benefit from plan development are identified; patients who require emergency medical transport for prolonged seizure episodes, patients whose antiepileptic drug regimen is being changed, and patients who are severely affected by their seizure activity are candidates. In Phase II, key plan components are identified, including seizure presentation and history, recognition of seizure emergencies, seizure first aid, and caretaker designation. If emergency seizure treatment includes seizure rescue medication, diazepam rectal gel (Diastat?) information (eg, administration instructions, time to stop seizures, instructions regarding repeat dosing, patient care) is delineated. In Phase III, specific steps needed to implement the plan are addressed, including caregiver education, use in patient-specific environments (eg, at work, while traveling), and removal of perceived obstacles to success. In Phase IV, efficacy, safety, ease of implementation, and patient and caregiver satisfaction with the plan are evaluated. Phase V allows for plan modification based on the evaluation as well as changes in seizure presentation and patient physical characteristics. Conclusions: Adult patients who experience seizures have unique treatment needs that warrant the development and implementation of individualized seizure emergency treatment plans for optimal management of seizure activity. (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Laura H. Goldstein, 2 Leah Holland, 2 Helen Soteriou, and 2 John D.C. Mellers ( 1 Psychology, PO 77, Institute of Psychiatry, London, United Kingdom ; and 2 Neuropsychiatry, Maudsley Hospital, London, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Whilst psychosocial well-being in people with epilepsy is thought to be related to styles of coping, less is known about the relationship between the way people with epilepsy perceive their illness (i.e. their illness representations) and their psychological state. Similarly, little is known about the extent to which illness representations are related to coping strategies when predicting outcome measures such as mood. Therefore, this study set out to extend what is known about predictors of anxiety and depression symptoms in adults with chronic epilepsy. Methods: Forty-three adults with chronic epilepsy attending out-patient hospital clinics completed the Illness Perception Questionnaire, the Ways of Coping Scale and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Recent seizure frequency was noted, as were patients' seizure types and age at onset of their epilepsy. Results: Whilst epilepsy variables (seizure frequency, age at seizure onset and number of seizure types) were not significantly related to mood, having also adjusted for gender within multiple regression analyses, an increased use of escape-avoidance and a decreased use of distancing as coping strategies best predicted patients' anxiety scores. In addition to the use of escape-avoidant coping, depression scores were also best predicted by the use of self-controlling coping strategies. After accounting for coping styles, anxiety scores were independently predicted by Illness Identity scores (i.e. the number of symptoms that patients associated with their seizures); this indicated that coping was not simply mediating the impact of illness representations on patients' mood. In contrast, no measure of illness representations independently predicted depression scores. Conclusions: Our results highlight the potential relevance of epilepsy patients' cognitive representations of their illness (and in particular patients' beliefs concerning Illness Identity), as well as their coping styles in determining their psychological well-being. Such factors may also be of importance when studying aspects of their health-related behaviour. 1 Andres M. Kanner, 1 Joanne Wuu, 2 Bruce Hermann, 3 Kimford Meador, 4 Frank Gilliam, and 5 John Barry ( 1 Neurological Sciences, Rush Medical College, Chicago, IL ; 2 Neurology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison, WI ; 3 Neurology, University of Florida School of Medicine, Gainsville, FL ; 4 Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 5 Psychiatry, Stanford Univesrity School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA ) Rationale: In patients with epilepsy (PWE) up to 50% of depressive episodes are atypical as they fail to meet any of the diagnostic criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV). Their semiology tends to be similar to dysthymic disorders and can therefore be referred as Dysthymic-like Disorders of Epilepsy (DLDE). The purpose of this study was to identify the most frequent symptoms of DLDE that could be used in the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. Methods: First phase: Sample A: 205 consecutive PWE from five outpatient epilepsy clinics underwent structured psychiatric interviews with two validated instruments used to identify Axis I diagnoses, according to the DSM-IV criteria (the Structured Clinical Interview for Axis I DSM-IV Disorders [SCID] and the Minin International Neuropsychiatric Inventory) and completed a 46 item instrument, the Mood and Anxiety Symptoms in Epilepsy (MASE), integrated by symptoms of depression (n = 16), anxiety (n = 11), irritability (n = 9), socialization difficulties (n = 5), increased energy (n = 3) and physical symptoms (n = 2). Each item inquires on the presence of a symptom for the last two weeks and is rated on a 4 Lickert Scale (1 [not at all] to 4 [all the time]) and was completed twice, two weeks apart. The MASE has a high internal consistency with a Chronbach alpha of 0.96. Among the 205 patients, 52 failed to meet any diagnostic criteria on the SCID and MINI but had a mean of 17.7 ± 7 positive symptoms (rated as 3 [some of the time] or 4 [all of the time]) on the MASE. Thirteen symptoms were identified by more than 50% of these patients. Second phase: The presence of these 13 symptoms was investigated in a second sample, of 159 PWE and a DLDE (Sample B) who underwent an evaluation with the same psychiatric instruments. Results: Among the 13 symptoms identified in > 50% of sample A patients (see below), 11 were identified in > 50% of sample B patients. These included: feel like crying (52%), disappointed (70%), moody (75%), worried (69%), tense (68%), get impatient easily (72%), agitated (55%), frustrated (65%), irritable and cranky (65%), prefer to be alone (62%), and tired (74%). Two symptoms identified in more than 50% in sample A but not in sample B included: angry and racing thoughts. Conclusions: DLDE is a pleomorphic mood disorder with symptoms of depression, anxiety and irritability. These 11 items are being evaluated for the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. (Supported by Glaxo-Smith-Kline.) 1,2 Ana Lucia Andrade Noronha, 2 Moacir Alves Borges, 2 Lucia Neves Marques, 4 Dirce Trevisan Zanetta, 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 5 Hanneke De Boer, 6 Javier Espindola, 6 Claudio Miranda, 7 Josemir W. Sander, 8 Leonid Prilipko, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, Faculty of Medicine - UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 2 EDUCATION, ASPE, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 3 Neurology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 4 Epidemiology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 5 Secretariat, Global Campaign Against Epilepsy ; 6 Pan-American Health Organization ; 7 Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom ; and 8 World Health Organization, Switzerland ) Rationale: The worldwide prevalence of epilepsy has been estimated to be around 10/1,000; however, the access to treatment is quite variable. Many people go untreated, particularly in resource poor countries, which may add to the cumulative prevalence of epilepsy in these countries. This study had an objective to estimate the prevalence of epilepsy and the proportion of people not receiving adequate treatment in different socio-economic classes in Brazil, a resource poor country. Methods: We conducted a door-to-door community survey to assess the prevalence and treatment gap of epilepsy (corrected for socio-economic status) in three areas of two cities (Campinas and S?o José do Rio Preto[SJRP]) in the southeast of Brazil. The total population studied in these three areas was 96,300 people. We applied a validated epidemiological questionnaire with sensitivity 95.8% and specificity 97.8% for epilepsy screening, and a neurologist further ascertained the positive cases. We applied a validated questionnaire based on household possessions inventory for socio-economic classification that ranges from Class A (highest) to E (lowest). We defined adequate epilepsy treatment as regular use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) at standard dosage. Results: The cumulative prevalence was 9.1/1,000 people. The estimated prevalence of active epilepsy was 5.3/1,000 people. The prevalence of active epilepsy was higher in the more deprived social classes in Campinas (Class D+E = 8.1/1,000 [95%CI = 4.4?11.9] vs. Class A = 1.6/1,000 [0.4?2.9]) and in SJRP (Class D+E = 7.3/1,000 [5.7?8.9] vs. Class B = 3.1/1,000 [1.5?4.7]). Thirty-seven percent of patients with active epilepsy had inadequate treatment, including 19% who were not on any medication; the figures were similar in the different socio-economic groups. Conclusions: The prevalence of epilepsy in Brazil is similar to other resource-poor countries, and the treatment gap is high. We studied the differences in the social classes for prevalence and treatment gap, and the poorer classes had higher prevalence than the richest ones, while treatment gap is similar. Commitment of the health system towards improvement of the quality of health management for people with epilepsy and consistent and regular AED supply is needed. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Roy C. Martin, 1 Russell H. Fushee, 1 Edward Faught, 1 Robert C. Knowlton, and 1 Laura K. Vogtle ( 1 Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: Driving restrictions play a central role in the quality of life in patients with epilepsy (PWE). Neurologists as well as other physician groups bear considerable responsibility for decisions about driving privileges in PWE. However, little is known about how neurologist's attitudes compare to other physician groups. The purpose of this survey was to compare practices and beliefs across physician subspecialties that treat PWE. Methods: A sample of 209 physicians (Neurologists = 56; non-neurologists (NN) = Family Practice and Internal Medicine physicians = 133 and Other/unspecified = 20) completed a 28-item survey related to driving issues and epilepsy. Surveys were completed through fax technology that met IRB approval. A random geographic sampling of 1400 physicians, obtained through a commercial provider, were faxed the survey. A 19% response rate was achieved. Some neurologists completed the survey during a regional epilepsy conference (21 of 48 conference attendees). Results: All practitioners treated PWE and nearly 100% of those surveyed felt driving should be allowed with seizure control. Both groups felt that 6 months seizure-free was an appropriate limit for reinstatement of driving privileges. NNs were more likely to oppose allowing people with uncontrolled seizures to drive (99% vs. 92%; p < .01). NNs were more likely to oppose people with uncontrolled seizures having driver's licenses when the seizures did not result in the loss of consciousness (85% vs. 61%; p < .001), when seizures occurred nocturnally (72% vs. 45%; p < .001), and more likely to agree that states should set a minimum time for PWE to be seizure free before allowing a driver's license (96% vs. 80%; p < .005). NNs were more likely to support mandatory reporting of patient seizure information to state motor vehicle departments (90% vs. 36%; p < .001). Neurologists were more likely to have had PWE report an automobile accident due to a seizure, (72% vs. 33%; p < .001), more likely to have suspected that PWEs had an unreported automobile accident due to a seizure (60% vs. 39%; p < .01), and to have had PWE give justifications for having to drive (75% vs. 58%; p < .05). Conclusions: Neurologists and NNs expressed several similar opinions regarding the importance of physician assistance in evaluating driving issues in PWE and the need for driving restrictions under certain circumstances. However, they differed in terms of specific areas including mandatory reporting and obtaining a drivers license under certain conditions. Although neurologists have had more patients involved in automobile accidents, NNs were generally more restrictive in their support for driving by PWE. This survey highlights the need for continued epilepsy-specific education outreach efforts directed at the non-neurology medical community. (Supported by the Special Interest Project from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention awarded through the UAB Center for Health Promotion.) 1 Louise Mc Quaid, 1 Colin Doherty, 1 Tony Kenny, 1 Norman Delanty, and 1 Mary Fitzsimons ( 1 Epilepsy Programme, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland ) Rationale: Electronic health (eHealth) services have the potential to enhance epilepsy care by improving integration of health services. Electronic patient records (EPR) provide basic infrastructure for eHealth services. An EPR supports pre-service, point-of-service and after-service enhancements for all stakeholders ? patients and their carers, clinicians, health researchers and healthcare managers. EPR's facilitate the continuity of patient care both within and across healthcare organisation boundaries as simultaneous and/or remote access by multiple users is possible. Data protection and security is enhanced with an audit trail of all accesses to the record which is role-based and limited to authorised and authenticated users. An EPR supports health service monitoring, planning, and health research as it provides ready access to large volumes of integrated, harmonised and consistent patient data. While the potential benefits of EPR's are clear, their design, development and implementation represent a socio-technical challenge. The epilepsy programme at Beaumont Hospital aims to design, develop and implement a standards based secure EPR to support epilepsy clinical services and research activities. Methods: System design involved a qualitative study to determine user and domain requirements, data protection, security and training requirements, and to inform software engineers. Study subjects included potential users of the EPR ? epileptologists, NCHDs, epilepsy nurses and the epilepsy clinic administrator. Data collection Multi-stage interviews following a Delphi technique were conducted with potential users; ethnographic fieldwork was conducted to observe users in the environment where the EPR will be used. Results: Data collected were used to establish the granularity of field requirements for the EPR; process-mapping was conducted to illustrate the workflows that the EPR would support; a set of use-cases, or sequence of transactions, required for effective interaction between users and the EPR was determined The technical development of the EPR is based on international healthcare standards. It has two components, one which manages generic patient information and one that manages epilepsy specific information. The system architecture can therefore be applied to develop EPRs for the management of other diseases. Conclusions: The epilepsy EPR development is at an advanced stage. 16 of 30 use cases are complete. User acceptance testing commenced in April 2005 and we expect roll-out of phase 1 to the epilepsy out-patient service at Beaumont Hospital in Summer 2005. In this presentation we will demonstrate our experience with the project to date and the first phase EPR user interfaces. Building on this infrastructure we aim to further enhance the care of epilepsy patients by providing remote access to the EPR to healthcare professionals in other settings and to authorised patients. (Supported by the Irish Health Research Board.) 1 Mary T. McCole, 2 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 2 John O. Elliott ( 1 Critical Care Department, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Individuals with epilepsy always seek to know more about their condition. Parents of children with epilepsy and young people with epilepsy want to know if their condition is likely to remit or worsen. Young adults eventually become concerned about the possible hereditary impact epilepsy may have upon future offspring. In this study an individual with epilepsy, without training in genetics or medical research, endeavored to identify all family members with epilepsy. Methods: The index subject, an American female of Irish Catholic descent, identified herself. She was aware that epilepsy ran in her family. She subsequently researched the family history of epilepsy by interviewing living relatives. The fact that epilepsy occurred in multiple generations was found when the subject began exploring her family history. The index subject trained herself in genealogical research by following the recommendations of others who had done the same, as well as reviewing multiple records relevant to her family tree. Oral histories provided most of the information. All research was done in the US. Results: Genealogic research identified 5 generations with epilepsy in this family. Epilepsy could be traced back to the index subject's paternal grandparents (generation 1 G1). Epilepsy was clearly traced to the paternal grandfather's maternal family, although the grandmother seemed to have more knowledge than expected for seizure disorders. Grandparents were from the same county in Ireland but not cconsanguineous. They may have been denied immigration to the US by disclosing an illness such as epilepsy; however, neither were never known to have seizures. In the 2nd generation (G2) 1of 8 and 7 of 26 in generation 3 (G3) had seizures. All individuals but one in G2 married subjects of Irish heritage. All G3 subjects married non-Irish. In G4, 1of 45 had seizures. Of 9 G5 subjects, none have yet to develop seizures. While absence seizures were reported, the primary seizure type is tonic-clonic, with typical onset at age 8 and no onset later than 15. Epilepsy is mild; some individuals outgrew epilepsy. This research also identified three 2nd cousins; one each for G2, G3  however, one child was not able to go to school because of his condition. Two adults were currently unemployed because of their uncontrolled seizures. Results: The verbatim transcriptions were treated as a database. Data were analyzed by two investigators to identify themes. Each investigator independently identified the themes and listed the statements that supported that theme. The investigators then met to discuss each theme and supporting statements and 100% agreement was reached. Four themes with subthemes evolved from the parent data: Difficulties/Struggles/Problems (Navigating the health care system, Being an advocate, Trajectory of disorder and what to expect from health care professionals, Family role changes); Helpful at the beginning (Time to process, Access to doctors and nurses); Helpful now (Information: building on existing knowledge, Support); and Fears, Needs and Concerns (Interference with growth and development, Prognosis, Unpredictability/uncertainty). Two themes evolved from the child data: Talking at my level and Feeling different than others. Conclusions: Findings from this study provide direction for health care professionals working with children and their families. It is evident that much attention needs to be directed to assessing informational and emotional support needs during the diagnostic process. It appears equally important that ongoing assessment is necessary as chidlren and parents have continuing needs beyond the initial encounter. Future research is needed to develop educational interventions that address these concerns and needs for both children and their parents. (Supported by Center for Enhancing Quality of Life in Chronic Illness, Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis, IN, 46202.) 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Sally L. Hanson, 1 Chris D. Tollefson, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Joseph I. Sirven, 1 Michael C. Roarke, and 1 Deborah L. Shulman ( 1 Neurology/Nuclear Radiology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Many medical centers with epilepsy monitoring units (EMU), are performing ictal brain scintigraphy (SPECT). In order to produce accurate SPECT images, the injection of radiopharmaceutical (tracer) must occur during the seizure. After the onset of a seizure, the preferred maximum amount of time allowed for injecting the isotope is 90 seconds with less than 30 seconds being optimal. The medical personnel in closest proximity to the patient during seizure onset is the registered nurse (RN). Injection of the radioactive tracer by the RN may be the best way to ensure an optimally timed ictal injection. State radiation regulatory agencies are often reluctant to grant permission to perform these injections to allied health personnel outside of the Nuclear Medicine department. We will describe our RN safety education program and competency assessment program at Mayo Clinic Arizona (MCA). Methods: The Arizona Radiation Regulatory Agency (ARRA) controls the use of all radiopharmaceuticals. MCA has a broad scope radioactive material license from the ARRA. ARRA granted approval to deliver the injection of radiopharmaceuticals for this procedure, provided that an education module and competency assessment were developed for the RNs at MCA working in the EMU. Certified Nuclear Medicine Technologists (CNMTs) and the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) provided initial education (January 2003) for these RNs. Advisory opinions posted by the Arizona State Board of Nursing had previously established that RNs were able to inject IV contrast medium for diagnostic studies such as computed tomography. Results: A total of 15 RNs were present for the initial training which involved viewing a radiation safety video, reading and verbalizing understanding of the unit specific ictal radiopharmaceutical injection policy. A performance criteria sheet was completed as each RN demonstrated the correct performance of these injections. The initial class was approximately one hour. All 26 EMU RNs completed the same education requirements described above. All RNs (100%) met the competency requirement. This competency is reinforced and revalidated during annual unit based education, which is mandatory for all RNs. During annual competencies RNs are not required to view the radiation video again, however, they are required to demonstrate understanding of the policy as well as correct performance of the injection and handling of the radioactive material. Conclusions: Despite regulatory deterrents to the procedure, EMU RNs play an important role in the injection of ictal SPECT scan patients at MCA. Through a dedicated radiation safety education and competency assessment, EMU RNs can aquire the knowledge and skills necessary for the safe and rapid injection of the radiopharmaceutical during a seizure event. 1 Christine O'Dell, 1 David Masur, 2 Anne T. Berg, 1 Maryana Sigalova, 1 Rochelle C. Ledgister, and 1 Shlomo Shinnar ( 1 Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; and 2 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ) Rationale: To determine the frequency of the utilization of special educational services in children who present with a first unprovoked seizure. Methods: In a prospective study, 407 children age one month to 19 years (mean age 6.8 years) with a first unprovoked seizure were recruited and then followed for a mean of 14.4 years. A structured interview was conducted > 10 years after the initial seizure which included questions about education. Educational data were available in 325 (80%) cases and in 101 sibling controls. Results: In the overall cohort, 129 (40%) of the subjects and 23 (23%) of the controls in this predominantly inner city cohort had either received any special educational services including resource room or repeated a grade (SpEd group) at some point (p < 0.002). Limiting the analysis to cases with cryptogenic or idiopathic etiology, 85 (33%) of 259 cases compared to 23 (23%) controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.06). Among these 259 cases, 42 (28%) of 152 children who only had one seizure were in the SpEd group compared with 25 (32%) of 79 children with a total of 2 to 9 seizures and 18 (64%) of 28 children with 10 or more seizures over the duration of the study (p = 0.0007). Comparing the children with a cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and only one seizure to the controls, 28% of 152 cases and 23% of controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.39). On the other hand, 40% of 107 children with cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and recurrent seizures were in the SpEd group which was significantly higher than the control group (p = 0.007). Conclusions: Children with recurrent seizures have a higher rate of receiving special educational services than children who present with a single unprovoked seizure or than sibling controls. This is particularly true of those with 10 or more seizures. However, children with a single unprovoked seizure who do not recur have a similar profile of educational needs as controls. These data provide further support for the favorable outcome of children with a single unprovoked seizure. (Supported by NIH grant NS 26151 from NINDS.) 1,4,5 Rosemary J. Panelli, 1 Susan M. Moore, 2 Christine Kilpatrick, 2 Zelko Matkovic, 3 Wendyl D'souza, and 2,3,4 Terence J. O'Brien ( 1 Life and Social Sciences, Swinburne University ; 2 Department of Neurology, Royal Melbourne Hospital ; 3 Department of Neurology, The Alfred ; 4 Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne ; and 5 Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Research suggests that patients with epilepsy are at risk of negative psychosocial effects. This longitudinal study followed a cohort of First Seizure Clinic patients over 12 months to compare psychosocial outcomes of those patients diagnosed with seizures and those who were not. Methods: Following a suspected first seizure, adults with no known prior diagnosis of epilepsy were grouped into four broad diagnostic categories: provoked or single seizures (33.5%), epilepsy (35.5%), syncope (14.3%), or other (18.8%). Self-report questionnaires were completed at the first visit (n = 245), 3 months (n = 156), and 12 months (n = 93). Measures included the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), a perception of general health question, a satisfaction with treatment scale, and a perceived stigma scale. Results: In 245 participants the mean age was 37 years (SD 16) and 65% were male. Anxiety and depression rates did not differ significantly between the four diagnostic groups. However, there was a strong relationship between mood and levels of perceived general health. Patients with the poorest perception of their general health had anxiety and depression levels significantly higher than patients with high levels of perceived general health at all time points (all p < 0.001, one way ANOVA). Satisfaction with treatment also did not vary between diagnostic groups, but was correlated with mood. Low treatment satisfaction was associated with high levels of anxiety and depression: 3 months (anxiety: r = .35, p < 0.001; depression: r = .29, p < 0.01); 12 months (anxiety: r = .27, p < 0.05, depression: r = .24, p < 0.05). There was no difference between the perceived stigma scores of the four diagnostic categories. However, perceived stigma was strongly correlated with anxiety and depression: baseline (anxiety: r = .60; depression: r = .52); 3 months (anxiety: r = .55; depression: r = .55); 12 months (anxiety: r = .47; depression: r = .43); (all p < 0.001). Conclusions: First Seizure Clinic patients diagnosed with seizures do not appear to be at higher risk of affective disturbances or perceived stigma in the first 12 months, than those who are not diagnosed with seizures. Mood is a stronger indicator of patient well-being than diagnosis and this needs to be considered in patient management. (Supported by Australian Research Council and the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria.) 1 Sharon Penney, 1 Maureen Robertson, 1 Jackie Martini, 1 Thea Dupras, 1 Nancy Thornton, 1 Corinne McMillan, 1 Arlene Sadownyk, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Pediatrics, Janeway Child Health Centre, St John, NL, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Informal surveys reveal that in Canada (2003) there are no more than two dozen nurses working part or full-time in epilepsy. Three large Canadian provinces have no access to epilepsy nurses. We conducted a survey to assess the perceived role and value of specialized epilepsy nurses in the out-patient and in-patient setting. Methods: This was a cross-sectional survey involving epileptologists and epilepsy clinic patients across Canada. Epilepsy centers were identified from previous census. Physicians and patients answered a ten-item questionnaire. Physicians were asked about dedicated funding for epilepsy nurses, availability at their centre, specific roles, and a rating of importance of specialized epilepsy nurses. Patients were asked about type of interaction with the epilepsy nurse, perception of helpfulness and satisfaction, as well as health care setting. The project was approved by the internal Ethics Review Board. Results: At the time of this submission, 17 centres had replied, 41% had dedicated funding for a total of 25 epilepsy nurses. Their roles were multiple: 25?100% of their activities were clinical, 5?40% research and 5?30% purely inpatient. Seventy-six percent of the nurses were involved in educational activities, 65% were involved specialized seizure monitoring units, 58% were involved in coordinating pre-surgical evaluation, and 82% were involved in other patient care areas. All centers rated the role of the epilepsy nurse as highly important (7/7). At the time of this report, 92 patients replied. Ninety-six percent had contact with an epilepsy nurse, either directly, over the telephone or both. The most commonly reported benefit was enhancing communication between patients and neurologists (91%), understanding anti-seizure drugs (62%) and understanding epilepsy (54%). In addition, nurses assisted patients cope with epilepsy. Seventy-five percent (75%) rated this as 5/7 or higher, and 80% were highly satisfied with nursing intervention (5/7 or higher). Conclusions: There is a need for an increased role of dedicated epilepsy nurses at all levels of epilepsy care. Both physicians and patients rated patient education, assistance with care and organizational aspects as highly valuable. Unfortunately, many patients with epilepsy do not have access to this valuable resource. 1 Lena K.A. Räty, 2 Birgitta A. Söderfeldt, and 1 Bodil M. Wilde Larsson ( 1 Department of Nursing Science, Division for Health and Caring Sciences, Karlstad, Sweden ; and 2 Department of Neuroscience and Locomotion, Division of Neurology, Linköping, Sweden ) Rationale: The aim was to study the development of the epilepsy condition during adolescence and to identify factors that are of significant importance to achieve optimal psychosocial well-being and seizure-freedom or seizure reduction in adulthood. A further aim was to study quality of life in young adults. Methods: In 1999 151 adolescents (13 - 22 years) with epilepsy answered questionnaires on quality of life focusing on self-esteem, psychosocial and medical aspects. In 2004 a follow-up study was carried out with questionnaires mainly identical to those used in 1999. One questionnaire regarding quality of life (QLI) was added. The answering rate was 70%. No significant differences were found between participants and dropouts regarding variables measured 1999. Results: At present results regarding psychosocial factors and quality of life have been preliminary analysed. Compared with 1999 males reported a lower psychosocial well-being (p = 0.009) at the follow-up in 2004. The differences were most evident in patients aged 18?20 (?22) years. The lowest scores were reported on the sense of coherence, representing confidence in life by measuring manageability, comprehensiveness and meaning (p = 0.01). As five years ago the participants reported a positive self-esteem, however somewhat lower compared with the general population. The lowest quality of life was reported in the psychological/spiritual area and highest in relation to the family. Conclusions: The result indicates that psychosocial well-being, especially regarding the sense of coherence could be age-related in males with epilepsy, with the lowest point at 18 ? 20 years of age. 1 Maureen Robertson, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Although epilepsy has a high prevalence, misconceptions and lack of knowledge among the public are problematic. Grade XII students are at the brink of adulthood. This is an impressionable age when lifetime attitudes are often formed. We evaluated the effect of a structured educational intervention about epilepsy in this age group. Methods: Seventy grade XII students engage annually in one-day field trips with lectures and demonstrations by specialized epilepsy professionals, following a classroom education session on the brain. Pre-intervention (day before) and post-intervention (within 2?3 days), identical questionnaires were administered. Questionnaires contained 21 questions assessing general knowledge about epilepsy, attitudinal aspects, and personal knowledge of people with epilepsy. Sample questions include: ?Is epilepsy a form of mental illness?,??People who have epilepsy should not go out in public places in case they might have a seizure (True/False),??What should you do if you see a person you know having a seizure?? Results: In 2002 the average correct pre-test and post-test response rate was 65% and 87%, respectively. In 2005 the average correct pre-intervention and post-intervention response rate was 49% and 70% respectively (mean difference of 22.4 points, p < 0.001). Therefore knowledge and attitudes improved by this structured educational intervention. Free text analysis of written feedback by students revealed improved attitudes and empathy for people with epilepsy. Conclusions: Epilepsy centers can serve important educational functions in society, an often neglected activity in such specialized units. Educational interventions in epilepsy are meaningful and effective in adolescence. 1 Cheryl P. Shore, 2 Susan M. Perkins, and 1 Joan K. Austin ( 1 Nursing, Indiana University/Purdue University Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 Division of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Previous research suggests that children with epilepsy and their parents experience stressors related to the child's health condition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the Seizures and Epilepsy Education (SEE) program on quality of life, seizure condition management, and health care costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. Methods: A quasi-experimental design was used. Each participant served as his or her control. Most participants were referred by a school nurse or physician. Children were eligible to participate if they were at least 12 years of age, had a diagnosis of epilepsy, and could attend with at least one parent. Parents of children younger than 12 were also eligible to attend. Participants attended the SEE program, a two-day intensive psychoeducational program including content on medical and social aspects of epilepsy. Participants completed instruments to measure the variables of interest prior to program attendance, 4 weeks after attending, and 6 months after attendance. Statistical analysis was completed using SAS Version 9.1. Repeated measures ANCOVA, McNemar's tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were utitlized. Results: Representatives of 17 families participated. Parents significantly improved on many variables both 4 weeks and 6 months after program attendance. Outcomes with continued improvement 6 months after the program included parental perceptions of child behavior, child mental health, and family activities. Parents also demonstrated improved knowledge of epilepsy, less worry about the seizure condition, and had fewer unmet needs for information. Parents reported fewer nonscheduled health care visits and fewer child absences from school after SEE program attendance. Children's scores that remained significantly improved six months after the program included perceptions of their behavior, mental health, self-esteem, and family activities. Children maintained significantly lower levels of depressive symptoms and fewer fears about epilepsy six months after program attendance. Conclusions: The SEE program resulted in significant differences in quality of life indicators, measures of seizure condition management, and health care and related costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. The results are consistent with those from a previous study with adult participants (Helgeson et al., Epilepsia 1990; 31; 75?82). Health care providers can recommend the SEE program and reasonably expect that attendance will result in improved quality of life and seizure condition management. (Supported by The Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of Shire US, Inc.) 1 Deborah L. Shulman, 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Joseph I. Sirven ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, Mesa ) Rationale: Telephone triage is a major part of the role of the epilepsy nurse coordinator. Some calls are from patients, while others are received by a spouse or parent. A large portion of these calls includes: reporting seizures, requesting lab results, and difficulties with medications. Many times instructions are given to adjust medications based on lab results, seizures, or side effects reported. On many occasions the person calling is asked to call back and let us know how they are doing in relation to the instructions given. Unfortunately we do not always receive a call back with this information. Are family members more responsible than patients about calling back? A tracking system to follow up with patients on a timely basis when we did not hear back from them was initiated. This is important in order to improve health outcomes from interventions. Methods: The epilepsy coordinator is responsible for all phone calls for a team of 2 neurologists. All calls received during regular business hours were documented prospectively over a two-week period noting, 1. who called, 2. the purpose of the call, and 3. any directions that were given. All calls pertained to individuals with epilepsy. We did not include calls related to medication refill requests, appointments, scheduling monitoring admissions or calls that did not request a return call. We tabulated the number of calls from family members versus patients, and which group responded to the request to call back. Our intent was to establish better communication with all our patients and to identify which group required more of an effort to establish consistent and reliable communication. Results: A total of 37 phone calls were analyzed with 13 calls for medication problems, 10 to report seizures and 14 for test results. 46% of calls received were by family members and 54% by a patient. Phone calls for test results that led to medication changes represented the largest return rate of calls as instructed with 38% from the family group and 36% from the patients. 50% of families were likely to call back, while 52% of the patients did not. An equal number of spouses called, however, 40% of wives called back versus 20% of husbands. There were more telephone calls from females with a return rate of 55% versus 38% of males that returned calls. 3 out of the 5 calls received from parents were not returned. When we called patients we did not hear from, some stated they planned on calling but they ?did not want to be a bother.? Conclusions: It is important to know how patients are doing after therapy changes. The development of a tracking chart will enable us to reach out to each patient in a timely manner when they do not call back as instructed. Ensuring that health care provider recommendations are completed is essential to improve health outcomes. 1,2 Debbie Terry, 1,3 Juliann Paolicchi, and 1 Mary Karn ( 1 Neurology, Columbus Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH ; 2 Nursing, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; and 3 Pediatrics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy are frequently prescribed diazepam rectal gel for the acute treatment of seizures. In addition to home use, parents have asked other caregivers in day care and school settings to administer diazepam rectal gel. Parents have reported resistance and refusal by schools or day care providers to administer diazepam rectal gel. This may have a significant impact on the child's well being and the child and family's quality of life. The purpose of this study was to identify the frequency with which parents of children with epilepsy experience barriers to the use of diazepam rectal gel in daycare or school settings, what those barriers are, and what the impact is on the child and family. Methods: This was a prospective study conducted in a comprehensive epilepsy clinic. During a six month period, parents of children birth to 18 years were screened to participate in the study. Parents of children previously prescribed diazepam rectal gel were asked to complete an 18 item questionnaire. Results: Of 218 parents screened, 86 qualified for the study and 64 agreed to participate. Of the 64 parents who completed the questionnaire, 43 (68%) had asked their school or daycare to administer diazepam rectal gel. Overall, of those 43 parents, 35 (81%) reported that the school or day care agreed and 8 (19%) reported they refused to give diazepam rectal gel. Of these 43 parents, 16 (37%) asked MRDD schools of which 15 (94%) agreed and 1 (6%) refused; 21 (49%) asked public schools of which 17 (81%) agreed and 4 (19%) refused; and 6 (14%) asked private schools of which 3 (50%) agreed and 3 (50%) refused. There was a statistically significant difference in the responses between MRDD and private schools (p = .028). Reasons for refusal were: 5 (62%) not legally allowed to give diazepam rectal gel, 2 (25%) reasons were unknown, 2 (25%) worry that school staff would not know when to give the medication, 2 (25%) fear of embarrassing the child, and 1 (12.5%) fear of not being able to learn how to give the medication. Of the 8 parents whose school or day care refused to give diazepam rectal gel, 3 (42%) parents reported no effect on their family, but 3 (42%) parents worried their child would be hurt by a seizure, 1 (12.5%) parent kept her child at home, and 1 (12.5%) parent went to school with her child. Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that the majority of children prescribed diazepam rectal gel do not encounter barriers to its use in school and day care settings. However, children in private schools are significantly more likely to encounter barriers than are children in MRDD programs. The most frequently stated reason for refusal of the school or day care to give diazepam rectal gel was legal concerns. When schools refuse to give diazepam rectal gel, the quality of life of the child and family can be significantly impacted. 1 Rupprecht Thorbecke, 1 Ulrich Specht, 1 Joachim Czisch, and 2 Theodor W. May ( 1 Rehabilitation Unit, EvKB, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 2 Society for Epilepsy Research, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: A follow-up evaluation of patients of a specialized rehabilitation unit for people with epilepsy showed significant improvements for epilepsy related fear, emotional adaptation, physical and emotional health, however only weak effects for perceived stigma (PS) (3). Using data from the same cohort, this study aims to get more insight into the association of clinical, neuropsychological and psychosocial variables with PS. Methods: Ninety-six consecutive non-surgical patients with epilepsy (mean age, 35 years, 66% male) completed a validated questionnaire (PESOS) before admission (2, 3). PESOS includes a 4 item PS scale. During the rehabilitation program, all patients underwent comprehensive epileptological, neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluation. Associations between PS and clinical respectively psychosocial variables were tested with univariate methods (p < .05, two tailed). Results: Mean duration of epilepsy was 17.5 years. 24% of the patients were seizure-free (>6 months) on admission. 75% of the patients reported more or less pronounced PS. There were strong relations between PS and emotional adaptation, self esteem, and perceived restrictions because of one's epilepsy (all, p < .01). No association between PS and psychiatric co-morbidity or partnership was found. However PS was higher in patients with early onset of epilepsy, neuropsychological deficits or epilepsy related fears. Patients holding a driving license felt less stigmatized than those who did not. There were however no differences between patients who were actually driving/not driving because of their epilepsy. PS was associated with difficulties to address one's epilepsy when being with other persons, and with the number of friends and frequency of contacts. Conclusions: Our findings are in accordance with the literature, showing that PS is a common finding in chronic epilepsy, with strong associations of PS with emotional variables however only weak associations with seizure frequency (1). They underline the importance of holding a driving license and also of neuropsychological deficits for PS. Finally they demonstrate clearly that PS is associated with social isolation. REFERENCES 1.?Jacoby A. Epilepsy Behav 3, 6S2 (2002) S10?S20. 2.?May TW, et al. PESOS-Fragebogen fuer Menschen mit Epilepsie. Z Epileptol 2004;17(4):287?300. 3.?Specht U., et al. Epilepsia 2004;45 Suppl 7: 57 ( Supported by the society for epilepsy research , Bielefeld , Germany .) 1 Michael J. Wierzbinski, and 2 Paul C. Van Ness ( 1 Medicine Services/Epilepsy Outreach Program, Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX ; and 2 Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: About 25% of adult epilepsy patients have intractable seizures. Many are unable to work or retain a job due to seizures and other co-morbidities. Patients may apply for federal governmental assistance since they are unable to work. They apply thorough the Social Security Administration for one of two programs. One, is Social Supplemental Income (SSI) and or Social Security Disability Income (SSDI), the later if they have a consistent work history. After applying for disability it may take several years before benefits are approved. Additional information would be helpful to find out what variables may determine the time it may take for a positive ruling of disability for a patient's claim. Methods: Chart reviews and telephone interviews were conducted on 25 adult patients from an indigent, urban county hospital who were felt to be disabled. Patients who consistently attended an epilepsy clinic, report having seizures, and have applied for governmental disability benefits were included. Results: Disability information was obtained from 25 patients. 75% of the case had seizure onset before age 20. 36% of the patients had generalized tonic clonic seizures and 32% had generalized seizures along with complex partial seizures. 75% of the patients had a diagnostic EEG that confirmed their epilepsy diagnosis. 40% of the patients had other co-morbidities. 28% had a psychiatric diagnosis. 60% either had cognitive deficits or were diagnosed with borderline IQ and/or mental retardation. 50% had no work history and or a limited work history. Most were over the age of 40 and were minorities. At least, 60% of the patients had previously applied for benefits at least one other time. 30% of the patients who applied for SSI/SSDI were approved for disability within one year of application. 70% who applied for disability had to wait one to three years before they were approved. Conclusions: Applying for disability thorough the Social Security Administration is complex, confusing, and time consuming. Most patients in this study required assistance in applying for disability from an attorney or social worker. Some patients have filed multiple times for disability. Many are denied disability initially despite eventual approval. Several cases were told that they could work despite the physician's opinion. The wait has many psychosocial implications. Some patients give up trying to obtain disability and depend upon family for financial assistance. Finally, several patients had their disability claim turned down by disability attorneys/representatives. The later did not want to represent the patient's disability claim. There was no one to assist them thorough this process except their social worker. (Supported by Epilepsy Outreach Program is funded by a grant from the Department of State Health Services (Texas).)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - NYMAN, G.
AU  - LINDBERG, R.
AU  - WECKNER, D.
AU  - BJÖRK, M.
AU  - KVART, C.
AU  - PERSSON, S. G. B.
AU  - GUSTAFSSON, H.
AU  - HEDENSTIERNA, G.
TI  - Pulmonary gas exchange correlated to clinical signs and lung pathology in horses with chronic bronchiolitis
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 23
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1991.tb03713.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1991.tb03713.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 1991
AB  - Summary Eight horses (mean weight 438 kg) with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) were studied for clinical signs, ventilation/perfusion relationships (V?A/Q?) and lung morphology. Four horses were killed and necropsied after the study. In horses with COPD, minute ventilation was almost twice as high as normal, whereas PaO2 was significantly decreased. Cardiac output was normal, but pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance were significantly increased. The V?A/Q? distribution was abnormal with an increased scatter of V?A/Q? ratios. However, shunt (V?A/Q?=0) was increased in one horse only. Ventilation of dead space and high V?A/Q? regions (V?A/Q?>10) were increased markedly and comprised 74 per cent of minute ventilation. On lung biopsy, all horses showed chronic bronchiolitis with epithelial hyperplasia and metaplasia. Diffuse acinar hyperinflation also was evident at necropsy. There was a significant inverse correlation between the respiratory rate and the fractional ventilation of normal V?A/Q? regions. Also, there was a significant agreement between the extent of bronchiolar epithelial hyperplasia in necropsy specimens of lungs and the degree of ventilation of high V?A/Q? regions and dead space. The findings suggest that hyperinflation of the lung due to obstructed airways may be the common denominator of increased ventilation of high V?A/Q? regions and dead space ventilation and of elevated pulmonary artery pressure in horses with COPD from chronic bronchiolitis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Luzzatto, Lucio
AU  - Fasola, Foluke
AU  - Tshilolo, Léon
TI  - Haematology in Africa
JO  - British Journal of Haematology
VL  - 154
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2141.2011.08763.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2141.2011.08763.x
SP  - 777
EP  - 782
KW  - haematology
KW  - Africa
KW  - developing world
PY  - 2011
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Takenami, Tamie
AU  - Yagishita, Saburo
AU  - Asato, Fumio
AU  - Hoka, Sumio
TI  - Basic Science (21)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-21.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-21.x
SP  - 91
EP  - 91
PY  - 2001
AB  - Neurotoxicity of intrathecally administered tetracaine commences at posterior roots near entry into the spinal cord. (Kitasato University, Kanagawa, Japan) Reg Anesth Pain Med 2000;25:372?379. This study examined the histopathologic effects of intrathecally administered tetracaine. Sixty Wistar rats randomly received either 20%, 10%, 5%, 3%, 1%, 0.5%, or 0% tetracaine dissolved in 10% glucose solution or no solution via a chronically implanted intrathecal catheter. The spinal cord at L1, posterior and anterior roots and cauda equina were excised 5 days later, sectioned, processed, and prepared for light and electron microscopic examinations. Rats treated with tetracaine at 10% or 20% developed lesions in the posterior white matter and posterior roots. Rats injected with 3% or 5% tetracaine developed lesions, which began in the posterior roots close to the spinal cord and extended to the posterior white matter. The lesions were characterized by axonal degeneration. Injections of 1% of tetracaine did not cause any pathological changes. The results suggest that the initial target of intrathecal tetracaine neurotoxicity may be the posterior roots at their entry into the spinal cord, where the axons are devoid of myelin sheath and thus represent a sensitive area for neurotoxic change. Comment by James E. Heavner, DVM, PhD. The reassuring aspect of this study is that no significant lesions were found when rats were given clinically used concentrations of tetracaine. The investigators do make a case that clinically used concentrations of tetracaine might be neurotoxic in humans based on the observation that the duration of action of tetracaine is shorter in rats than in humans. The distribution of the lesions is curious in that 10% tetracaine produced lesions in the posterior rootlets and in the posterior rootlet entry zone, but did not produce lesions in the fasciculus gracilis. The implication is that rootlets posterior to lamina L1 (the L1 segment that was examined) that were destroyed do not project into the fasciculus gracilis. One would expect that destruction of lamina L2 posterior rootlets that projected into the fasciculus gracilis would produce lesions visible at the EM level at L1 5 days after damage. The absence of lesions in the L1 fasciculus gracilis puzzles me. I am also puzzled by the suggestion that all posterior rootlets loose their myelin sheath just before entry into the posterior white matter of the spinal cord (Obersteiner-Redlich zone). To my knowledge, most posterior rootlets do not have this nonmyelinated zone and; therefore, the absence of the myelin would make only a portion of the posterior rootlets vulnerable to tetracaine neurotoxicity as suggested by the authors. In short, there are some anatomical relationships that do not fit with the distribution of lesions described by the investigators.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Boyce, Neil
TI  - Blood Matters – Translating Ideas Into Action
JO  - Transfusion Medicine
VL  - 15
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-3148.2005.00554at.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-3148.2005.00554at.x
SP  - 69
EP  - 82
PY  - 2005
AB  - On behalf of the ?Blood Matters? Planning Group. The Blood Matters Collaborative was structured around a series of specific projects designed to improve distinct aspects of the sequence of care processes that ultimately determine the safety of each and every fresh blood product (red cell, platelet, fresh frozen plasma and cryoprecipitate) transfusion. These commence with the appropriateness of the clinical decision to transfuse blood products, then move to ensure that procedures for patient, sample and blood product identification and blood administration are robust and that any procedural errors and adverse events associated with transfusion are captured, analysed and acted upon. Finally and very importantly the collaborative sought to improve the patient and carers understanding of the risks and benefits of transfusion. It was an ambitious program of work but there seemed little alternative other than addressing all of the interdependent processes that determine the quality and safety of transfusion. All elements in this chain contribute to the actual levels of transfusion safety. With support from the Clinical Innovation Agency and planning group members, local multi-disciplinary hospital teams set out to deliver changes to improve transfusion safety. The collaborative methodology, initially developed by the Institute of Healthcare Improvement in the United States of America, has been adopted and used by a large number of health systems internationally and within Australia. It is based on answering three key questions [Q1. What are we trying to accomplish? Q2. How will we know that a change is an improvement? Q3. What changes can we make that will result in improvement?] and testing ideas through the plan, do, study, act cycles of change. Individual projects monitored progress using ?run charts? to record their measured performance. These indicated progress towards achieving locally set targets and collaborative improvement goals. Our objectives were translated into tangible benefits for patients requiring blood product transfusion. Fundamental to the collaborative approach to improving transfusion practice is the belief that changes can be tested rapidly on a small scale without risk. For example, an idea can quickly be tried with one patient, one clinic or ward, a single consultant or hospital. Only if it proved successful was it suggested for wider adoption as an improvement in care across an entire Health Service or system of care. Our successes reinforced the value of using a systematic method for translating ideas into practice such as that used by the collaborative. The governance structures and teams established during our participation in the collaborative have helped us to identify key local issues and implement strategies to enhance the quality of our transfusion services to our patients. Our aim is to ensure that the continued review and improvement of transfusion practices becomes an integral part of the way that clinical teams and hospital and health system clinical governance structures work. The role of state or national bodies is to support this to happen. We hope to build a series of improvement partnerships that all focus on optimising the quality of transfusion services and the outcomes of patients receiving transfusion during their clinical care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - McGee, William T.
AU  - Mailloux, Patrick
AU  - Jodka, Paul
AU  - Thomas, Joss
TI  - CRITICAL CARE ISSUES FOR THE NEPHROLOGIST: The Pulmonary Artery Catheter in Critical Care
JO  - Seminars in Dialysis
VL  - 19
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1525-139X.2006.00210.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1525-139X.2006.00210.x
SP  - 480
EP  - 491
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Pulmonary artery catheterization has been a routine part of care for critically ill patients over the past 25?years. Primary hemodynamic data regarding cardiac output and pulmonary pressures can be utilized to make diagnoses and guide therapy. Tissue oxygen delivery and utilization allow inferences about the efficiency of the cardiopulmonary system and the impact of disease and medical therapies on tissue metabolism. Goals of high level invasive monitoring of cardiopulmonary function with pulmonary artery catheterization are organ salvage and minimizing complications associated with critical illness. Optimizing renal perfusion and minimizing pulmonary congestion with precise volume titration are common reasons for performing pulmonary artery catheterization in the intensive care unit. Despite being reassuring to clinicians that hemodynamic therapy is optimal, multiple data from well conducted clinical studies have not demonstrated outcome benefits to patients related to pulmonary artery catheterization. Less invasive techniques to obtain data regarding hemodynamic function are now entering the clinical arena and are being actively investigated.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Crone, Julia S.
AU  - Bio, Branden J.
AU  - Vespa, Paul M.
AU  - Lutkenhoff, Evan S.
AU  - Monti, Martin M.
TI  - Restoration of thalamo-cortical connectivity after brain injury: recovery of consciousness, complex behavior, or passage of time?
JO  - Journal of Neuroscience Research
JA  - J Neuro Res
VL  - 96
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jnr.24115
DO  - doi:10.1002/jnr.24115
SP  - 671
EP  - 687
KW  - brain injury
KW  - thalamus
KW  - coma
KW  - disorders of consciousness
KW  - large-scale network connectivity
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract In 2000, a landmark case report described the concurrent restoration of consciousness and thalamo-frontal connectivity after severe brain injury (Laureys et al., ). Being a single case however, this study could not disambiguate whether the result was specific to the restoration of consciousness per se as opposed to the return of complex cognitive function in general or simply the temporal evolution of post-injury pathophysiological events. To test whether the restoration of thalamo-cortical connectivity is specific to consciousness, 20 moderate-to-severe brain injury patients (from a recruited sample of 42) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging within a week after injury and again six months later. As described in the single case report, we find thalamo-frontal connectivity to be increased at the chronic, compared with the acute, time-point. The increased connectivity was independent of whether patients had already recovered consciousness prior to the first assessment or whether they recovered consciousness in-between the two. Conversely, we did find an association between restoration of thalamo-frontal connectivity and the return of complex cognitive function. While we did replicate the findings of Laureys et al. (), our data suggests that the restoration of thalamo-frontal connectivity is not as tightly linked to the reemergence of consciousness per se. However, the degree to which the return of connectivity is linked to the return of complex cognitive function, or to the evolution of other time-dependent post-injury mechanisms, remains to be understood.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Loera-Valencia, R.
AU  - Cedazo-Minguez, A.
AU  - Kenigsberg, P.A.
AU  - Page, G.
AU  - Duarte, A.I.
AU  - Giusti, P.
AU  - Zusso, M.
AU  - Robert, P.
AU  - Frisoni, G. B.
AU  - Cattaneo, A.
AU  - Zille, M.
AU  - Boltze, J.
AU  - Cartier, N.
AU  - Buee, L.
AU  - Johansson, G.
AU  - Winblad, B.
TI  - Current and emerging avenues for Alzheimer's disease drug targets
JO  - Journal of Internal Medicine
JA  - J Intern Med
VL  - 286
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/joim.12959
DO  - doi:10.1111/joim.12959
SP  - 398
EP  - 437
KW  - AD gene therapy
KW  - AD molecular targets
KW  - AD therapeutics
KW  - alzheimer´s disease
KW  - amyloid beta therapies
KW  - Tau therapies
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most frequent cause of dementia, is escalating as a global epidemic, and so far, there is neither cure nor treatment to alter its progression. The most important feature of the disease is neuronal death and loss of cognitive functions, caused probably from several pathological processes in the brain. The main neuropathological features of AD are widely described as amyloid beta (A?) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles of the aggregated protein tau, which contribute to the disease. Nevertheless, AD brains suffer from a variety of alterations in function, such as energy metabolism, inflammation and synaptic activity. The latest decades have seen an explosion of genes and molecules that can be employed as targets aiming to improve brain physiology, which can result in preventive strategies for AD. Moreover, therapeutics using these targets can help AD brains to sustain function during the development of AD pathology. Here, we review broadly recent information for potential targets that can modify AD through diverse pharmacological and nonpharmacological approaches including gene therapy. We propose that AD could be tackled not only using combination therapies including A? and tau, but also considering insulin and cholesterol metabolism, vascular function, synaptic plasticity, epigenetics, neurovascular junction and blood?brain barrier targets that have been studied recently. We also make a case for the role of gut microbiota in AD. Our hope is to promote the continuing research of diverse targets affecting AD and promote diverse targeting as a near-future strategy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Oliveira, Hugo
AU  - Pires, Liliana R.
AU  - Fernandez, Ramon
AU  - Martins, M. Cristina L.
AU  - Simões, Sérgio
AU  - Pêgo, Ana P.
TI  - Chitosan-based gene delivery vectors targeted to the peripheral nervous system
JO  - Journal of Biomedical Materials Research Part A
JA  - J. Biomed. Mater. Res.
VL  - 95A
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbm.a.32874
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbm.a.32874
SP  - 801
EP  - 810
KW  - peripheral nervous system
KW  - targeted
KW  - gene delivery
KW  - chitosan
KW  - nontoxic fragment of tetanus toxin
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract A non-toxic, targeted, simple and efficient system that can specifically transfect peripheral sensorial neurons can pave the way towards the development of new therapeutics for the treatment of peripheral neuropathies. In this study chitosan (CH), a biodegradable polymer, was used as the starting material in the design of a multicomponent vector targeted to the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Polycation-DNA complexes were optimized using imidazole- and thiol-grafted CH (CHimiSH), in order to increase transfection efficiency and allow the formation of ligand conjugated nanocomplexes, respectively. The 50 kDa non-toxic fragment from the tetanus toxin (HC), shown to interact specifically with peripheral neurons and undergo retrograde transport, was grafted to the binary complex via a bi-functional poly(ethylene glycol) (HC-PEG) reactive for the thiol moieties present in the complex surface. The targeting of the developed nanocomplexes was assessed by means of internalization and transfection studies in the ND7/23 (neuronal) vs. NIH 3T3 (fibroblast) cell lines. Targeted transfection was further confirmed in dorsal root ganglion dissociated primary cultures. A versatile, multi-component nanoparticle system that successfully targets and transfects neuronal cell lines, as well as dorsal root ganglia (DRG) primary neuron cultures was obtained for the 1.0 (w/w) HC-PEG/DNA formulation. ? 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res Part A, 2010.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pierce, Janet D.
AU  - Gupte, Raeesa
AU  - Thimmesch, Amanda
AU  - Shen, Qiuhua
AU  - Hiebert, John B.
AU  - Brooks, William M.
AU  - Clancy, Richard L.
AU  - Diaz, Francisco J.
AU  - Harris, Janna L.
TI  - Ubiquinol treatment for TBI in male rats: Effects on mitochondrial integrity, injury severity, and neurometabolism
JO  - Journal of Neuroscience Research
JA  - J Neuro Res
VL  - 96
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jnr.24210
DO  - doi:10.1002/jnr.24210
SP  - 1080
EP  - 1092
KW  - apoptosis
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - magnetic resonance spectroscopy
KW  - mitochondria
KW  - RRID: SCR_003792
KW  - RRID: SCR_014051
KW  - RRID: SCR_011417
KW  - RRID: SCR_008988
KW  - RRID: SCR_004515
KW  - RRID: SCR_008635
KW  - RRID: SCR_014455
KW  - RRID: SCR_012763
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Following traumatic brain injury (TBI), there is significant secondary damage to cerebral tissue from increased free radicals and impaired mitochondrial function. This imbalance between reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and the effectiveness of cellular antioxidant defenses is termed oxidative stress. Often there are insufficient antioxidants to scavenge ROS, leading to alterations in cerebral structure and function. Attenuating oxidative stress following a TBI by administering an antioxidant may decrease secondary brain injury, and currently many drugs and supplements are being investigated. We explored an over-the-counter supplement called ubiquinol (reduced form of coenzyme Q10), a potent antioxidant naturally produced in brain mitochondria. We administered intra-arterial ubiquinol to rats to determine if it would reduce mitochondrial damage, apoptosis, and severity of a contusive TBI. Adult male F344 rats were randomly assigned to one of three groups: (1) Saline-TBI, (2) ubiquinol 30 minutes before TBI (UB-PreTBI), or (3) ubiquinol 30 minutes after TBI (UB-PostTBI). We found when ubiquinol was administered before or after TBI, rats had an acute reduction in brain mitochondrial damage, apoptosis, and two serum biomarkers of TBI severity, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1). However, in vivo neurometabolic assessment with proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy did not show attenuated injury-induced changes. These findings are the first to show that ubiquinol preserves mitochondria and reduces cellular injury severity after TBI, and support further study of ubiquinol as a promising adjunct therapy for TBI.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wang, Zhu
AU  - Wang, Qianqian
AU  - He, Tao
AU  - Li, Wen
AU  - Liu, Yan
AU  - Fan, Yuan
AU  - Wang, Yanping
AU  - Wang, Qi
AU  - Chen, Jie
TI  - The combination of artesunate and carboplatin exerts a synergistic anti-tumor effect on non-small cell lung cancer
JO  - Clinical and Experimental Pharmacology and Physiology
JA  - Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1440-1681.13287
DO  - doi:10.1111/1440-1681.13287
KW  - Artesunate
KW  - Carboplatin
KW  - Cell apoptosis
KW  - Cell cycle
KW  - Non-small cell lung cancer
AB  - Abstract Carboplatin (CBP) is a widely used targeted anticancer therapeutic drug, however, multi-drug resistance induced by the accumulation of CBP eventually causes diseases progression. The anti-malarial drug artesunate (ART) also exerts anti-cancer effects in various cancers; however, the combined effect of ART and CBP on non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unclear. In the present study, the NSCLC cell line A549 was pretreated with various concentrations of CBP, ART and gemcitabine (GEM). 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assays were conducted to detect cell viability. Cell apoptosis was evaluated by both flow cytometry and TUNEL apoptotic assay. The expression profiles of cell cycle-related proteins and apoptotic proteins were determined by western blot. Cell clone numbers were visualized using crystal violet staining. Here, we found that both CBP and ART suppressed cell viability, and promoted cell apoptosis, and the combined application of ART and CBP at a lower concentration exhibited synergistic effects. Specifically, the combination of ART and CBP at a lower concentration suppressed cell clone numbers, promoted cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase, and induced the expression of the cell cycle and apoptosis related proteins BAX, p21, p53, and Caspae-3, while decreasing Bcl-2 and CyclinB1 expression. Based on these results, we concluded that combined application of ART and CBP exerts synergistic anti-tumor effects on NSCLC by enhancing cell apoptosis in a mitochondria-dependent manner.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yadav, Vikas
AU  - Sun, Lin
AU  - Panilaitis, Bruce
AU  - Kaplan, David L.
TI  - In vitro chondrogenesis with lysozyme susceptible bacterial cellulose as a scaffold
JO  - Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine
JA  - J Tissue Eng Regen Med
VL  - 9
IS  - 12
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/term.1644
DO  - doi:10.1002/term.1644
SP  - E276
EP  - E288
KW  - bacterial cellulose
KW  - tissue engineering
KW  - mesenchymal stem cells
KW  - cartilage
KW  - chondrogenesis
KW  - extracellular matrix
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract A current focus of tissue engineering is the use of adult human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) as an alternative to autologous chondrocytes for cartilage repair. Several natural and synthetic polymers (including cellulose) have been explored as a biomaterial scaffold for cartilage tissue engineering. While bacterial cellulose (BC) has been used in tissue engineering, its lack of degradability in vivo and high crystallinity restricts widespread applications in the field. Recently we reported the formation of a novel bacterial cellulose that is lysozyme-susceptible and -degradable in vivo from metabolically engineered Gluconacetobacter xylinus. Here we report the use of this modified bacterial cellulose (MBC) for cartilage tissue engineering using hMSCs. MBC's glucosaminoglycan-like chemistry, combined with in vivo degradability, suggested opportunities to exploit this novel polymer in cartilage tissue engineering. We have observed that, like BC, MBC scaffolds support cell attachment and proliferation. Chondrogenesis of hMSCs in the MBC scaffolds was demonstrated by real-time RT?PCR analysis for cartilage-specific extracellular matrix (ECM) markers (collagen type II, aggrecan and SOX9) as well as histological and immunohistochemical evaluations of cartilage-specific ECM markers. Further, the attachment, proliferation, and differentiation of hMSCs in MBC showed unique characteristics. For example, after 4 weeks of cultivation, the spatial cell arrangement and collagen type-II and ACAN distribution resembled those in native articular cartilage tissue, suggesting promise for these novel in vivo degradable scaffolds for chondrogenesis. Copyright ? 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 
