
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chahud, Fernando
AU  - Ramalho, Leandra N. Z.
AU  - Ramalho, Fernando S.
AU  - Haddad, Antonio
AU  - Roque-Barreira, Maria C.
TI  - The lectin KM+ induces corneal epithelial wound healing in rabbits
JO  - International Journal of Experimental Pathology
VL  - 90
IS  - 2
SN  - 0959-9673
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00626.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00626.x
SP  - 166
EP  - 173
KW  - Artocarpus integrifolia
KW  - corneal wound healing
KW  - KM+ lectin
KW  - neutrophils
PY  - 2009
AB  - Summary Neutrophil influx is essential for corneal regeneration (Gan et al. 1999). KM+, a lectin from Artocarpus integrifolia, induces neutrophil migration (Santos-de-Oliveira et al. 1994). This study aims at investigating a possible effect of KM+ on corneal regeneration in rabbits. A 6.0-mm diameter area of debridement was created on the cornea of both eyes by mechanical scraping. The experimental eyes received drops of KM+ (2.5??g/ml) every 2?h. The control eyes received buffer. The epithelial wounded areas of the lectin-treated and untreated eyes were stained with fluorescein, photographed and measured. The animals were killed 12?h (group 1, n?=?5), 24?h (group 2, n?=?10) and 48?h (group 3, n?=?5) after the scraping. The corneas were analysed histologically (haematoxylin and eosin and immunostaining for proliferation cell nuclear antigen, p63, vascular endothelial growth factor, c-Met and laminin). No significant differences were found at the epithelial gap between treated and control eyes in the group 1. However, the number of neutrophils in the wounded area was significantly higher in treated eyes in this group. Three control and seven treated eyes were healed completely and only rare neutrophils persisted in the corneal stroma in group 2. No morphological distinction was observed between treated and control eyes in group 3. In treated corneas of group 2, there was an increase in immunostaining of factors involved in corneal healing compared to controls. Thus, topical application of KM+ may facilitate corneal epithelial wound healing in rabbits by means of a mechanism that involves increased influx of neutrophils into the wounded area induced by the lectin.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Aslam, R. S.
AU  - Scheuenstuhl, H.
AU  - Beckert, S.
AU  - Hopf, H.
AU  - Hussain, Z.
AU  - Hunt, T. K.
TI  - 049 Lactate Controls Vascular Development in Wound Healing
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 12
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractav.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractav.x
SP  - A14
EP  - A14
PY  - 2004
AB  - INTRODUCTION: High concentrations of lactate approx. 10?mM are characteristic of wound healing. We have previously shown that lactate instigates release of VEGF from macrophages and endothelial cells. Our present study uses an in vivo murine Matrigel model to study how lactate enhances vascular development and repair. METHODS: Matrigel is a reconstituted basement membrane complex, a liquid at 4 degree C. When injected subcutaneously, it reconstitutes as a gel. 30?mgs of finely divided polylactate polymer (DL-lactide-co-glycolide) was mixed with 1cc of Matrigel, and 2 injections were made into the dorsum of each of 60 (average 7/group), 6-month-old Swiss Webster mice. The gel implants were harvested at 3, 6, 9, 11 and 16 days post injection, and were fixed in buffered formalin or frozen. Cell migration and vascular development were assessed using H&E, anti-CD31 and anti-MAC3 antibody stainings for leukocytes, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and macrophages. Cells and vessels were quantified microscopically. RESULTS: Control implants (without polylactate) developed little or no inflammation or angiogenesis. Polylactated implants developed highly significant number of endothelial cells and recognizable vessels at 6 and 9 days. At 11 and 16 days, sizeable vessels with surrounding connective tissue were found. Though a moderate inflammation occurred in the lactate groups, no foreign body reaction was seen. Larger implants of high molecular weight instigated little inflammation and few vessels. CONCLUSION: Slowly released lactate leads to the formation of new vessels. Our results provide support for further clinical applications of lactate polymer in wounds. NIH/NIGMS Trauma Training Grant
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chan, James K
AU  - Glass, Graeme E
AU  - Ersek, Adel
AU  - Freidin, Andrew
AU  - Williams, Garry A
AU  - Gowers, Kate
AU  - Espirito Santo, Ana I
AU  - Jeffery, Rosemary
AU  - Otto, William R
AU  - Poulsom, Richard
AU  - Feldmann, Marc
AU  - Rankin, Sara M
AU  - Horwood, Nicole J
AU  - Nanchahal, Jagdeep
TI  - Low-dose TNF augments fracture healing in normal and osteoporotic bone by up-regulating the innate immune response
JO  - EMBO Molecular Medicine
JA  - EMBO Mol Med
VL  - 7
IS  - 5
SN  - 1757-4676
UR  - https://doi.org/10.15252/emmm.201404487
DO  - doi:10.15252/emmm.201404487
SP  - 547
EP  - 561
KW  - bone
KW  - CCL2
KW  - fracture
KW  - inflammation
KW  - TNF
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract The mechanism by which trauma initiates healing remains unclear. Precise understanding of these events may define interventions for accelerating healing that could be translated to the clinical arena. We previously reported that addition of low-dose recombinant human TNF (rhTNF) at the fracture site augmented fracture repair in a murine tibial fracture model. Here, we show that local rhTNF treatment is only effective when administered within 24 h of injury, when neutrophils are the major inflammatory cell infiltrate. Systemic administration of anti-TNF impaired fracture healing. Addition of rhTNF enhanced neutrophil recruitment and promoted recruitment of monocytes through CCL2 production. Conversely, depletion of neutrophils or inhibition of the chemokine receptor CCR2 resulted in significantly impaired fracture healing. Fragility, or osteoporotic, fractures represent a major medical problem as they are associated with permanent disability and premature death. Using a murine model of fragility fractures, we found that local rhTNF treatment improved fracture healing during the early phase of repair. If translated clinically, this promotion of fracture healing would reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with delayed patient mobilization.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Boyce, Neil
TI  - Blood Matters – Translating Ideas Into Action
JO  - Transfusion Medicine
VL  - 15
IS  - 1
SN  - 0958-7578
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-3148.2005.00554at.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-3148.2005.00554at.x
SP  - 69
EP  - 82
PY  - 2005
AB  - On behalf of the ?Blood Matters? Planning Group. The Blood Matters Collaborative was structured around a series of specific projects designed to improve distinct aspects of the sequence of care processes that ultimately determine the safety of each and every fresh blood product (red cell, platelet, fresh frozen plasma and cryoprecipitate) transfusion. These commence with the appropriateness of the clinical decision to transfuse blood products, then move to ensure that procedures for patient, sample and blood product identification and blood administration are robust and that any procedural errors and adverse events associated with transfusion are captured, analysed and acted upon. Finally and very importantly the collaborative sought to improve the patient and carers understanding of the risks and benefits of transfusion. It was an ambitious program of work but there seemed little alternative other than addressing all of the interdependent processes that determine the quality and safety of transfusion. All elements in this chain contribute to the actual levels of transfusion safety. With support from the Clinical Innovation Agency and planning group members, local multi-disciplinary hospital teams set out to deliver changes to improve transfusion safety. The collaborative methodology, initially developed by the Institute of Healthcare Improvement in the United States of America, has been adopted and used by a large number of health systems internationally and within Australia. It is based on answering three key questions [Q1. What are we trying to accomplish? Q2. How will we know that a change is an improvement? Q3. What changes can we make that will result in improvement?] and testing ideas through the plan, do, study, act cycles of change. Individual projects monitored progress using ?run charts? to record their measured performance. These indicated progress towards achieving locally set targets and collaborative improvement goals. Our objectives were translated into tangible benefits for patients requiring blood product transfusion. Fundamental to the collaborative approach to improving transfusion practice is the belief that changes can be tested rapidly on a small scale without risk. For example, an idea can quickly be tried with one patient, one clinic or ward, a single consultant or hospital. Only if it proved successful was it suggested for wider adoption as an improvement in care across an entire Health Service or system of care. Our successes reinforced the value of using a systematic method for translating ideas into practice such as that used by the collaborative. The governance structures and teams established during our participation in the collaborative have helped us to identify key local issues and implement strategies to enhance the quality of our transfusion services to our patients. Our aim is to ensure that the continued review and improvement of transfusion practices becomes an integral part of the way that clinical teams and hospital and health system clinical governance structures work. The role of state or national bodies is to support this to happen. We hope to build a series of improvement partnerships that all focus on optimising the quality of transfusion services and the outcomes of patients receiving transfusion during their clinical care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sharma, Jyotika
AU  - Li, Qun
AU  - Mishra, Bibhuti B.
AU  - Pena, Christopher
AU  - Teale, Judy M.
TI  - Lethal pulmonary infection with Francisella novicida is associated with severe sepsis
JO  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
JA  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
VL  - 86
IS  - 3
SN  - 0741-5400
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1189/jlb.1208728
DO  - doi:10.1189/jlb.1208728
SP  - 491
EP  - 504
KW  - tularemia
KW  - 58 kDa mutant
KW  - hypercytokinemia
KW  - bacteremia
PY  - 2009
AB  - Excessive host inflammatory responses negatively impact the disease outcome in pneumonic tularemia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cossarizza, Andrea
AU  - Chang, Hyun-Dong
AU  - Radbruch, Andreas
AU  - Acs, Andreas
AU  - Adam, Dieter
AU  - Adam-Klages, Sabine
AU  - Agace, William W.
AU  - Aghaeepour, Nima
AU  - Akdis, Mübeccel
AU  - Allez, Matthieu
AU  - Almeida, Larissa Nogueira
AU  - Alvisi, Giorgia
AU  - Anderson, Graham
AU  - Andrä, Immanuel
AU  - Annunziato, Francesco
AU  - Anselmo, Achille
AU  - Bacher, Petra
AU  - Baldari, Cosima T.
AU  - Bari, Sudipto
AU  - Barnaba, Vincenzo
AU  - Barros-Martins, Joana
AU  - Battistini, Luca
AU  - Bauer, Wolfgang
AU  - Baumgart, Sabine
AU  - Baumgarth, Nicole
AU  - Baumjohann, Dirk
AU  - Baying, Bianka
AU  - Bebawy, Mary
AU  - Becher, Burkhard
AU  - Beisker, Wolfgang
AU  - Benes, Vladimir
AU  - Beyaert, Rudi
AU  - Blanco, Alfonso
AU  - Boardman, Dominic A.
AU  - Bogdan, Christian
AU  - Borger, Jessica G.
AU  - Borsellino, Giovanna
AU  - Boulais, Philip E.
AU  - Bradford, Jolene A.
AU  - Brenner, Dirk
AU  - Brinkman, Ryan R.
AU  - Brooks, Anna E. S.
AU  - Busch, Dirk H.
AU  - Büscher, Martin
AU  - Bushnell, Timothy P.
AU  - Calzetti, Federica
AU  - Cameron, Garth
AU  - Cammarata, Ilenia
AU  - Cao, Xuetao
AU  - Cardell, Susanna L.
AU  - Casola, Stefano
AU  - Cassatella, Marco A.
AU  - Cavani, Andrea
AU  - Celada, Antonio
AU  - Chatenoud, Lucienne
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Pratip K.
AU  - Chow, Sue
AU  - Christakou, Eleni
AU  - Čičin-Šain, Luka
AU  - Clerici, Mario
AU  - Colombo, Federico S.
AU  - Cook, Laura
AU  - Cooke, Anne
AU  - Cooper, Andrea M.
AU  - Corbett, Alexandra J.
AU  - Cosma, Antonio
AU  - Cosmi, Lorenzo
AU  - Coulie, Pierre G.
AU  - Cumano, Ana
AU  - Cvetkovic, Ljiljana
AU  - Dang, Van Duc
AU  - Dang-Heine, Chantip
AU  - Davey, Martin S.
AU  - Davies, Derek
AU  - De Biasi, Sara
AU  - Del Zotto, Genny
AU  - Dela Cruz, Gelo Victoriano
AU  - Delacher, Michael
AU  - Della Bella, Silvia
AU  - Dellabona, Paolo
AU  - Deniz, Günnur
AU  - Dessing, Mark
AU  - Di Santo, James P.
AU  - Diefenbach, Andreas
AU  - Dieli, Francesco
AU  - Dolf, Andreas
AU  - Dörner, Thomas
AU  - Dress, Regine J.
AU  - Dudziak, Diana
AU  - Dustin, Michael
AU  - Dutertre, Charles-Antoine
AU  - Ebner, Friederike
AU  - Eckle, Sidonia B. G.
AU  - Edinger, Matthias
AU  - Eede, Pascale
AU  - Ehrhardt, Götz R.A.
AU  - Eich, Marcus
AU  - Engel, Pablo
AU  - Engelhardt, Britta
AU  - Erdei, Anna
AU  - Esser, Charlotte
AU  - Everts, Bart
AU  - Evrard, Maximilien
AU  - Falk, Christine S.
AU  - Fehniger, Todd A.
AU  - Felipo-Benavent, Mar
AU  - Ferry, Helen
AU  - Feuerer, Markus
AU  - Filby, Andrew
AU  - Filkor, Kata
AU  - Fillatreau, Simon
AU  - Follo, Marie
AU  - Förster, Irmgard
AU  - Foster, John
AU  - Foulds, Gemma A.
AU  - Frehse, Britta
AU  - Frenette, Paul S.
AU  - Frischbutter, Stefan
AU  - Fritzsche, Wolfgang
AU  - Galbraith, David W.
AU  - Gangaev, Anastasia
AU  - Garbi, Natalio
AU  - Gaudilliere, Brice
AU  - Gazzinelli, Ricardo T.
AU  - Geginat, Jens
AU  - Gerner, Wilhelm
AU  - Gherardin, Nicholas A.
AU  - Ghoreschi, Kamran
AU  - Gibellini, Lara
AU  - Ginhoux, Florent
AU  - Goda, Keisuke
AU  - Godfrey, Dale I.
AU  - Goettlinger, Christoph
AU  - González-Navajas, Jose M.
AU  - Goodyear, Carl S.
AU  - Gori, Andrea
AU  - Grogan, Jane L.
AU  - Grummitt, Daryl
AU  - Grützkau, Andreas
AU  - Haftmann, Claudia
AU  - Hahn, Jonas
AU  - Hammad, Hamida
AU  - Hämmerling, Günter
AU  - Hansmann, Leo
AU  - Hansson, Goran
AU  - Harpur, Christopher M.
AU  - Hartmann, Susanne
AU  - Hauser, Andrea
AU  - Hauser, Anja E.
AU  - Haviland, David L.
AU  - Hedley, David
AU  - Hernández, Daniela C.
AU  - Herrera, Guadalupe
AU  - Herrmann, Martin
AU  - Hess, Christoph
AU  - Höfer, Thomas
AU  - Hoffmann, Petra
AU  - Hogquist, Kristin
AU  - Holland, Tristan
AU  - Höllt, Thomas
AU  - Holmdahl, Rikard
AU  - Hombrink, Pleun
AU  - Houston, Jessica P.
AU  - Hoyer, Bimba F.
AU  - Huang, Bo
AU  - Huang, Fang-Ping
AU  - Huber, Johanna E.
AU  - Huehn, Jochen
AU  - Hundemer, Michael
AU  - Hunter, Christopher A.
AU  - Hwang, William Y. K.
AU  - Iannone, Anna
AU  - Ingelfinger, Florian
AU  - Ivison, Sabine M
AU  - Jäck, Hans-Martin
AU  - Jani, Peter K.
AU  - Jávega, Beatriz
AU  - Jonjic, Stipan
AU  - Kaiser, Toralf
AU  - Kalina, Tomas
AU  - Kamradt, Thomas
AU  - Kaufmann, Stefan H. E.
AU  - Keller, Baerbel
AU  - Ketelaars, Steven L. C.
AU  - Khalilnezhad, Ahad
AU  - Khan, Srijit
AU  - Kisielow, Jan
AU  - Klenerman, Paul
AU  - Knopf, Jasmin
AU  - Koay, Hui-Fern
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Kolls, Jay K.
AU  - Kong, Wan Ting
AU  - Kopf, Manfred
AU  - Korn, Thomas
AU  - Kriegsmann, Katharina
AU  - Kristyanto, Hendy
AU  - Kroneis, Thomas
AU  - Krueger, Andreas
AU  - Kühne, Jenny
AU  - Kukat, Christian
AU  - Kunkel, Désirée
AU  - Kunze-Schumacher, Heike
AU  - Kurosaki, Tomohiro
AU  - Kurts, Christian
AU  - Kvistborg, Pia
AU  - Kwok, Immanuel
AU  - Landry, Jonathan
AU  - Lantz, Olivier
AU  - Lanuti, Paola
AU  - LaRosa, Francesca
AU  - Lehuen, Agnès
AU  - LeibundGut-Landmann, Salomé
AU  - Leipold, Michael D.
AU  - Leung, Leslie Y.T.
AU  - Levings, Megan K.
AU  - Lino, Andreia C.
AU  - Liotta, Francesco
AU  - Litwin, Virginia
AU  - Liu, Yanling
AU  - Ljunggren, Hans-Gustaf
AU  - Lohoff, Michael
AU  - Lombardi, Giovanna
AU  - Lopez, Lilly
AU  - López-Botet, Miguel
AU  - Lovett-Racke, Amy E.
AU  - Lubberts, Erik
AU  - Luche, Herve
AU  - Ludewig, Burkhard
AU  - Lugli, Enrico
AU  - Lunemann, Sebastian
AU  - Maecker, Holden T.
AU  - Maggi, Laura
AU  - Maguire, Orla
AU  - Mair, Florian
AU  - Mair, Kerstin H.
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
AU  - Manz, Rudolf A.
AU  - Marshall, Aaron J.
AU  - Martínez-Romero, Alicia
AU  - Martrus, Glòria
AU  - Marventano, Ivana
AU  - Maslinski, Wlodzimierz
AU  - Matarese, Giuseppe
AU  - Mattioli, Anna Vittoria
AU  - Maueröder, Christian
AU  - Mazzoni, Alessio
AU  - McCluskey, James
AU  - McGrath, Mairi
AU  - McGuire, Helen M.
AU  - McInnes, Iain B.
AU  - Mei, Henrik E.
AU  - Melchers, Fritz
AU  - Melzer, Susanne
AU  - Mielenz, Dirk
AU  - Miller, Stephen D.
AU  - Mills, Kingston H.G.
AU  - Minderman, Hans
AU  - Mjösberg, Jenny
AU  - Moore, Jonni
AU  - Moran, Barry
AU  - Moretta, Lorenzo
AU  - Mosmann, Tim R.
AU  - Müller, Susann
AU  - Multhoff, Gabriele
AU  - Muñoz, Luis Enrique
AU  - Münz, Christian
AU  - Nakayama, Toshinori
AU  - Nasi, Milena
AU  - Neumann, Katrin
AU  - Ng, Lai Guan
AU  - Niedobitek, Antonia
AU  - Nourshargh, Sussan
AU  - Núñez, Gabriel
AU  - O'Connor, José-Enrique
AU  - Ochel, Aaron
AU  - Oja, Anna
AU  - Ordonez, Diana
AU  - Orfao, Alberto
AU  - Orlowski-Oliver, Eva
AU  - Ouyang, Wenjun
AU  - Oxenius, Annette
AU  - Palankar, Raghavendra
AU  - Panse, Isabel
AU  - Pattanapanyasat, Kovit
AU  - Paulsen, Malte
AU  - Pavlinic, Dinko
AU  - Penter, Livius
AU  - Peterson, Pärt
AU  - Peth, Christian
AU  - Petriz, Jordi
AU  - Piancone, Federica
AU  - Pickl, Winfried F.
AU  - Piconese, Silvia
AU  - Pinti, Marcello
AU  - Pockley, A. Graham
AU  - Podolska, Malgorzata Justyna
AU  - Poon, Zhiyong
AU  - Pracht, Katharina
AU  - Prinz, Immo
AU  - Pucillo, Carlo E. M.
AU  - Quataert, Sally A.
AU  - Quatrini, Linda
AU  - Quinn, Kylie M.
AU  - Radbruch, Helena
AU  - Radstake, Tim R. D. J.
AU  - Rahmig, Susann
AU  - Rahn, Hans-Peter
AU  - Rajwa, Bartek
AU  - Ravichandran, Gevitha
AU  - Raz, Yotam
AU  - Rebhahn, Jonathan A.
AU  - Recktenwald, Diether
AU  - Reimer, Dorothea
AU  - Reis e Sousa, Caetano
AU  - Remmerswaal, Ester B.M.
AU  - Richter, Lisa
AU  - Rico, Laura G.
AU  - Riddell, Andy
AU  - Rieger, Aja M.
AU  - Robinson, J. Paul
AU  - Romagnani, Chiara
AU  - Rubartelli, Anna
AU  - Ruland, Jürgen
AU  - Saalmüller, Armin
AU  - Saeys, Yvan
AU  - Saito, Takashi
AU  - Sakaguchi, Shimon
AU  - Sala-de-Oyanguren, Francisco
AU  - Samstag, Yvonne
AU  - Sanderson, Sharon
AU  - Sandrock, Inga
AU  - Santoni, Angela
AU  - Sanz, Ramon Bellmàs
AU  - Saresella, Marina
AU  - Sautes-Fridman, Catherine
AU  - Sawitzki, Birgit
AU  - Schadt, Linda
AU  - Scheffold, Alexander
AU  - Scherer, Hans U.
AU  - Schiemann, Matthias
AU  - Schildberg, Frank A.
AU  - Schimisky, Esther
AU  - Schlitzer, Andreas
AU  - Schlosser, Josephine
AU  - Schmid, Stephan
AU  - Schmitt, Steffen
AU  - Schober, Kilian
AU  - Schraivogel, Daniel
AU  - Schuh, Wolfgang
AU  - Schüler, Thomas
AU  - Schulte, Reiner
AU  - Schulz, Axel Ronald
AU  - Schulz, Sebastian R.
AU  - Scottá, Cristiano
AU  - Scott-Algara, Daniel
AU  - Sester, David P.
AU  - Shankey, T. Vincent
AU  - Silva-Santos, Bruno
AU  - Simon, Anna Katharina
AU  - Sitnik, Katarzyna M.
AU  - Sozzani, Silvano
AU  - Speiser, Daniel E.
AU  - Spidlen, Josef
AU  - Stahlberg, Anders
AU  - Stall, Alan M.
AU  - Stanley, Natalie
AU  - Stark, Regina
AU  - Stehle, Christina
AU  - Steinmetz, Tobit
AU  - Stockinger, Hannes
AU  - Takahama, Yousuke
AU  - Takeda, Kiyoshi
AU  - Tan, Leonard
AU  - Tárnok, Attila
AU  - Tiegs, Gisa
AU  - Toldi, Gergely
AU  - Tornack, Julia
AU  - Traggiai, Elisabetta
AU  - Trebak, Mohamed
AU  - Tree, Timothy I.M.
AU  - Trotter, Joe
AU  - Trowsdale, John
AU  - Tsoumakidou, Maria
AU  - Ulrich, Henning
AU  - Urbanczyk, Sophia
AU  - van de Veen, Willem
AU  - van den Broek, Maries
AU  - van der Pol, Edwin
AU  - Van Gassen, Sofie
AU  - Van Isterdael, Gert
AU  - van Lier, René A.W.
AU  - Veldhoen, Marc
AU  - Vento-Asturias, Salvador
AU  - Vieira, Paulo
AU  - Voehringer, David
AU  - Volk, Hans-Dieter
AU  - von Borstel, Anouk
AU  - von Volkmann, Konrad
AU  - Waisman, Ari
AU  - Walker, Rachael V.
AU  - Wallace, Paul K.
AU  - Wang, Sa A.
AU  - Wang, Xin M.
AU  - Ward, Michael D.
AU  - Ward-Hartstonge, Kirsten A
AU  - Warnatz, Klaus
AU  - Warnes, Gary
AU  - Warth, Sarah
AU  - Waskow, Claudia
AU  - Watson, James V.
AU  - Watzl, Carsten
AU  - Wegener, Leonie
AU  - Weisenburger, Thomas
AU  - Wiedemann, Annika
AU  - Wienands, Jürgen
AU  - Wilharm, Anneke
AU  - Wilkinson, Robert John
AU  - Willimsky, Gerald
AU  - Wing, James B.
AU  - Winkelmann, Rieke
AU  - Winkler, Thomas H.
AU  - Wirz, Oliver F.
AU  - Wong, Alicia
AU  - Wurst, Peter
AU  - Yang, Jennie H. M.
AU  - Yang, Juhao
AU  - Yazdanbakhsh, Maria
AU  - Yu, Liping
AU  - Yue, Alice
AU  - Zhang, Hanlin
AU  - Zhao, Yi
AU  - Ziegler, Susanne Maria
AU  - Zielinski, Christina
AU  - Zimmermann, Jakob
AU  - Zychlinsky, Arturo
TI  - Guidelines for the use of flow cytometry and cell sorting in immunological studies (second edition)
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 10
SN  - 0014-2980
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201970107
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201970107
SP  - 1457
EP  - 1973
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract These guidelines are a consensus work of a considerable number of members of the immunology and flow cytometry community. They provide the theory and key practical aspects of flow cytometry enabling immunologists to avoid the common errors that often undermine immunological data. Notably, there are comprehensive sections of all major immune cell types with helpful Tables detailing phenotypes in murine and human cells. The latest flow cytometry techniques and applications are also described, featuring examples of the data that can be generated and, importantly, how the data can be analysed. Furthermore, there are sections detailing tips, tricks and pitfalls to avoid, all written and peer-reviewed by leading experts in the field, making this an essential research companion.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Certificate in Equine Stud Medicine Examination
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 6
IS  - 1
SN  - 0957-7734
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3292.1994.tb01070.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3292.1994.tb01070.x
SP  - 2
EP  - 5
PY  - 1994
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stanimirovic, Danica
AU  - Satoh, Kei
TI  - Inflammatory Mediators of Cerebral Endothelium: A Role in Ischemic Brain Inflammation
JO  - Brain Pathology
VL  - 10
IS  - 1
SN  - 1015-6305
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1750-3639.2000.tb00248.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1750-3639.2000.tb00248.x
SP  - 113
EP  - 126
PY  - 2000
AB  - Brain inflammation has been implicated in the development of brain edema and secondary brain damage in ischemia and trauma. Adhesion molecules, cytokines and leukocyte chemoattractants released/presented at the site of blood-brain barrier (BBB) play an important role in mobilizing peripheral inflammatory cells into the brain. Cerebral endothelial cells (CEC) are actively engaged in processes of microvascular stasis and leukocyte infiltration by producing a plethora of pro-inflammatory mediators. When challenged by external stimuli including cytokines and hypoxia, CEC have been shown to release/express various products of arachidonic acid cascade with both vasoactive and pro-inflammatory properties, including prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and platelet-activating factor (PAF). These metabolites induce platelet and neutrophil activation and adhesion, changes in local cerebral blood flow and blood rheology, and increases in BBB permeability. Ischemic CEC have also been shown to express and release bioactive inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, including IL-I?, IL-8 and MCP-1. Many of these mediators and ischemia in vitro and in vivo have been shown to up-regulate the expression of both selectin and Ig-families of adhesion molecules in CEC and to facilitate leukocyte adhesion and transmigration into the brain. Collectively, these studies demonstrate a pivotal role of CEC in initiating and regulating inflammatory responses in cerebral ischemia. Summary Inflammatory genes/mediators are involved in molecular/biochemical cascades determining stroke outcome. Cerebral endothelial cells, targeted by inflammatory mediators produced in ischemic brain, undergo pro-inflammatory activation by expressing/secreting various inflammatory mediators, thus becoming a source of inflammation themselves. A unique position of the cerebral endothelial cells at the interface between blood and brain establishes their role as principal regulators of peripheral inflammatory cell recruitment into the brain during stroke. Cerebral endothelial cells also exhibit ability to regulate vasomotor responses of brain microcirculation and the permeability of the BBB, both important components of inflammation. Therefore, approaches to attenuate consequences of stroke must take into consideration cerebral endothelial cells as an easily accessible target to interfere with the ischemic brain inflammation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Harris, Scott M
AU  - Zhang, Lijuan
AU  - Parente, Jody
AU  - Rodeheaver, George T.
AU  - Falla, Timothy J.
TI  - 111 HB-50: A Pre-Clinical Study of a Prophylactic for Wound Infection
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 12
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractde.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractde.x
SP  - A29
EP  - A29
PY  - 2004
AB  - Topical prophylaxis against wound infection by an agent that is active against multi-resistant bacteria does not generate resistance and is rapidly cidal would be of great clinical benefit. Peptides of the innate immune system have long been known to protect a wide range of organisms from attack by bacterial and fungal pathogens. Helix BioMedix Inc. has developed a short bioactive peptide antimicrobial modeled after these peptides. HB-50 is an amphipathic cationic alpha-helical peptide that has broad spectrum activity and is rapidly microbicidal. These attributes make HB-50 an ideal candidate for wound infection prophylaxis. In vitro studies have demonstrated HB-50 to be active against both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria killing 5?7 log orders of bacteria within minutes. In addition, this peptide has potent activity against Vancomycin and Mupirocin resistant S. aureus. Preliminary testing of the peptide in a rat abraded skin infection model has shown the peptide?s effectiveness in preventing wound infection while not inhibiting wound healing. Additionally, the HB-50 sequence has been specifically developed to be cost effective to manufacture and therefore is well suited for use as a topical antimicrobial agent.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ward, Peter A.
TI  - New approaches to the study of sepsis
JO  - EMBO Molecular Medicine
JA  - EMBO Mol Med
VL  - 4
IS  - 12
SN  - 1757-4676
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/emmm.201201375
DO  - doi:10.1002/emmm.201201375
SP  - 1234
EP  - 1243
KW  - clinical trials
KW  - complement
KW  - interventions
KW  - mediators
KW  - sepsis
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Models of sepsis have been instructive in understanding the sequence of events in animals and, to an extent, in humans with sepsis. Events developing early in sepsis suggest that a hyperinflammatory state exists, accompanied by a buildup of oxidants in tissues reflective of a redox imbalance. Development of immunosuppression and degraded innate and adaptive immune responses are well-established complications of sepsis. In addition, there is robust activation of the complement system, which contributes to the harmful effects of sepsis. These events appear to be associated with development of multiorgan failure. The relevance of animal models of sepsis to human sepsis and the failure of human clinical trials are discussed, together with suggestions as to how clinical trial design might be improved.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zhang, Jia-xiang
AU  - Zha, Wan-sheng
AU  - Ye, Liang-ping
AU  - Wang, Feng
AU  - Wang, Hui
AU  - Shen, Tong
AU  - Wu, Chang-hao
AU  - Zhu, Qi-xing
C8  - JAT-15-0189.R1
TI  - Complement C5a–C5aR interaction enhances MAPK signaling pathway activities to mediate renal injury in trichloroethylene sensitized BALB/c mice
JO  - Journal of Applied Toxicology
JA  - J. Appl. Toxicol.
VL  - 36
IS  - 2
SN  - 0260-437X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jat.3179
DO  - doi:10.1002/jat.3179
SP  - 271
EP  - 284
KW  - trichloroethylene
KW  - C5a
KW  - C5aR
KW  - renal injury
KW  - MAPK
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract We have previously shown complement activation as a possible mechanism for trichloroethylene (TCE) sensitization, leading to multi-organ damage including the kidneys. In particular, excessive deposition of C5 and C5b-9-the membrane attack complex, which can generate significant tissue damage, was observed in the kidney tissue after TCE sensitization. The present study tested the hypothesis that anaphylatoxin C5a binding to its receptor C5aR mediates renal injury in TCE-sensitized BALB/c mice. BALB/c mice were sensitized through skin challenge with TCE, with or without pretreatment by the C5aR antagonist W54011. Kidney histopathology and the renal functional test were performed to assess renal injury, and immunohistochemistry and fluorescent labeling were carried out to assess C5a and C5aR expressions. TCE sensitization up-regulated C5a and C5aR expressions in kidney tissue, generated inflammatory infiltration, renal tubule damage, glomerular hypercellularity and impaired renal function. Antagonist pretreatment blocked C5a binding to C5aR and attenuated TCE-induced tissue damage and renal dysfunction. TCE sensitization also caused the deposition of major pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-2, TNF-α and IFN-? in the kidney tissue (P?<?0.05); this was accompanied by increased expression of P-p38, P-ERK and P-JNK proteins (P?<?0.05). Pretreatment with the C5aR antagonist attenuated the increase of expression of P-p38, P-ERK and P-JNK proteins (P?<?0.05) and also consistently reduced the TCE sensitization-induced increase of IL-2, TNF-α and IFN-? (P?<?0.05). These data identify C5a binding to C5aR, MAP kinase activation, and inflammatory cytokine release as a novel mechanism for complement-mediated renal injury by sensitization with TCE or other environmental chemicals. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gupte, A. A.
AU  - Hocevar, S. N.
AU  - Lea, A. S.
AU  - Kulkarni, R. D.
AU  - Schain, D. C.
AU  - Casey, M. J.
AU  - Zendejas-Ruiz, I. R.
AU  - Chung, W. K.
AU  - Mbaeyi, C.
AU  - Roy, S. L.
AU  - Visvesvara, G. S.
AU  - da Silva, A. J.
AU  - Tallaj, J.
AU  - Eckhoff, D.
AU  - Baddley, J. W.
TI  - Transmission of Balamuthia mandrillaris Through Solid Organ Transplantation: Utility of Organ Recipient Serology to Guide Clinical Management
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 14
IS  - 6
SN  - 1600-6135
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.12726
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.12726
SP  - 1417
EP  - 1424
KW  - Amebic encephalitis
KW  - Balamuthia mandrillaris
KW  - donor-derived infection
KW  - miltefosine
PY  - 2014
AB  - A liver, heart, iliac vessel and two kidneys were recovered from a 39-year-old man who died of traumatic head injury and were transplanted into five recipients. The liver recipient 18 days posttransplantation presented with headache, ataxia and fever, followed by rapid neurologic decline and death. Diagnosis of granulomatous amebic encephalitis was made on autopsy. Balamuthia mandrillaris infection was confirmed with immunohistochemical and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays. Donor and recipients' sera were tested for B. mandrillaris antibodies. Donor brain was negative for Balamuthia by immunohistochemistry and PCR; donor serum Balamuthia antibody titer was positive (1:64). Antibody titers in all recipients were positive (range, 1:64?1:512). Recipients received a four- to five-drug combination of miltefosine or pentamidine, azithromycin, albendazole, sulfadiazine and fluconazole. Nausea, vomiting, elevated liver transaminases and renal insufficiency were common. All other recipients survived and have remained asymptomatic 24 months posttransplant. This is the third donor-derived Balamuthia infection cluster described in solid organ transplant recipients in the United States. As Balamuthia serologic testing is only available through a national reference laboratory, it is not feasible for donor screening, but may be useful to determine exposure status in recipients and to help guide chemotherapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bayetto, K
AU  - Cheng, A
AU  - Sambrook, P
TI  - Necrotizing fasciitis as a complication of odontogenic infection: a review of management and case series
JO  - Australian Dental Journal
JA  - Aust Dent J
VL  - 62
IS  - 3
SN  - 0045-0421
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/adj.12508
DO  - doi:10.1111/adj.12508
SP  - 317
EP  - 322
KW  - Cervicofacial
KW  - fasciitis
KW  - infection
KW  - necrotizing
KW  - odontogenic
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Background The aims of the present study were to establish the incidence of head and neck necrotizing fasciitis (NF) in the Adelaide Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Unit; review the current literature regarding the management of head and neck NF; and determine the evidence for the role of hyperbaric oxygen therapy in the management of NF. Methods A retrospective audit of all patients admitted to the Royal Adelaide Hospital Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Unit 2006?2015 with severe odontogenic infections was carried out. Patient demographics were recorded and treatment details were collected and analysed. Results A total of 672 patients were admitted for management of severe odontogenic infections. Of these, three were identified as NF. One case was treated using hyperbaric oxygen as an adjunct to conventional surgical and medical management. Two cases were managed using aggressive surgical management alone. Two patients survived. The incidence of head and neck NF in South Australia is 48/100 000 infections per year. Conclusions The first-line treatment of severe odontogenic infections remains conventional surgical and medical management; however, hyperbaric oxygen therapy may have an additional role in the management of NF and other rare severe infections in medically complex patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Osman, Afaf S
AU  - Osman, Ahmed H
AU  - Kamel, Mahmoud M
TI  - Study of the protective effect of ischemic and pharmacological preconditioning on hepatic ischemic reperfusion injury induced in rats
JO  - JGH Open
JA  - JGH Open
VL  - 1
IS  - 3
SN  - 2397-9070
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jgh3.12018
DO  - doi:10.1002/jgh3.12018
SP  - 105
EP  - 111
KW  - hepatic ischemia/reperfusion
KW  - ischemic preconditioning
KW  - lisinopril
KW  - verapamil
PY  - 2017
AB  - Background and Aim Hepatic ischemia reperfusion injury is the main cause of liver failure following liver surgery, so an effective method is needed to prevent or reduce this hepatic injury. The aim of the present study is to investigate the potential effect of ischemic preconditioning versus pharmacological preconditioning with lisinopril or verapamil for protection against hepatic ischemia reperfusion injury induced in rats. Methods Rats were divided into six groups. Group I served as control untreated. Rats of group II were subjected to laparotomy without induction of ischemia reperfusion. Ischemia reperfusion by ligation of the portal trait for 30?min, followed by reperfusion for 2?h, was performed in rats of groups III?VI. Ischemic preconditioning was performed for rats of group IV before induction of ischemia reperfusion. Lisinopril and verapamil was given daily for 3?days before induction of ischemia reperfusion in groups V and VI, respectively. Serum level of liver transaminases and liver malondialdehyde content were measured, and hepatic histopathological examination was assessed. Results Induction of ischemia reperfusion resulted in significant elevation of liver transaminases and liver malondialdehyde content associated with significant hepatic histopathological injury that were significantly improved by ischemic preconditioning, lisinopril, or verapamil treatment. Verapamil showed the most significant improvement compared with ischemic preconditioning or lisinopril treatment. Conclusion Ischemic preconditioning and pharmacological preconditioning by lisinopril or verapamil can protect against hepatic ischemia reperfusion probably through inhibition of oxidative stress and neutrophil infiltration. The most potent protection is demonstrated by verapamil treatment.
ER  - 

AU  - Marshall, John C.
AU  - Malam, Zeenat
AU  - Jia, Songhui
C7  - pp. 53-72
TI  - Modulating Neutrophil Apoptosis
SN  - 9780470027981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470059593.ch5
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780470059593.ch5
SP  - 53-72
KW  - modulating neutrophil-apoptosis
KW  - Polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs)
KW  - bystander injury to host tissues in neutrophil activation
KW  - cellular mechanisms inhibiting apoptosis
KW  - pre-colony B cell enhancing factor (PBEF)
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary Polymorphonuclear neutrophils are short-lived phagocytic cells that serve as cardinal early cellular effectors of innate immunity. Both oxidative and non-oxidative mechanisms contribute to microbial killing by the neutrophil. Neutrophil defence mechanisms are potent but non-specific, with the result that inadvertent injury to host tissues commonly accompanies the activation of a neutrophil-mediated response; this bystander injury has been implicated in the tissue injury of sepsis. The capacity for neutrophils to cause injury to host tissues is attenuated by the relatively short in vivo lifespan of the neutrophil, a consequence of a constitutively expressed program of apoptosis. That program can be inhibited, and neutrophil survival prolonged, through the interaction of the neutrophil with a variety of mediators of both microbial and host origin. These, in turn, inhibit apoptosis by increasing the expression of anti-apoptotic genes within the neutrophil: interleukin (IL)1? and a novel cytokine-like molecule pre-B cell colonyenhancing factor (PBEF) are central to this inhibitory influence. Conversely, the phagocytosis of a micro-organism activates the apoptotic program, and so contributes to the resolution of acute inflammation. A complex series of interactions between the neutrophil and microorganisms or their products regulates the duration and intensity of an inflammatory response, and so provides an attractive target for therapeutic manipulation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Papapanou, Panos N.
AU  - Sanz, Mariano
AU  - Buduneli, Nurcan
AU  - Dietrich, Thomas
AU  - Feres, Magda
AU  - Fine, Daniel H.
AU  - Flemmig, Thomas F.
AU  - Garcia, Raul
AU  - Giannobile, William V.
AU  - Graziani, Filippo
AU  - Greenwell, Henry
AU  - Herrera, David
AU  - Kao, Richard T.
AU  - Kebschull, Moritz
AU  - Kinane, Denis F.
AU  - Kirkwood, Keith L.
AU  - Kocher, Thomas
AU  - Kornman, Kenneth S.
AU  - Kumar, Purnima S.
AU  - Loos, Bruno G.
AU  - Machtei, Eli
AU  - Meng, Huanxin
AU  - Mombelli, Andrea
AU  - Needleman, Ian
AU  - Offenbacher, Steven
AU  - Seymour, Gregory J.
AU  - Teles, Ricardo
AU  - Tonetti, Maurizio S.
TI  - Periodontitis: Consensus report of workgroup 2 of the 2017 World Workshop on the Classification of Periodontal and Peri-Implant Diseases and Conditions
JO  - Journal of Periodontology
JA  - J Periodontol
VL  - 89
IS  - S1
SN  - 9780470027981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/JPER.17-0721
DO  - doi:10.1002/JPER.17-0721
SP  - S173
EP  - S182
KW  - acute periodontal conditions
KW  - endo-periodontal lesion
KW  - necrotizing gingivitis
KW  - necrotizing periodontitis
KW  - periodontal abscess
KW  - periodontal disease
KW  - periodontitis
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract A new periodontitis classification scheme has been adopted, in which forms of the disease previously recognized as ?chronic? or ?aggressive? are now grouped under a single category (?periodontitis?) and are further characterized based on a multi-dimensional staging and grading system. Staging is largely dependent upon the severity of disease at presentation as well as on the complexity of disease management, while grading provides supplemental information about biological features of the disease including a history-based analysis of the rate of periodontitis progression; assessment of the risk for further progression; analysis of possible poor outcomes of treatment; and assessment of the risk that the disease or its treatment may negatively affect the general health of the patient. Necrotizing periodontal diseases, whose characteristic clinical phenotype includes typical features (papilla necrosis, bleeding, and pain) and are associated with host immune response impairments, remain a distinct periodontitis category. Endodontic-periodontal lesions, defined by a pathological communication between the pulpal and periodontal tissues at a given tooth, occur in either an acute or a chronic form, and are classified according to signs and symptoms that have direct impact on their prognosis and treatment. Periodontal abscesses are defined as acute lesions characterized by localized accumulation of pus within the gingival wall of the periodontal pocket/sulcus, rapid tissue destruction and are associated with risk for systemic dissemination.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Papapanou, Panos N.
AU  - Sanz, Mariano
AU  - Buduneli, Nurcan
AU  - Dietrich, Thomas
AU  - Feres, Magda
AU  - Fine, Daniel H.
AU  - Flemmig, Thomas F.
AU  - Garcia, Raul
AU  - Giannobile, William V.
AU  - Graziani, Filippo
AU  - Greenwell, Henry
AU  - Herrera, David
AU  - Kao, Richard T.
AU  - Kebschull, Moritz
AU  - Kinane, Denis F.
AU  - Kirkwood, Keith L.
AU  - Kocher, Thomas
AU  - Kornman, Kenneth S.
AU  - Kumar, Purnima S.
AU  - Loos, Bruno G.
AU  - Machtei, Eli
AU  - Meng, Huanxin
AU  - Mombelli, Andrea
AU  - Needleman, Ian
AU  - Offenbacher, Steven
AU  - Seymour, Gregory J.
AU  - Teles, Ricardo
AU  - Tonetti, Maurizio S.
TI  - Periodontitis: Consensus report of workgroup 2 of the 2017 World Workshop on the Classification of Periodontal and Peri-Implant Diseases and Conditions
JO  - Journal of Clinical Periodontology
JA  - J Clin Periodontol
VL  - 45
IS  - S20
SN  - 9780470027981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jcpe.12946
DO  - doi:10.1111/jcpe.12946
SP  - S162
EP  - S170
KW  - acute periodontal conditions
KW  - endo-periodontal lesion
KW  - necrotizing gingivitis
KW  - necrotizing periodontitis
KW  - periodontal abscess
KW  - periodontal disease
KW  - periodontitis
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract A new periodontitis classification scheme has been adopted, in which forms of the disease previously recognized as ?chronic? or ?aggressive? are now grouped under a single category (?periodontitis?) and are further characterized based on a multi-dimensional staging and grading system. Staging is largely dependent upon the severity of disease at presentation as well as on the complexity of disease management, while grading provides supplemental information about biological features of the disease including a history-based analysis of the rate of periodontitis progression; assessment of the risk for further progression; analysis of possible poor outcomes of treatment; and assessment of the risk that the disease or its treatment may negatively affect the general health of the patient. Necrotizing periodontal diseases, whose characteristic clinical phenotype includes typical features (papilla necrosis, bleeding, and pain) and are associated with host immune response impairments, remain a distinct periodontitis category. Endodontic-periodontal lesions, defined by a pathological communication between the pulpal and periodontal tissues at a given tooth, occur in either an acute or a chronic form, and are classified according to signs and symptoms that have direct impact on their prognosis and treatment. Periodontal abscesses are defined as acute lesions characterized by localized accumulation of pus within the gingival wall of the periodontal pocket/sulcus, rapid tissue destruction and are associated with risk for systemic dissemination.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts presented at the 10th World Congress of Veterinary Anaesthesia, 31st August–4th September 2009, Glasgow, UK
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 37
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780470027981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2010.00535a.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2010.00535a.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 88
PY  - 2010
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fullerton, James N
AU  - O'Brien, Alastair J
AU  - Gilroy, Derek W
TI  - Pathways mediating resolution of inflammation: when enough is too much
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 231
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470027981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.4232
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.4232
SP  - 8
EP  - 20
KW  - critical illness
KW  - sepsis
KW  - resolution of inflammation
KW  - apoptosis
KW  - efferocytosis
KW  - macrophage
KW  - lipid mediators
KW  - PGE2
KW  - T-regulatory cell
KW  - myeloid-derived suppressor cell
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Patients with critical illness, and in particular sepsis, are now recognized to undergo unifying, pathogenic disturbances of immune function. Whilst scientific and therapeutic focus has traditionally been on understanding and modulating the initial pro-inflammatory limb, recent years have witnessed a refocusing on the development and importance of immunosuppressive 'anti-inflammatory' pathways. Several mechanisms are known to drive this phenomenon; however, no overriding conceptual framework justifies them. In this article we review the contribution of pro-resolution pathways to this phenotype, describing the observed immune alterations in terms of either a failure of resolution of inflammation or the persistence of pro-resolution processes causing inappropriate ?injurious resolution??a novel hypothesis. The dysregulation of key processes in critical illness, including apoptosis of infiltrating neutrophils and their efferocytosis by macrophages, are discussed, along with the emerging role of specialized cell subtypes Gr1+ CD11b+ myeloid-derived suppressor cells and CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ T-regulatory cells. Copyright ? 2013 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ficarra, Mercedes
AU  - Ibana, Joyce S. A.
AU  - Poretta, Constance
AU  - Ma, Liang
AU  - Myers, Leann
AU  - Taylor, Stephanie N.
AU  - Greene, Sheila
AU  - Smith, Barbara
AU  - Hagensee, Michael
AU  - Martin, David H.
AU  - Quayle, Alison J.
TI  - ORIGINAL ARTICLE: A Distinct Cellular Profile Is Seen in the Human Endocervix During Chlamydia trachomatis Infection
JO  - American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
VL  - 60
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470027981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0897.2008.00639.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0897.2008.00639.x
SP  - 415
EP  - 425
KW  - Chlamydia trachomatis
KW  - endocervix
KW  - human
KW  - T lymphocyte
PY  - 2008
AB  - Problem? The endocervix is a major target of Chlamydia trachomatis infection, but little is known about the immune repertoire in this tissue, or its response to these common bacteria. Method of study? Using a cytobrush, we isolated cells from the endocervix of 20 women during C. trachomatis infection, and post-antibiotic treatment. Endocervical swabs and blood were taken in parallel. Endocervical cells were enumerated, and endocervical and blood T cells immunophenotyped. Chlamydia trachomatis was genotyped by sequence analysis of the OmpA gene, and quantified by culture. Results? Chlamydia trachomatis genotypes were D, E, F and Ia, and infectious burden varied considerably. Endocervical T cell and neutrophil numbers were highly elevated during infection, with both CD4 and CD8 T-cell subsets accumulating. Regardless of the presence or absence of infection, the endocervical cell infiltrate was dominated by effector memory T cells, and the numbers of CCR5 and CD103 expressing T cells was significantly higher than in the blood. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA-DR) expression by endocervical T cells was significantly increased during infection. Conclusion? The human endocervix exhibits a distinct cellular response to C. trachomatis infection that can be longitudinally evaluated by cytobrush sampling. Infecting organisms can be sampled and analyzed in parallel.
ER  - 
