
TY  - JOUR
TI  - What was your diagnosis?
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 36
IS  - 1
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.1995.tb02764.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.1995.tb02764.x
SP  - 39
EP  - 40
PY  - 1995
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kogure, Hirofumi
AU  - Watabe, Hirotsugu
AU  - Yamada, Atsuo
AU  - Isayama, Hiroyuki
AU  - Yamaji, Yutaka
AU  - Itoi, Takao
AU  - Koike, Kazuhiko
TI  - Spiral enteroscopy for therapeutic ERCP in patients with surgically altered anatomy: actual technique and review of the literature
JO  - Journal of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Sciences
JA  - Journal of Hepato‐Biliary‐Pancreatic Sciences
VL  - 18
IS  - 3
SN  - 1868-6974
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1007/s00534-010-0357-2
DO  - doi:10.1007/s00534-010-0357-2
SP  - 375
EP  - 379
KW  - spiral enteroscopy
KW  - ERCP
KW  - surgically altered anatomy
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Background Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and associated procedures are difficult to perform in patients with surgically altered anatomy. Recently, balloon enteroscopy (BE) has made it easier to perform ERCP in these patients. However, BE-assisted ERCP is often technically demanding and time consuming. Methods Spiral enteroscopy (SE), which has recently been developed, is a novel method of using a rotating overtube to pleat small bowel onto the enteroscope, thus advancing it through the lumen. We review the mechanism and efficacy of SE, especially in ERCP of patients with surgically altered anatomy, and report on the first patient to undergo ERCP using SE in Japan. Results Spiral enteroscopy-assisted ERCP seems to be feasible and safe in patients with surgically altered anatomy. Additionally, SE-assisted ERCP appears to be easier to perform than other methods previously described and allows stable positioning of the enteroscope in order to perform delicate therapeutic maneuvers. Conclusions SE for ERCP is expected to be at least as useful as balloon enteroscopy in patients with surgically altered anatomy.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 245-386
TI  - P
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118582121.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118582121.ch16
SP  - 245-386
KW  - packaging principle
KW  - pairing principle
KW  - panoptimization principle
KW  - pansystems principle
KW  - Papert's principle
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Packaging Principle Pairing Principle Panoptimization Principle Pansystems Principle Pansystems Relativity Method/Principle Pantograph's Parallelogram Principle Papert's Principle Pappus Centrold Principle Pappus' Principle Paradox Principle Paradox-Tolerating Principle Parallel Resolution Principle Parallelogram Principle Parametric Ekeland Variational Principle Parameterized Proof Principle Parameterized Proof Principle Pareto Principle Pareto Principle of Optimal Design of Experiments Paris Principle Parity Principle Parr-Pearson Principle Parsimony Principle Part-Current Principle Partial Likelihood Principle Pascal's Principle Paschen's Principle Pater Principle Paternoster's Principle Path Principle Patience Principle Pauli Antisymmetry and Exclusion Principle Pauli Exclusion Principle Pauli Principle Pauli-Ferm Principle Pavlov's Principle Pearson Principle Pearson-Penaz Principle Peelian Principle Penaz Principle Pendulum Principle Peng's Principle Penny Principle Percolation Principle Perfect Cosmological Principle Perfection Principle Performativity Principle Peristaltic Principle Permaculture Principles Permanence of Mathematical Relations Principle Permutation Principle Persona Principle Perturbation Invariance Principle Peter Principle Peterbilt Principle Phase Angle Principle Phase Contrast Principle Phase Matching Principle Phase Separation Principle Phased Capture Principle Phonetic Principle Photoelectric Barrier Principle Phragmén-Lindelöf Principle Physical Principle of Computation Physiochemical Principle Picard Principle Pigeonhole Principle Pigeonhole Principle Pigou-Dalton Transfer Principle Pilates Principle Pinch Principle Pipeline Principle Pitzer Corresponding States Principle Piu Principle 1 Piu Principle 2 Piu Principle 3 Piu Principle 4 Piu Principle 5 Piu Principle 6 Piu Principle 7 Piu Principle 8 Piu Principle 9 Piu Principle 10 Place Principle Planck Principle Planck Radiation Principle Pleasure Principle Pleasure Principle Pleasure?Pain Principle Pleasure?Unpleasure Principle Plunger Magnet Principle Plus/Minus Interaction Principle Poincaré's Holomorphic Principle Poincaré's Principle Point of Principle Pointer Processing Principle Pointwise Maximum Principle Polanyi?Evans?Bell Principle Police Principles Poliquin Principle Polishing Principle Political Principle Polluter Pays Principle Pollyanna Principle Pólya?Szegö Principle Polymer Principle Polyuronid Active Principle Pome Poncelet's Continuity Principle Pontryagin's Discrete-Time Maximum Principle Pontryagin's Discrete-Time Minimum Principle Pontryagin's Maximum Principle (PMP) Pontryagin's Minimum Principle (PMP) Positionality Principle Pontryagin's Principle Positioning Principle Positive-Displacement Principle Posner Principle Potential Energy Minimization Principle Potential Principle Powdering Principle Power Principle Prado's Principle Prägnanz Principle Pratt's Principle Precaution Principle Precautionary Principle Premack Principle Pressure Crushing Principle Pressure Differential Principle Pressure Principle Priest Tang Ruowang's Principle Prigogine?Glansdorff Principle Prigogine Principle Prigogine's Principle of Minimum Entropy Priming Principle Priming Principle Regimen Administration Princeton Principles Principal-Component Analysis Principle Principle A: Beneficence and Nonmaleficence Principle B: Fidelity and Responsibility Principle C: Integrity Principle D: Justice Principle E: Respect for People's Rights and Dignity Principles and Parameters Theory Principle Authority Level Principle-Based Negotiating Principle-Eased Parser Principle-Centered Leadership Principle-Centered Living Principle-Centered Spine Care Principle Commitment Principle Critical Parameters Principle Kk Principle Molecular Dynamics Principle of a Ball Piston Pump Principle of Absoluteness Principle of Absoluteness of Responsibility Principle of Acquisition Principle of Acquisition Reform Principle of Action Principle of Actualism Principle of Alternatives Principle of an Ice Cream Maker Principle of Angular Echo Spectroscopy Principle of Archimedes Principle of Area Principle of Assumption Principle of Assurance of Objective Principle of Assurance of Objective Principle of Authority and Responsibility Principle of Authority and Responsibility Principle of Avoiding Conflict Principle of Balance Principle of Balance Principle of Belt Filter Press See Filter Press Principle Principle of Beneficence Principle of Beneficence Principle of Bioelectrical Impedance Principle of Bit/Digit-Serial Design Principle of Bit-Parallel Addition Principle of Bivalence Principle of Bivalence Principle of Black Hole Complementarity Principle of Braun?Le Chatelier Principle of Briquetting Principle of Buoyancy Principle of Burst Principle of Calculation Principle of Calorimetry Principle of Carathéodony Principle of Categorical Scope Principle of Causality Principle of Cause and Effect Principle of Cell Surface Receptor Principle of Centralization Principle of Change Principle of Charge Conservation Principle of Charity Principle of Chiral Interaction Principle of Choice of Optimal Decisions Principle of Choosing Optimal Algorithms Principle of Closure Principle of Cofinality Principle of Cognitive Dissonance Principle of Comparative Advantage Principle of Competitive Exclusion Principle of Competitive Strategies Principle of Competitive Strategies Principle of Complementarity Principle of Complementary Energy Principle of Complete Induction Principle of Composition of the Translations Principle of Compositionality Principle of Computational Equivalence Principle of Computed Tomography Principle of Concentration Principle of Conceptual Design Principle of Conferral Principle of Congregation Principle of Congruence Principle of Conjugated Chemical Reactions Principle of Conservation of Energy Principle of Conservation of Matter Principle of Conservation of Matter and Energy Principle of Conservation of Momentum Principle of Conservation of Total Vorticity Principle of Conservation of Work Principle of Constancy Principle of Constancy Principle of Constancy's Opposite Principle of Constant Proportions Principle of Construction and Operation Principle of Contiguity Principle of Continuity of Velocity Principle of Continuous Choice Principle of Contradiction Principle of Contrast Principle of Contradiction Principle of Contribution to Objectives Principle of Control Principle of Control Responsibility Principle of Conventionality Principle of Cooperation Principle of Coordination Principle of Correspondence Principle of Corresponding Rheological States Principle of Corresponding States Principle of Counting Constants Principle of Covariance Principle of Critical Plow Principle of Critical-Point Control Principle of Cross-Cutting Relationships Principle of Cross-Entropy Principle of Current Distribution Principle of D'Alembert Principle of Dandy Roll Principle of Decomposition Principle of Deducibility for Justification (PDJ) Principle of Delayed Gratification Principle of Definite Proportions Principle of Delegation Principle of Delegation by Results Expected Principle of Diastereometric Ion Pair Formation Principle of Dichotomy Principle of Differential Ph Measurement Principle of Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) Principle of Digit-Serial Addition for Digits of 2 Bits Principle of Direct Contact Principle of Direct Control Principle of Direct Supervision Principle of Directing Principle of Discipline Principle of Discrimination Principle of Displacement Principle of Dissolution of Function Principle of Distal-to-Proximal Development Principle of Distributivity Principle of Division of Work Principle of Do No Harm Principle of Dominance Modification Principle of Dominant Subsystems Principle of Domination Principle of Double Effect Principle of Duality Principle of Dulong and Petit Principle of Dynamic Ecology Principle of Dynamic Optimization Principle of Economy Principle of Effect Principle of Efficiency Principle of Efficiency of Controls Principle of Efficiency of Plans Principle of Efficient Communication Principle of Elasticity or Minimum Work Principle of Electromagnetic Induction Principle of Electronegativity Principle of Emancipation Principle of Empathy Principle of Energy Conservation Principle of Entropy Principle of Entropy Maximization Principle of Epilepsy Treatment Principle of Epistemic Closure Principle of Equal a Priori Probabilities Principle of Equicontinuity Principle of Equilibrium Principle of Equipartition of Energy Principle of Equipartition of Energy Principle of Equity Principle of Equivalence Principle of Equivalence Principle of Equivalence of Mass and Energy Principle of Equivalent Proportions Principle of Esprit De Corps Principle of Ethical Suitability Principle of Exact Reciprocity Principle of Excellence Principle of Excluded Middle Principle of Extendibility Principle of External Effects Principle of Factor Sparsity Principle of Faunal Succession Principle of Faunal Succession Principle of Filter Belt Press Principle of Finite Character Principle of Flexibility Principle of Flexibility of Controls Principle of Flexibility of Controls Principle of Flotation Deinking Principle of Fluid Orificing Principle of Fourier Transform Infrared Photoacoustic Spectroscopy Principle of Free Domain Principle of Frictional Charge Generation Principle of Functional Definition Principle of Functional Delegation Principle of Fundamental Characteristics Principle of Fundamental Justice Principle of Fundamentality Principle of Gainsharing Principle of Galilean Relativity Principle of Gender Principle of General Covariance Principle of Generic Consistency (PGC) Principle of Global Positioning System (GPS) Principle of Good Enough (POGE) Principle of Governing of Dissipative Processes Principle of Graeffe's Method Principle of Guldberg and Waage Principle of Habeas Mentem Principle of Harmony of Objectives Principle of Heavy Media Separation Principle of Heredity Principle of Histological Determination Principle of Holism Principle of Homeopathy Principle of Homo Typons Principle of Hope Principle of Hough Transform Representation Principle of Humanitarianism Principle of Humanity Principle of Hydraulic Fracturing Principle of Hypercomputation Upper Bounds Principle of Identity Principle of Immediate Gratification Principle of Impartiality Principle of Inaccesibility Principle of Inclusion?Exclusion Principle of Independence Principle of Indeterminacy Principle of Indifference Principle of Indiscernibles Principle of Individual Differences Principle of Individuality of Controls Principle of Indulgence Principle of Inertia Principle of Inertial Confinement Principle of Information Diffusion Principle of Inhibition Principle of Instant Gratification Principle of Insufficient Reason Principle of Integrating Interests Principle of Intercultural Communication Principle of Interference Principle of Invariance Principle of Invariant Imbedding Principle of Isomorphism Principle of Isostasy Principle of Job Definition Principle of Ju Principle of Just Enough Principle of Just Return Principle of Justice Principle of Kalman Filter Principle of Karma Principle of Kuan His Principle of Land Management Principle of Large Deviations Principle of Laser Speckle Flowgraphy Principle of Lateral Continuity Principle of Leadership Facilitation Principle of Learning Principle of Least Action Principle of Least Astonishment Principle of Least Authority (POLA) Principle of Least Constraint Principle of Least Effort Principle of Least Knowledge Principle of Least Motion Principle of Least Nuclear Motion Principle of Least Privilege Principle of Least Resistance Principle of Least Squares Principle of Least Surprise Principle of Least Time Principle of Least Wave Change Principle of Least Work Principle of Lex Talionis Principle of Limiting Factor Principle of Linear Momentum Principle of Linear Superposition Principle of Lines of Command Chain Principle of Linguistic Relativity Principle of Liquid Displacement Principle of Local Action Principle of Local Straightness of Curves Principle of Locality Principle of Logical Effort Principle of Macroscopic Separability Principles of Magnetohydrodynamics Principle of Majority Rule Based on Decisionmaking Power Demand Principle of Management Principle of Management Audit Principle of Management Development Principle of Managerial Appraisal Principle of Mass Action Principle of Material Frame Indifference Principle of Material Objectivity Principle of Mathematical Induction Principle of Maximal Dissipation Rate Principle of Maximum Boredom Principle of Maximum Complementary Energy Principle of Maximum Decision Efficiency Principle of Maximum Entropy (PME) Principle of Maximum Entropy on the Mean (PMEM) Principle of Maximum Hardness (PMH) Principle of Maximum Likelihood Principle of Maximum Nonaditive Entropy Principle of Maximum Pessimism Principle of Maximum U Uncertainty Principle of Maximum Work Principle of Mean Fitness Maximization Principle of Measurement Principle of Mechanics Principle of Mediocrity Principle of Mental Transmutation Principle of Mentalism Principle of Microscopic Reversibility Principle of Microreversibility Principle of Minimal Causation Principle of Minimal Privilege Principle of Minimum Astonishment Principle of Minimum Chi Square Principle of Minimum Cross-Entropy Principle of Minimum Discrimination Information (MDI) Principle of Minimum Dissipation Principle of Minimum Divergence Principle of Minimum Energy Principle of Minimum Energy Dissipation Principle of Minimum Expected Number of Observations in Sequential Analysis Principle of Minimum Inventory Level Principle of Minimum Kinetic Energy Principle of Minimum Mechanical Energy Principle of Minimum Potential Energy Principle of Minimum Surprise Principle of Minimum Total Potential Energy Principle of Mixtures Principle of Moments Principle of Momentum Principle of Monomutations Principle of Multiple Coding Principle of Multiple Proportions Principle of Mutual Help Principle of Napier's Bones Principle of Navigational Change Principle of Negative Freedom Principle of Neper's Bones Principle of Network Entropy Maximization Principle of Network Management Resources (NMR) Principle of Neurolinguistic Programming (NLP) Principle of Neutrality (NT) Principle of Nonimaging Principle of Nernst Principle of Noncontradiction Principle of Nonmaleficence Principle of Nonperfect Syncronization (PNS) Principle of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy Principle of Nucleation Principle of Numerology Principle of Object Oriented Design Principle of Object Scope Principle of Observational Compatibility Principle of Occam's Razor Principle of Octaves Principle of Oneness Principle of Open Competition in Promotion Principle of Operation Principle of Operational Compatibility Principle of Operationism Principle of Optical Bleaching Principle of Optical Coupling Principle of Optical Isolating Principle of Optical Phase Contrast Principle of Optimal Choice of Players Principle of Optimal Choice of Portfolio Principle of Optimal Feature Extraction in Pattern Recognition Principle of Optimal Reliability Principle of Optimality Principle of Order Principles of Organic Ion Radical Reactivity Principle of Organizational Suitability Principle of Organizing Cell Structure Principle of Original Horizontality Principle of Original Horizontality Principle of Osmosis Principle of Overcompensation Principle of Parallelism Principle of Parity Conservation Principle of Parity of Authority Principle of Parity of Authority and Responsibility Principle of Parsimonius Data Modeling Principle of Parsimony Principle of Part-Whole Determination Perceptual Assimilation Principle of Partial Pressures Principle of Particle Growth Retarding Principle of Passive Concentration Principle of Perception Principle of Performing Signal-Processing Operations Principle of Permanence Principle of Perpendicular Magnetization Principle of Perceptual Context Principle of Persistent Identifiers Principle of Per Survtvor Processing Principle of Photochemical Equivalence Principle of Photothermolysis Principle of Physical Timing Principle of Planetary Rotation Revolution Principle of Planning Principle of Planning Premises Principle of Plenitude Principle of Plurality Principle of Pneumatic Conveyance Principle of Polarity Principle of Policy Framework Principle of Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Principle of Polymerase Chain Reaction Principle of Population Principle of Positional Determinacy Principle of Power Principle of Prägnanz Principle of Preemption Principle of Pressure Swing Desorption Principle of Primacy of Planning Principle of Priority Principle of Prohibition of Reformatio in Peius Principle of Propagation of a Magnetic Traveling Wave Principle of Proportionality Principle of Proportionality Principle of Proportionate Punishment Principle of Proselytism Principle of Protection-Scale Selectivity Principle of Proximal Isovelocity Surface Area Principle of Proximity Principle of Psychoneuroimmunology Principle of Pulse-Code Modulation Principle of Pulse Variation Principle of Purpose Principle of Quantum Electrodynamics Principle of Quantum Reality Principle of Raid Method Principle of Rational Accommodation Principle of Rational Indices Principle of Rationality Principle of Reaction Principle of Reasonableness Principle of Reciprocal Inhibition Principle of Reciprocal Proportions Principle of Reciprocity Principle of Rectification Principle of Recurrent Causality Principle of Reference Principle of Reflection Principle of Reflection of Plans Principle of Reformatio in Peius Principle of Reinforcement Principle of Relationship Principle of Relativity Principle of Relevance Principle of Reliable Intuition Principle of Remuneration Principle of Representation Theory Principle of Respect for National Sovereignty Principle of Responsibility Principle of Restitutio in Integrum Principle of Retributive Justice Principle of Revealed Preference Principle of Reversibility Principle of Rhythm Principle of Route Choice Principle of Saint Venant's Principle of Saturation Analysis Principle of Scalar Chain Principle of Sb Electrode Principle of Sedimentation Principle of Selection Potential Principle of Self-Defense Principle of Self-Interest Principle of Self-Oscillations Principle of Separation Principle of Separation Principle of Separation?Individuation Principle of Similarity Principle of Simplicity Principle of Solidarity Principle of Step Wise Decision Making Principle of Strong Tranquility Principle of Weak Tranquility Principle of Simplicity Principle of Smooth Fit Principle of Somatomental Balance Principle of Sound Organizing Principle of Spacetime Reciprocity Principle of Special Relativity Principle of Specialization Principle of Spinor Superposition Principle of Stability of Tenure Principle of Stable Disequilibrium Principle of Staffing Principle of Staffing Principle of Staffing Objective Principle of Staffing Objectives Principle of Standards Principle of Standards Principle of Stationary Action Principle of Stationary Phase Principle of Statistical Mechanics Principle of Steam Dispersion Principle of Stepwise Decisionmaking Principle of Stepwise Reversibility Principle of Stereoscopic Image Principle of Stevino Principle of Stochastic Control Principle of Stochastic Modeling Principle of Strong Induction Principle of Structural Lag Principle of Structural Protection Principle of Structure-Activity Relationships (SAR) Principle of Subjective Freedom Principle of Subordination of Individual to General Interest Principle of Subsidiarity Principle of Subsidiarity Principle of Substance Stability Principle of Sufficiency and Necessity Principle of Sufficient Reason Principle of Sufficient Reason of Acting Principle of Sufficient Reason of Becoming Principle of Sufficient Reason of Being Principle of Sufficient Reason of Knowing Principle of Superposition Principle of Superposition Principle of Superposition Principle of Superposition of Waves Principle of Supervisory Techniques Principle of Symmetric Bracket Invariance Principle of Symmetric Criticality Principle of Symmetry Principle of Synoptic Antagonism Principle of the Activated Double Bond Principle of the Aerosol Particle Mass Analyzer (APM) Principle of the Argument Principle of the Argument Principle of the Centre-Periphery Principle of the Autonomy of the Will Principle of the Deflection Balances Principle of the ?Detained? Electron Principle of the Doppler Effect Principle of the Equality of Moments Principle of the Equipartition of Energy Principle of the Excluded Third Principle of the Form Impulse. (FORMTRIEB) Principle of the Hough Transform Principle of the International Economic Order Principle of the Maximum Principle of the Middle Way Principle of the Minimum Principle of the Minimum Principle of the Objective of Staffing Principle of the Poor Law Of Principle of the Proper Modulating Function Principle of the ?Released? Electron Principle of the Salutogenetic Triad Principle of the Transmission Electron Microscope Principle of the Uniqueness of Free Fall Principle of Thermally Stimulated Current (TSC) Principle of Thirds Principle of Time Invariance Principle of Time Gating Principle of Timing Principle of Time Domain Principle of Tissue Determination Principle of Total Control Principle of Total Differential Principle of Training Principle of Training of the Maximum Principle of Transfer Coding Principle of Transfinite Induction Principle of Transformation Groups Principle of Translatin Quantitativity Principle of Transitivity Principle of Ultrasonic Plastic Welding Principle of Uncertainty Principle of Undulatory Invariance Principle of Uniformitarianism Principle of Uniformity Principle of Uniformity Principle of Uniqueness Principle of Unity Principle of Unity of Command Principle of Unity of Direction Principle of Unity of Objective Principle of Universal Development Principle of Universal Gravitation Principle of Universality Principle of Univocal Determination Principle of Variance Minimization Principle of Velocity/Acceleration Combination Principle of Vibration Principle of Vibration Measurement Principle of Virtual Power Principle of Virtual Velocity Principle of Virtual Work Principle of Vis Viva Principle of Volumes [Chemistry] Principle of Waterstop Function Principle of Weak Induction Principle of Whole-Part Determination Principle of Work Principle of X-Ray Computed Tomography Principle of Zero Waste Principle Remifentanil Principle That the Polluter Pays Principle to the Dual Pressure Principles for Networked World Principles of Attention Stress Principles of Biomedical Ethics Principles of Chemical Compositions Principles of Compiler Design Principles of Conditions for Equilibrium Principles of Darcy's Law Principles of Determination Principles of Economics Principles of Energetics Principles of Ethics Principles of Flight Principles of Hough Transform Representation Principles of Human Effectiveness Principles of Intelligent Urbanism (PIU) Principles of Ion Transfer Principles of Justice Principles of Jus in Bello Principles of Military Strategy Principles of Multiple Function Principles of Neurolinguistic Programming (NLP) Principles of Nyquist's Theorem Principles of Overdetermination Principles of Patient Care Principles of Perception Principles of Philosophy Principles of Political Economy and Taxation Principles of Psychology Principles of Revolution Principle of the Vital Few Principles of Theoretical Logic Principles of Therapy of HIV Infection Principles of Uncertainty Principles of Uncertainty and Information Invariance Principles of Unitarian Univeralism Principles of Unity Principles of Vapor-Liquid Equilibria Principles of War Principles of Warfare Principles of Zoological Philosophy Priority Principle Privacy Principle Proactionary Principle Probablistic Exclusion Principle Process Principle Processing Principle Producer/Consumer Principle Product Solution Principle Production Principle Profit Impact of Market Strategies (PIMS) Principles Projection Principle Proof of Principle Proof Principle Proportional Induction Principle Protection Principle Proximal-Distal Principle Proximate Principle Proximity Compatibility Principle Proximity Principle Prudent Avoidance Principle Pseudo-Generalized Variational Principle (GVP) Pseudo-2-Path Principle Psychology Principles Pull Principle Pulse Coincidence Principle Pulse Echo Principle Pulse Oximetry Principle Pulse Transit-Time Principle Pulsed Doppler Principle Punctuation Principle Pungent Principle Punishment Principle Push Principle Pythagoras Principle
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Taylor, Polly
AU  - Coumbe, Karen
AU  - Henson, Frances
AU  - Scott, David
AU  - Taylor, Alan
TI  - Evaluation of sedation for standing clinical procedures in horses using detomidine combined with buprenorphine
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 41
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12055
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12055
SP  - 14
EP  - 24
KW  - alpha2 adrenoceptor agonist
KW  - buprenorphine
KW  - detomidine
KW  - equine
KW  - opioid
KW  - sedation
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Objectives To examine the effect of including buprenorphine with detomidine for sedation of horses undergoing clinical procedures. Study design Partially blinded, randomised, prospective clinical field trial. Animals Eighty four client-owned horses scheduled for minor surgery or diagnostic investigation under standing sedation. Methods The effects of buprenorphine (5 ?g kg?1) (Group B, n = 46) or placebo (5% glucose solution) (Group C, n = 38) in combination with detomidine (10 ?g kg?1) were compared in standing horses undergoing minor clinical procedures. The primary outcome measure was successful completion of the procedure. The degree of sedation and ataxia were scored using simple descriptive scales. Heart and respiratory rates were recorded at 15?30 minute intervals. Parametric data from each group were compared using anova or t-test and non parametric data using the Mann?Whitney U test. Results The procedure was carried out successfully in 91% of Group B and 63% of Group C (p < 0.01). Repeat dosing was required in 24% of Group B and 32% of Group C (p < 0.05). Sedation was more profound and lasted longer (60 versus 45 minutes) in Group B (p < 0.01). Ataxia occurred after detomidine, increased after buprenorphine but not glucose administration, was more profound in group B and lasted longer (60 versus 30 minutes) p < 0.001). Heart and respiratory rates remained within normal limits in both groups and there were no serious adverse events. Conclusions and clinical relevance Buprenorphine 5 and 10 ?g kg?1 enhanced the sedation produced by detomidine 10 and 20 ?g kg?1 with minor side effects similar to other alpha2 agonist/opioid combinations. Detomidine?buprenorphine sedation is suitable for standing procedures in horses.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Book Reviews
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 17
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.1976.tb06990.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.1976.tb06990.x
SP  - 487
EP  - 489
PY  - 1976
AB  - Book reviewed in this article: An Introduction to Experimental Surgery. Edited by J. de Boer, J. Archibald and H. G. Downie The Export and Import of Dogs and Cats: A handbook of regulations: 2nd Edition, 1975
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schiro-Harvey,             K.
AU  - Diamond, R.
AU  - Jones, A.
AU  - Buss, J.
TI  - Relationship of Hypoalbuminemia to Multiple Clinical Factors in Hemodialysis Patients
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 8
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2004.0085bl.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2004.0085bl.x
SP  - 102
EP  - 103
PY  - 2004
AB  - Research shows that low albumin is correlated with higher morbidity and mortality in the dialysis population. The reasons for this are multi-factorial and may be related to inadequate protein intake, infection and sepsis, inadequate dialysis, or catabolism of uremia. USRDS data show that ESRD Network 16 tends to have lower albumins compared to other ESRD Networks. Objective:? To evaluate albumin status of HD patients at Puget Sound Kidney Centers, Everett, WA (ESRD Network 16) and identify potential factors that may put patients at risk of hypoalbuminemia. Methods:? Clinical and biochemical data were collected for 3 months on 221 HD patients. Data included serum albumin (bromcresol purple), calcium, phosphorus, CO2, Hct, % saturation, ferritin, PTH, BUN, Kt/V, URR, nPCR, hours of HD treatment, interdialytic fluid weight gains, DW changes, incidence of infection and hospitalization, catheter use for dialysis access, presence of diabetes and other co-morbidities, dialyzer reuse, social/psychological status, and use of nutrition supplements. All biochemical data were collected after the longest interdialytic period and analyzed at the same reference laboratory. Data were averaged for each patient for the 3 months and correlations between parameters were determined using Chi-square analysis. Results:? 25% of all patients had albumins <3.2?g/dL (reference range for normal population 3.5?5.0?g/dL). Patients with lower albumins were significantly more likely to have DM (p?<?0.02), use catheters for HD access (p?<?0.001), had infections during the previous month (p?<?0.001), been hospitalized during the previous month (p?<?0.002), have co-morbid issues (p?<?0.001), and use nutrition supplements (p?<?0.002). No other factors were significantly correlated with lower albumin. Conclusion:? Factors other than nutrition seem to be related to hypoalbuminemia. This study has prompted improved protocols for catheter care and use, infection control, and early intervention for nutrition supplement use. Increased screening and monitoring at-risk patients (those with diabetes and other co-morbid conditions) has resulted in improved patient care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - DIK, K. J.
AU  - van den BELT, A. J. M.
AU  - KEG, P. R.
TI  - Ultrasonographic evaluation of fetlock annular ligament constriction in the horse
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 23
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1991.tb03719.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1991.tb03719.x
SP  - 285
EP  - 288
PY  - 1991
AB  - Summary The diagnosis of restriction of free movement of the flexor tendons through the fetlock canal usually rests on the characteristic clinical appearance of this condition, or air-tendography. In a series of seven normal Warmblood horses and 16 diseased horses of various breeds, the efficacy of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of this condition was determined. In normal limbs, the annular ligament is a very thin structure usually not visible on sonograms. In diseased limbs, ultrasonography outlined flexor tendon injury, distension and thickening of the digital sheath, peritendovaginal tissue proliferation and thickening of the annular ligament. Four different types of constriction syndrome were noticed. The first type (nine cases), was characterised by thickening of the annular ligament and distension of the digital sheath; the second type (three cases) was dominated by distension of the digital sheath; the third type (three cases) was characterised by superficial digital flexor tendon injury and thickening of the annular ligament and in the fourth type (one case), the constriction resulted from distension of the digital sheath and extensive peritendovaginal tissue proliferation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lecoindre, P.
AU  - Bystricka, M.
AU  - Chevallier, M.
AU  - Peyron, C.
TI  - Gastric carcinoma associated with Menetrier's-like disease in a West Highland white terrier
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 53
IS  - 12
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2012.01291.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2012.01291.x
SP  - 714
EP  - 718
PY  - 2012
AB  - A seven-year-old West Highland white terrier was presented for chronic vomiting associated with mild regenerative anaemia and hypoalbuminaemia. Further examination showed a giant polypoid cerebriform mass located in the lesser curvature of the stomach. Partial gastrectomy was performed and histology was consistent with hypertrophic gastritis with typical features of Ménétrier's disease. Five years after surgery, the dog was re-examined for recurrence of vomiting episodes. Endoscopy showed ulceration of the lesser curvature of the stomach and histological analysis revealed a poorly differentiated superficial gastric carcinoma surrounded by hypertrophic gastritis. To the authors? knowledge, this is the second time that coexistence of these two types of lesions is reported, suggesting that recurrence of gastritis could be the starting point of the tumoural process.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kessler, Chad S.
AU  - Leone, Katrina A.
TI  - The Current State of Core Competency Assessment in Emergency Medicine and a Future Research Agenda: Recommendations of the Working Group on Assessment of Observable Learner Performance
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
JA  - Acad Emerg Med
VL  - 19
IS  - 12
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/acem.12023
DO  - doi:10.1111/acem.12023
SP  - 1354
EP  - 1359
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract In 2012, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) introduced the Next Accreditation System (NAS) for residency program accreditation. With implementation of the NAS, residents are assessed according to a series of new emergency medicine (EM)-specific performance milestones, and the frequency of assessment reporting is increased. These changes are driving the development of new assessment tools for the NAS that can be feasibly implemented by EM residency programs and that produce valid and reliable assessment data. This article summarizes the recommendations of the writing group on assessment of observable learner performance at the 2012 Academic Emergency Medicine consensus conference on education research in EM that took place on May 9, 2012, in Chicago, Illinois. The authors define an agenda for future assessment tool research and development that was arrived at by consensus during the conference.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Monday, December 4, 2006 Platform Highlights Session A 3:45 p.m.–5:45 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 47
IS  - s4
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_1.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_1.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 7
PY  - 2006
AB  - 1 Kristen M. Fowler, 2 Joseph M. Massaro, 3 Cynthia L. Harden, 4 Michael R. Sperling, 5 Page B. Pennell, 1 Donald L. Schomer, 4 Joyce D. Liporace, 3 Blagovast Nikolov, 4 Gwendolyn Taylor, 5 Melanee Newman, and 1 Andrew G. Herzog ( 1 Harvard Neuroendocrine Unit, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ; 2 Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, MA ; 3 Neurology, Weill Cornell Medical School, New York, NY ; 4 Neurology, Thomas Jefferson University Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA ; and 5 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Past observations in small studies have suggested that seizures may not occur randomly in the majority of women with epilepsy. They often tend to cluster (Tauboll et al. 1991; Bauer et al. 2001; Haut S et al. 2006). Systematic investigations in large prospective investigations, however, are lacking. The purpose of this investigation was to determine the distribution of seizure occurrence in women with localization related epilepsy. Methods: The present data come from the first 100 women, aged 13?45, who were participating in the baseline phase of a multicenter investigation of supplemental progesterone therapy for the treatment of intractable seizures in women with localization related epilepsy. The women recorded seizures and menses during 3 baseline menstrual cycles. A midluteal progesterone level ≥ 5 ng/ml was used to identify ovulatory cycles. The goodness of fit of the Poisson distribution to the distribution of seizures during the combined three-cycle observation period in each woman with ≥10 seizures was tested by chi square analysis. ?2 values >5.99 identified women with nonrandom seizure distributions. Nonrandom distributions were further categorized as uniform (variance/mean < 1) or clustered (variance/mean >1). Results were similar to an alternative method of testing nonrandom distributions against a uniform distribution for each subject using the Pearson chi square statistic with categorization as clustered if p value was ≤ .05. Results: 75 women had ≥10 seizures over the 3 month observation period. Seizure distributions in these 75 women were random in 29 (38.7%). Among the remaining 46 (61.3%) who had non-random distributions, 6 (8.0%) had uniform distributions and 40 (53.3%) had clustered distributions. Clustering was significantly more pronounced among women with anovulatory cycles than among women with ovulatory cycles (variance/mean ± 2 SD = 6.1 ± 5.3 vs 2.2 ± 1.7; t-test for independent samples: p = .006). No correlation was demonstrated between clustering and age of subjects, age of epilepsy onset, duration of epilepsy, EEG laterality and individual AEDs. Conclusions: The preliminary findings of this prospective study suggest that the majority (53.3%) of women with localization related epilepsy have clustered seizure distributions and that clustering may be significantly more common with anovulatory than ovulatory cycles. (Supported by NIH RO1 NS39466.) 1 Mark Quigg, 2 Nicholas M. Barbaro, 3 Kenneth D. Laxer, 2 Marianne L. Ward, and Epilepsy Radiosurgery Study Group ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; 2 Neurological Surgery, University of California San Francisco, Charlottesville, VA ; and 3 Neurology, University California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKS) offers an alternative to open surgery for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), but its safety and efficacy are not well-established. We report the two year outcome on seizure remission and morbidities of a multicenter, prospective pilot study of GKS. Methods: Patients had unilateral MTLE as determined by standard presurgical evaluation. GKS, randomized to 20 Gy or 24 Gy comprising 5.0?7.5mL at the 50% isodose volume, was performed on mesial structures including the amygdala, hippocampus, and parahippocampal gyrus. Treatment plans were approved at a central site to insure uniformity of lesions. Patients and primary treating physicians were blinded to dose. Regular visits with seizure diaries were obtained for 3 months at presurgical baseline and postoperatively for every three months until 18m, then at 24m. Patients were counted as ?seizure-free? if no seizures (excluding auras) occurred between visits 18m-24m. Any subject that was not available for analysis was considered not seizure-free. Results: Of 40 planned enrollments, 30 qualified resulting in 13 subjects in the high dose and 17 in the low dose group. 1 patient was lost to follow-up soon after treatment. 1 subject in the low-dose group underwent standard lobectomy after not being seizure-free 24 months following treatment. 1 subject experienced papilledema that responded partially to dexamethasone and underwent temporal lobectomy. Reductions in seizure frequency were seen in the high-dose group at 3, 6, 15, 18, and 24 months and for the low-dose group at 12, 15, 18, and 24 months (Wilcoxon signed rank test). Thus, both groups showed significant reductions in seizures at approximately one year following treatment. The low-dose group showed a seizure-free response at 24 months of ? 60% and the high-dose group response was ? 80% at 24 months. Although there is a difference in the seizure-free rates for the two treatment groups, the Fisher's Exact Test using a 2-sided p value indicates that the difference in percentage seizure-free for the two groups is not statistically significant (p = 0.1194), a conclusion limited by the low power to resolve differences between treatment groups. Rates of steroid treatment, new headaches, and visual field defects did not differ between dose or seizure-outcome groups. Conclusions: GKS may offer a safe and effective alternative to standard open surgery for unilateral MTLE. High-dose GKS may be more effective than low-dose without additional morbidity. Disadvantages of GKS include latency to seizure-freedom. Further work is required to determine which patients may benefit from GKS. (Supported by NIH R01 NS039280; Elekta AB (Stockholm, Sweden).) 1 Miao Liu, and 1 Nathan B. Fountain ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: The natural history of epilepsy, and particularly the rate of seizure freedom (SF), is generally unknown except in a few specific epilepsy syndromes. The rate of SF is generally regarded to be low if patients do not respond to the first two medications. However, our experience suggests that some patients with refractory epilepsy become SF. We hypothesized that the rate of SF is higher than expected and correlated with the seizure class and epilepsy syndrome. Methods: Standardized data were prospectively collected by epileptologists from established and new patients seen in the UVA Epilepsy Clinic from April 1998 to November 2004. Data were acquired directly from patients and medical records, refined and cleaned by standardized methods and updated at each clinic visit. Analysis was limited to patients with definite epilepsy > 5 years old. Frequency of each seizure (SZ) type was collected at each visit. Patients were categorized into 14 classes by the combination of SZ types they possessed and classified by ILAE syndromes. For each subject, monthly SZ frequency of each SZ type was plotted over time for the study duration. SF was defined as a total frequency of 0 for at least 6 mo. in patients who had at least 3 SZ frequency entries. Results: From 1638 subjects, 988 had 3 or more SZ frequency entries and were followed for a mean of 37 mo. SF developed in 25% (243), established SF was present throughout the time period in 23% (231), and 52% (514) continued to have seizures. Among those SF, mean duration of follow-up was 24.5 mo. and mean duration of SF was 20.9 mo. The majority (56%) of those SF had a moderately high baseline SZ frequency of 1?15/mo, while 21% had < 1/mo and 15% had a very high SZ frequency of >15/mo. Subjects with GTCs only were most likely to have a low SZ frequency (60%) and mixed types to have a very high frequency (67%). SF rate was highest for subjects with generalized SZs (113 of 355 subjects or 31%) and lowest for mixed SZs (6 of 28 subjects or 21%). SF rate was highest for idiopathic localization-related (53%) and idiopathic generalized (38%) and lowest for other generalized epilepsies (25%). Conclusions: An overall rate of seizure freedom of 48% with 25% becoming SF during the study period is higher than generally expected for established epilepsy. Patients with only generalized SZs, or idiopathic generalized and idiopathic localization-related epilepsies are more likely to become SF but some rate of SF develops in all SZ types and syndromes. It is likely that recall bias and other factors give clinicians the impression that only few patients with epilepsy are seizure free. This demonstrates that SF is a reasonable goal in the treatment of established epilepsy, depending on the SZ type and epilepsy syndrome. (Supported by University of Virginia.) 1 Susana E. Camposano, 1 David A. Lyczkowski, 1 Sonja K. Rakowski, and 1 Elizabeth A. Thiele ( 1 Herscot Center for TSC, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Epilepsy is the most common medical manifestation of TSC, with a high incidence of infantile spasms and partial epilepsy that often is refractory to medical treatment. We describe the incidence, prevalence, management, and control of seizures in a large population of patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex. Methods: We conducted a retrospective chart review of patients meeting clinical criteria for TSC who were seen through our TSC clinical program between January 1999 and November 2005. Results: 194 patients met criteria for TSC (mean age 16 years, range 7 months to 60 years), including 91 females. 172 (88.7%) had a history of seizures (mean age 14.8 years, SD 14.8). Twenty-two (11%) patients did not have a history of seizures (mean 24.1years, SD 13.7). The latter group was significantly older (Student's t test, p < 0.005). TSC diagnosis in patients with no seizure history diagnosis may be established later in life, and they might be underrepresented in our sample. Median age at seizure onset was 6 months (range, newborn to13 years average, mean 1.8 years). Sixty-nine patients (43% of those with seizures) had a history of infantile spasms. Of those who had DNA mutational analysis and seizures (n = 122), patients with IS had a higher proportion of TSC2 mutations compared to those without IS (41/56 with IS versus 28/66 without IS, ?2 p < 0.001) Seizure control Detailed information on 158 patients was available for seizure control analysis. At the time of the last visit, 55 (35%) had been seizure free for one year or longer. 33 (21%) of them, including 4 that underwent epilepsy surgery, were on medications, with an average of 3.28 (total, current and past, range 1to 11) antiepileptic drugs (AED). They had been seizure free for an average of 6.65 years, maximum 28 years. Twenty-three were on current mono-therapy. Twenty-two patients (14%), including 4 that had seizure surgery, were off medications and had been on an average number of 2.81 AEDs (range 1 to 6). Refractory epilepsy Seventy-three patients who had been treated with 3 or more treatments, including AEDs, vagal nerve stimulator (12), ketogenic diet (10), or low glycemic index treatment (2) without reaching seizure control for one year were classified as refractory. They did not differ in mutational frequencies from 26 non-refractory patients (?2= NS), who did achieve seizure control with one or two AEDs. Fifty-nine patients were excluded from this analysis, since they had not been treated with more than 2 AEDs or other treatments and had not achieved seizure control for one year. Epilepsy surgery was performed in 27 refractory patients; 10 of them eventually became seizure free. Nineteen refractory patients became seizure free after being treated with 3 or more AEDs. Conclusions: TSC comprises a wide epilepsy spectrum, with early onset of seizures, high IS incidence and high intractabilitity rates. Nonetheless 35% achieve complete seizure control. 1 Kimford J. Meador, 2 Nancy Browning, 3 Morris J. Cohen, 4 Laura Kalayjian, 5 Joyce Liporace, 6 Page B. Pennell, 7 Michael D. Privitera, 8 Andres Kanner, and 9 Debra T. Cantrell ( 1 Neurology, University of Florida, Gaineville, FL ; 2 EMMES Corporation, Rockville, MD ; 3 Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 4 Neurology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA ; 5 Neuroscience, Riddle Health Care, Media, PA ; 6 Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ; 7 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; 8 Neurology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL ; and 9 North Texas Epilepsy Center, Irving, TX ) Rationale: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can produce behavioral teratogenesis in animals at dosages less than required to produce anatomical teratogenesis. We sought to evaluate the cognitive effects of in utero AED exposure in humans in order to determine if differences exist across commonly prescribed AEDs. Methods: The NEAD Study is an ongoing prospective multicenter observational investigation, which enrolled pregnant women with epilepsy taking monotherapy carbamazepine (CBZ), lamotrigine(LTG), phenytoin (PHT), or valproate (VPA). The long-term goal of the study is to examine children from these pregnancies at 6 years old to determine if differential neuropsychological effects exist from in utero exposure across the four most commonly employed AEDs in pregnant women. This analysis is based on currently available results at 2 years old from the Mental Scale of the Bayley Scales of Infant Development for 166 children (CBZ = 43, LTG = 57, PHT = 38, VPA = 28). The childrens' Mental Developmental Index (MDI) scores were analyzed by Analysis of Covariance controlling for maternal IQs. Results: Children exposed in utero to valproate had lower MDI scores at 2 years of age compared to the other 3 AEDs (p = .028). Follow-up pairwise comparisons revealed a significant difference for VPA-LTG (p = .018) and a trend for VPA-CBZ (p = .056). Mean (SD) MDIs were: CBZ = 94 (15), LTG = 97 (17), PHT = 90 (19), VPA = 85 (19). The percentages of children with MDI < 70 for each AED were: CBZ = 12%, LTG = 11%, PHT = 13%, VPA = 25%. The adverse effect of VPA was related to anticonvulsant blood level (p = .0001). Conclusions: These findings in conjunction with prior studies imply that in utero valproate exposure is more likely than other commonly used AEDs to impair cognitive development. Thus, valproate poses a greater risk for the unborn child for behavioral as well as anatomical teratogenesis. Additional studies are needed to confirm the present findings and to delineate the risks for other AEDs. (Supported by NIH/NINDS #2RO1 NS38455.) 1 Wayne M. Alves, 1 Yuhua Li, 2 Virinder Nohria, on behalf of the 205 Study Investigators ( 1 Research  and 2 Clinical Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Retigabine is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) that enhances the potassium currents mediated by human KCNQ2/3 and KCNQ3/5 potassium channels and exhibits potent anticonvulsant activity in a broad spectrum of epilepsy animal models. The safety and efficacy of retigabine in refractory partial-onset seizures has been previously reported [1]. This report provides a descriptive analysis evaluating the efficacy of retigabine on complex partial seizures (CPS) in patients with refractory partial-onset epilepsy. Methods: 399 patients with partial-onset seizures (age range: 16?70 years, baseline seizure frequency: ≥4 seizures/month) participated in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial. Study design included an 8-week baseline phase and 16-week double-blind treatment period (8-week forced titration and 8-week maintenance). Patients received either placebo or retigabine 600, 900, or 1200 mg/day and up to 2 approved AEDs. The primary efficacy variable was percent change from baseline in monthly total partial-seizure frequency. The percent change in monthly seizure rate for seizure types was considered as a secondary endpoint. Of 396 patients included in the efficacy analysis, 344 (86.9%) had CPS. 103 (26%) patients had simple partial seizures without secondary generalization (SPS). Results: Retigabine produced a linear dose-dependent reduction in monthly total partial-seizure frequency of 23%, 29% (p = 0.043), and 35% (p 0.001) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 13% for placebo. Looking at the most common seizure subtype, monthly CPS frequency was also significantly reduced. Median monthly CPS rate was reduced by 29.8% (p = 0.062), 26.5% (p = 0.064), and 40.0% (p = 0.002) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 14.8% for placebo. Monthly median SPS rate was reduced by 23.2% (p = 0.66), 34% (p = 0.77), and 37.6% (p = 0.15) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 15.2% for placebo. Conclusions: While retigabine is effective in reducing monthly total partial-onset seizures at 900 and 1200 mg/day, it appears to be effective in reducing the rate of complex partial seizures in all doses tested. Similar numerical trends for SPS frequency were observed but sample sizes are too small to draw a conclusion. Retigabine is currently undergoing global phase 3 studies as adjunctive treatment for partial-onset seizures in adults with refractory epilepsy. Reference 1 Porter P, Alves W, Nohria V, et al. World Congress of Neurology, 2005 (Sydney, Australia). (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International.) 1 Peter Halasz, 2 Reeta Kalviainen, 3 Maria Mazurkiewicz-Beldzinska, 4 Felix Rosenow, 5 Pamela Doty, and 5 Timothy Sullivan ( 1 Neurology, National Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology, Budapest, Hungary ; 2 Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland ; 3 Neurology, Medical University of Gdansk, Gdansk, Poland ; 4 Neurology, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany ; and 5 Clinical Development, Schwarz Biosciences, Inc., Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Lacosamide (LCM, SPM 927; formerly harkoseride) is a new chemical entity being developed as an oral and intravenous formulation for the treatment of partial-onset epilepsy. In a completed randomized, controlled trial (SP667), lacosamide (400 and 600 mg/day) reduced seizure frequency in subjects with uncontrolled partial seizures. Lacosamide has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile with low potential for pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions. Methods: SP755 was an international, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that investigated the efficacy and safety of lacosamide in subjects with uncontrolled partial seizures taking 1 to 3 concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) with or without vagus nerve stimulation. Concomitant AEDs were held stable during an 8-week baseline. Subjects (n = 485) who reported at least 8 seizures with no more than a 21-day seizure-free period were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to placebo, lacosamide 200 or 400 mg/day (given bid), respectively. Subjects were titrated over 4 weeks to the randomized dose in 100 mg/week increments. Treatment was maintained for 12 weeks, followed by blinded transition to an open-label extension trial or discontinuation. Efficacy was evaluated with continuous and categorical intent-to-treat analyses of seizure frequency (maintenance vs baseline). Safety was evaluated with adverse event (AE), ECG, vital sign, and clinical laboratory data. Results: The median percent reduction in seizure frequency was 21%, 35%, and 36% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. The lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day treatment groups were statistically significant over placebo in reducing seizure frequency from Baseline to the Maintenance Phase (p = 0.0223 and 0.0325, respectively). The 50% responder rates were 26%, 35%, and 41% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. Statistical analysis for responder rate over placebo was significant for lacosamide 400 mg/day (p = 0.0063) and approached significance for the 200 mg/day group (p = 0.0735). Rates for patient discontinuations from the trial for AEs were 6%, 6%, and 16% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. The most common (≥10% in any lacosamide group) AEs were dizziness, headache and diplopia. Conclusions: Data from this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial showed that adjunctive lacosamide (200 and 400 mg/day) produced a statistically significant reduction in partial seizures in patients with uncontrolled partial seizures and support further development of lacosamide as an antiepileptic drug. (Supported by Schwarz Biosciences, Inc.) 1 Luiz Eduardo Betting, 1 Susana Barreto Mory, 2 ?scia Lopes-Cendes, 1 Li M. Li, and 1 Fernando Cendes ( 1 Department of Neurology, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Medical Genetics, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Idiopathic generalized epilepsies (IGE) are a group of epilepsies with generalized onset of the seizures. According to the main seizure type IGE are divided in subsyndromes. Routine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is normal. The EEG supports the diagnosis when it shows the typical generalized spike and wave (GSW) discharges with normal background. Despite of these features, sometimes focal epileptiform discharges may be registered in the EEG. Some authors believe that these focalities represent fragmented GSW discharges but the pathophysiology of the focalities is still under investigation. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) is a quantitative technique of MRI analysis that allows automatic comparison between images. This method also increases the sensibility to detect small areas of structural abnormalities. The objective of this study was to investigate the focalities present on the EEG records of patients with IGE using VBM. Methods: Patients were classified according to clinical and EEG features following previous recommendations. All patients had at least one EEG with typical GSW discharges and one with clear focal epileptiform discharges. All patients were submitted to MRI evaluation in a 2T MRI scanner (Elscint, Haifa, Israel). A 3D T1 gradient echo sequence with 1 mm isotropic voxels was used for VBM analysis. Images were previously processed using the software SPM2 (http://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk). All images were submitted to spatial normalization, automatic segmentation, modulation and smoothing. The images of each patient were individually compared with a group of 47 controls (23 women, mean age 32 ± 14, range 19?67). Statistical analysis was performed searching for areas of gray matter concentration (GMC) abnormalities. The statistical level selected was a corrected p < 0.05 (false discovery rate). The localization of the focal discharges on the EEG was compared to the VBM results. Results: Twenty-two patients with IGE diagnosis were evaluated. Nine had juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), 6 patients had absence epilepsy (AE) and 7 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures on awakening (GTCS). Eight of the 9 (89%) patients with JME presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 6 of 8 patients (75%). Five of 6 (83%) patients with AE presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 3 of 5 patients (60%). Five of 7 (71%) patients with GTCS presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 2 of 5 patients (40%). Conclusions: This study supports that subtle structural abnormalities characterized mainly by increased GMC may be responsible for the focal epileptiform discharges observed in the EEG of IGE. These focalities are also probably involved in the pathophysiology of the IGE. (Supported by Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo (FAPESP) and Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES).) 1 Greg A. Worrell, 1 Matt Stead, 2 Rick Marsh, 2 Fred Meyer, 1 Greg Cascino, 1 Elson So, and 3 Brian Litt ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; 2 Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 3 Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: The range of physiologic and pathologic oscillations recorded from human brain extend well beyond what is commonly recorded with clinical acquisition systems. The range of local field activity in human epileptogenic brain extends from DC to ?700 Hz. The clinical relevance of DC fluctuations, infraslow oscillations (0.01?0.1 Hz) and ultrafast oscillations (100?700 Hz) is unclear, but recent research supports the possible role of pathological high-frequency oscillations in the genesis of focal onset seizures. Methods: We studied 10 consecutive patients undergoing presurgical evaluation with hybrid subdural and depth electrodes. The custom hybrid depth and subdural electrodes (Adtech) used for intracranial EEG recordings contain an array of microwire electrodes (40 um?60 um) and clinical macroelectrodes (1?4 mm). The EEG was acquired using a DC coupled broadband amplifier operating in parallel with the clinical EEG acquisition system. Results: The broadband recordings from all 10 patients (5 neocortical grids and 5 temporal depth electrodes) showed oscillations extending from DC to ?700Hz. Infraslow oscillations and DC fluctuations tended to be more spatially distributed, but were most prominent in the region of seizure onset. Ultrafast oscillations (>100 Hz) were most often localized, and were most prominent within the seizure onset zone. The ultrafast oscillations were most evident on the microwire electrodes, and were modulated by slow frequency oscillations. Conclusions: Human epileptogenic brain generates local field oscillations that extend over a wide dynamic range (DC-700 Hz). In addition to activity in the usual clinical bands (?0.5?100 Hz) there are DC fluctuations and shifts, infraslow frequency oscillations (?0.01?0.1 Hz), and ultrafast oscillations (>100?700 Hz) present. The presence of ultrafast oscillations are often highly localized and most evident on microwire recordings, but can be absent from large clinical macroelectrodes. This suggests that clinical macroelectrodes (2 mm) may partially average out ultrafast local field potentials. (Supported by NIH/NINDS K23NS47495?03.) 1 Wenbo Zhang, 2,5 Deanna L. Dickens, 2 Gail Risse, 1 Joel Landsteiner, 3 Mary Beth Dunn, 4 Mark V. Larkins, 3 Richard Gregory, 3 Keith Davies, 2,5 Michael D. Frost, 2,5 Patricia E. Penovich, 2 Robb Doss, 2 El-Hadi Mouderres, and 2,5 Frank J. Ritter ( 1 Magnetic Source Imaging, John Nasseff Neuroscience Institute, Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA and United Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; 2 Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA, St. Paul, MN ; 3 United Neurosurgery Associates, St. Paul, MN ; 4 Department of Neurosurgery, Regions Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; and 5 Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Magnetoencephalography (MEG)/magnetic source imaging (MSI) is the only neuroimaging method to real-time measure neuronal activity non-invasively. MSI clinical application is receiving more attention. Presurgical functional brain mapping with MSI allows guidance during surgical decision-making and decreases the invasiveness of presurgical evaluation in epilepsy, brain tumor or cerebral vascular diseases. This report describes the patients tested and confirmed by invasive brain monitoring intraoperatively or with subdural grid placement, in the MSI Lab of Minnesota Epilepsy Group, PA and United Hospital at Saint Paul, Minnesota. Methods: Twenty-nine patients experienced both functional brain mapping with MSI (148-channel Magnes 2500 WH System, 4-D Neuroimaging, San Diego, CA) and invasive brain mapping (11 patients with intra-operative mapping, 18 with subdural electrode placement) in Minnesota Epilepsy Group between Dec 2004 and June 2006. Standard MSI protocols were applied for localization of language (word recognition task for receptive language mapping), somatosensory (pneumatic piston as stimuli), and primary motor cortex (voluntary finger tapping). The magnetic sources are modeled as a single equivalent dipole. The dipoles were superimposed onto the 3-dimensional SPGR MR images (1.4 mm slice thickness, no gap). Results: In the 29 patients, there were 8 patients with language mapping, 26 with motor mapping and 16 with somatosensory mapping. In the 51 brain function components, somtosensory and motor MSI dipoles were overlapped with the locations of invasive cortical mapping or located within 1 cm range from the sites of invasive cortical mapping; language MSI dipoles were located in the sulcus overlapped by cortical mapping on surface. There were no non-predicted neurological deficits after resective surgery in 28 patients. One patient did not experience resection due to the overlapping of motor cortex and epileptogenic focus. Conclusions: Functional brain mapping with MSI is an accurate tool to localize brain function for surgical planning. Using MSI information properly may reduce the number of invasive brain mapping procedures. 1 Chad Carlson, 3 Catherine Schevon, 4 Jeff Stout, 1 Siddhartha Nadkarni, 2 Werner Doyle, 2 Howard Weiner, 1 Steven Pacia, 1,2 Orrin Devinsky, and 1 Ruben Kuzniecky ( 1 Neurology, New York University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurosurgery, New York University, New York, NY ; 3 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 4 New York MEG, New York, NY ) Rationale: The lateralization and localization of partial seizures, particularly in extratemporal epilepsy syndromes, remains difficult despite improved diagnostic imaging and electroencephalographic techniques. Magnetic source imaging (MSI) is increasingly employed in the presurgical evaluation. This study retrospectively examines the positive predictive value (PPV) of MSI for lateralizing the epileptogenic zone. Methods: All epilepsy surgical cases performed after the availability of MSI (4-D Neuroimaging, equivalent current source dipole localization) at our center were identified. 163 surgeries in 152 patients were performed. 73 patients had a diagnostic pre-operative MSI. Results were available to the epilepsy team prior to surgery; however the MSI results did not directly affect the resection. We compared MSI lateralization to the ICEEG lateralization and resection. These results were reviewed in the context of the surgical outcome for patients with more than six months of post-surgical follow-up. Results: 12 of the 73 patients did not have resections due to non-lateralizable or non-localizable seizures or because their implants were diagnostic bilateral strip surveys. 30 patients had resections limited to the temporal lobe (4 with focal tumors). 3 patients had frontal tumors. 10 patients had multi-focal lesions secondary to tuberous sclerosis complex. The MSI was normal in 9 patients. Of those with an abnormal MSI, 39 had unilateral abnormalities ipsilateral to the resection and 6 had abnormalities limited to the contralateral hemisphere. 19 patients had bilateral findings, with 10 demonstrating a clear predominance ipsilateral to the resection. 40/61 patients undergoing resections had six or more months of follow-up. The PPV for MSI lateralization is shown in the table below. Positive Predictive Value of MSI for Lateralization of Epileptic Foci Number of Patients PPV PPV + Bilateral All Patients 73 61% ?77% Engel I Outcome 25/40 77% ?91% Engel II Outcome ?5/40 75% 100% Engel III Outcome ?6/40 67% ?67% Engel IV Outcome ?4/40 75% ?75% Engel II-I VOutcomes 15/40 71% ?78% PPV = Positive Predictive Value. PPV + Bilateral = Positive Predictive Value including patients with bilateral localizations with a predominance to the side of resection. Conclusions: This retrospective analysis demonstrates both the validity of MSI for lateralizing the epileptogenic zone as well as the method's limitations; the specificity of the MSI technique for predicting the epileptogenic zone cannot exceed its ability to lateralize correctly. Thus, clinicians should interpret the MSI in the context of other presurgical studies, rather than rely on it as an independent predictor of the epileptogenic zone. (Supported by FACES.) 1 Gregory L. Barkley, 1 Brien Smith, 2 Gregory Bergey, 3 Gregory Worrell, 4 David Chabolla, 5 Joeseph Drazkowski, 6 Douglas Labar, 7 Robert Duckrow, 8 Anthony Murro, 9 Michael Smith, 10 Ryder Gwinn, 11 Bruce Fisch, 12 Lawrence Hirsch, and 13 Martha Morrell ( 1 Department of Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI ; 2 Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD ; 3 Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; 4 Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL ; 5 Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, AZ ; 6 Weill Medical College of Cornell University, NYC, NY ; 7 Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 8 Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 9 Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL ; 10 Swedish Neuroscience Inst., Seattle, WA ; 11 Lousiana State University, New Orleans, LA ; 12 Columbia University, NYC, NY ; and 13 NeuroPace, Inc., Mountain View, CA ,) Rationale: A multi-center feasibility investigation assessed safety and possible efficacy of the cranially based implantable, programmable Responsive Neurostimulator (RNS?) system. Methods: Subjects were 18?65 years with intractable partial-onset seizures and localized epileptogenic onset region(s). Subjects with ≥12 simple partial (SP) sensory or motor seizures, complex partial seizures (CPS) or generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures over an 84-day baseline period qualified for implant. The RNS was connected to up to 2 leads (subdural and/or depth), which were targeted to the seizure focus. Adverse events (AEs) were monitored throughout the trial. Efficacy was assessed during two time periods, the 84-day period beginning 28 days post-implant (primary) and the most recent 84 days for which a subject could have received therapy (secondary). Results: During the primary evaluation period, the responder rate (≥50% reduction in seizures) in 50 subjects (excluding 1 subject with no disabling seizures at baseline and 14 subjects blinded off) was 32% for CPS (n = 44), 63% for GTC (n = 16), and 26% (n = 50) for total disabling seizures (TDS) (SP motor, CPS and GTC). The median percentage reduction in seizure frequency was: CPS 27%, GTC 59% and TDS 29%; seizure reduction was significant for CPS (p < 0.05) and TDS (p < 0.001) (Wilcoxon signed-rank test). For the secondary evaluation period, as of 4/28/06, the responder rate for 62 subjects (excluding 1 subject with no disabling seizures at baseline and 2 subjects previously blinded off with fewer than 84-days of therapy on) was 40% for CPS (n = 52), 55% for GTC (n = 22), and 41% for TDS (n = 61). The median percentage reduction was: CPS 34%, GTC 66% and TDS 35%, and seizure reduction was significant for CPS (p < 0.05), GTC (p < 0.005), and TDS (p < 0.001). In 65 implanted subjects (including 17 device replacements) representing 65 patient years, there were no serious unanticipated device-related AEs, and responsive neurostimulation was well tolerated. Conclusions: An investigation of the RNS? system demonstrated safety and a sustained reduction in CPS, GTC and TDS events. Preliminary results indicated that the RNS? system may provide a safe and effective treatment for adults with intractable partial-onset epilepsy. (Supported by NeuroPace, Inc.) 1 Angela Y. Rackley, 1 Jerzy P. Szaflarski, 1 Daniel Woo, 1 Rosie Miller, 1 Jane Khoury, 1 Dawn O. Kleindorfer, 1 Joseph P. Broderick, 2 William Cahill, and 1 Brett M. Kissela ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Department of Veteran's Affairs, Fresno, CA ) Rationale: Stroke-related seizures are frequently defined as early (within 2 weeks after stroke) and late. The incidence of early and late seizures is relatively well established. The incidence of acute seizures (≤24 hours after stroke) is unknown. In this population-based study, we aimed to establish the incidence of acute post-stroke seizures in a biracial cohort. We also sought to determine if there were any differences between race, stroke subtype, and stroke localization. Methods: All stroke cases between 7/93?6/94 within the population of the Greater Cincinnati metropolitan region were identified by review of all primary and secondary stroke diagnoses (ICD-9 codes 430?436) from 19 local acute-care hospitals, outpatient clinics, autopsy cases, and death certificates. Clinical and demographic data was collected by study nurses and subsequently reviewed by study physicians. The presence of seizures in the 24 hours after stroke symptom onset was obtained through additional record review; patients with a prior history of seizure were excluded. All available neuroimaging performed at the time of stroke was reviewed by study physicians. Variable Seizure No Seizure p-value Age (years) 67.0 ± 20.3 71.6 ± 13.0 0.01? Gender (male) 53 (43.4%) 1241 (44.2%) 0.88? Race (black) 18 (14.8%) ?473 (16.8%) 0.55? Hypertension 70 (57.4%) 1744 (62.1%) 0.30? Heart Disease 48 (39.3%) 1149 (40.9%) 0.73? Prior Stroke 31 (25.4%) ?652 (23.2%) 0.57? LVH on admission EKG 16 (13.1%) ?349 (12.4%) 0.82? Initial GCS 12 (3, 14) ??15 (14, 15) <0.0001 Initial Rankin ?0 (0, 3) ???0 (0, 3) 0.54? 30-day Mortality 35 (28.7%) ?361 (12.8%) <0.0001 Hemorrhagic Stroke 39 (32.0%) ?295 (10.5%) <0.0001 Data analyzed using logistic regression model Results: We identified 2932 strokes who had no prior history of seizures, of which 122 (4.2%) had seizures within the first 24 hours of stroke onset. Of ICH/SAH patients, 11.4% had a seizure within the first 24 hours of stroke onset (p ≤ 0.0001 vs. all stroke). In ischemic stroke, we observed a trend towards seizures being more common with cardioembolic stroke vs. all other ischemic stroke subtypes (4.5% vs. 2.9%, p = 0.07). There was a higher mortality rate in patients who developed stroke-related acute seizures. See table for additional detail. Conclusions: The overall rate of epileptic seizures within the first 24 hours of stroke onset is 4.2%. Risk factors for developing seizure activity include younger age, lower initial GCS score, and hemorrhagic stroke (ICH/SAH). Patients with stroke-related acute seizures have a higher 30-day mortality than patients without seizures. This may be related to a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke in this group. 1,2,3 N. Elshorst, 2 F.G. Woermann, 2 T. May, 2 H. Freitag, 2 S. Horstmann, 2 R. Schulz, 3 M.P. McAndrews, and 2,3 B. Pohlmann-Eden ( 1 Universitaetsklinikum Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany ; 2 Mara Hospital, Bethel Epilepsy Centre Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 3 Krembil Neuroscience Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada ) Rationale: To identify the best predictors of postoperative verbal memory decline in patients undergoing left temporal lobe excisions for epilepsy. Methods: A retrospective analysis was carried out using data from 59 patients with left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) who underwent en-bloc resection. Memory was measured by a standard word list-learning task (z-score for total number of words over 5 trials) administered before and after surgery. A new rating was devised for the MR images, to characterize the extent of hippocampal damage. Atrophy and signal change of the hippocampus were examined separately. Both changes were assessed on a scale: 0 = no change 1 = moderate atrophy/signal change, 2 = severe atrophy/signal change. The average of these two factors was calculated to classify the degree (range 0 to 2) of mesiotemporal sclerosis (MTS). The Wada results included number of correctly identified items after ipsilateral injection and contralateral injection (pass/fail boundary: 67%), as well as an asymmetry score. In various multiple regression analyses, Wada test scores (injection ipsilateral, injection contralateral, asymmetry score), neuropsychological test scores before surgery, MRI scores (atrophy, increased signal change, MTS) and further risk factors such as age of onset were entered as the independent variables. The difference in the verbal memory test was the dependent variable. Results: After surgery, 35% of the patients showed a memory decline indicated by a z-score loss of more than one point. The regression analyses revealed that the pre-operative memory test score was the strongest predictor of memory change (p < 0.05, adjusted R Square = 0.341). Higher preoperative performance in the verbal memory task was associated with a greater risk of verbal memory decline after surgery. The second significant predictor was the MTS classification (p < 0.05, adjusted R Square = 0.428). Greater damage to the hippocampus was associated with less decline following surgery. None of the other variables, including the Wada results and other risk factors, were significant predictors of memory outcome. Conclusions: The Wada test results did add to the prediction of verbal memory decline in this sample of patients in whom temporal lobe resection was considered safe with regard to the risk of amnesia (i.e., adequate memory functioning following ipsilesional injection compared to contralesional injection). Thus, the clinical data obtained routinely before surgery seems to be sufficient to predict risk of memory decline in the majority of TLE patients. However, our findings do not refute the usefulness of the Wada test for excluding from surgery those patients who are at risk for amnesia after temporal lobe resection. 1 Cigdem I. Akman, 1 Aviva Olgavsky, 1 Marla Hamberger, 1 Ronald Tikofsky, and 1 Frank Gilliam ( 1 Department of Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University, College of Physicians  2 Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ; and 3 Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: We investigated longitudinal changes in the volumes and shapes of the hippocampi of non-surgical and post-surgical patients with unilateral mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: Sixteen non-surgical patients had a repeat brain MRI with a mean interval of 3.7 years and 16 post-surgical patients had two postoperative MRI scans with a mean interval of 4.8 years. We measured ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal volumes (IHV and CHV) in the non-surgical group and CHV in the postsurgical group. Hippocampal shape deformity analysis (HSDA) was also performed in each group. Results: In non-surgical patients, both IHV and CHV decreased significantly between the two scans (7.3 ± 5.7%, p < 0.001 and 2.5 ± 2.6%, p = 0.002). Moreover, IHV percent decreases were significantly correlated with the number of total seizures between the two scans (r = 0.57, p = 0.02). HSDA also showed inward deformities in both ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi in non-surgical patients (uncorrected p < 0.05). In post-surgical patients, mean CHV (2481.1 ± 364.9 mm3) for first postsurgical scans was not significantly different from mean CHV (2480.4 ± 316.1 mm3) for second scans. Total seizure numbers during the year before surgery were negatively correlated with CHV losses between the two postsurgical scans (r =?0.72, p = 0.002). HSDA of contralateral hippocampi between the two postsurgical scans mainly showed outward deformities in head, body and tail but small inward deformities in tail. Conclusions: These results suggest that recurrent seizures induce progressive atrophy in both ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi, but that a seizure-free state after the resection of an epileptic focus prevents longitudinal volume loss of the contralateral hippocampus and may facilitate a partial volume increase.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - BOOK REVIEWS
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 35
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.1994.tb03810.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.1994.tb03810.x
SP  - 536
EP  - 541
PY  - 1994
AB  - Book reviewed in this article: Reproductive biology in small animals: Fertility and Infertility in Dogs, Cats and other Carnivores. Edited by P. W. Concannon, G. C. W. England, J. P. Verstegen and H. A. Russell. Practical guide to small animal nutrition: Clinical Nutrition of the Dog and Cat. By J. W. Simpson, R. S. Anderson and P. J. Markwell. Detailed feline anatomy: Atlas of Feline Anatomy for Veterinarians. By L. C. Hudson and W. P. Hamilton. First aid for dog owners: First Aid and Healthcare for Dogs. By C. T. P. Bell. An overview of the feline patient: Handbook of Feline Medicine. By J. Wills and A. Wolf. Quick guide to emergency procedures: Emergency Procedures for the Small Animal Veterinarian. By S. J. Plunkett. Comprehensive radiology: Textbook of Veterinary Diagnostic Radiology 2nd edn. Edited by E. Thrall. Understanding the grieving process: The Human-Animal Bond and Grief. By L. Lagoni, C. Butler and S. Hetts.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Türktekin, F
AU  - Buduneli, N
AU  - Lappin, DF
AU  - Türk, T
AU  - Buduneli, E
TI  - Diamond burs versus curettes in root planing: a randomized clinical trial
JO  - Australian Dental Journal
JA  - Aust Dent J
VL  - 63
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/adj.12602
DO  - doi:10.1111/adj.12602
SP  - 242
EP  - 252
KW  - Chronic periodontitis
KW  - dental plaque
KW  - non-surgical periodontal debridement
KW  - root planing/instrumentation
KW  - much more strongly than does KatGII
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Background This study compares diamond burs and curettes by clinical, microbiological, biochemical and scanning electron microscopic parameters and treatment time data in the non-surgical periodontal treatment of patients with chronic periodontitis. Methods Two quadrants of each of the 12 patients received root planing with diamond burs, whereas the other two quadrants were treated with curettes. Clinical periodontal measurements were recorded at baseline and then 1, 3 and 6 months after completion of non-surgical periodontal treatment. Subgingival plaque and gingival crevicular fluid samples were obtained at baseline and 1-month control. Twenty-one hopeless teeth received root planing with diamond burs or curettes or no treatment and then extracted for microscopic evaluations. Results Clinical periodontal parameters improved similarly with both treatment modalities. Microbiological analyses revealed similar findings for the bacterial load (16S gene copy numbers) and ratio of each bacterium to the total bacterial count at baseline and 1-month control. Cytokine levels in the gingival crevicular fluid samples exhibited differences between the two treatments. Scanning electron microscopic analyses indicated that diamond burs were better in terms of calculus removal and loss of tooth substance indices but roughness index values were better for curettes. Conclusions Diamond burs provide findings comparable with curettes in root planing.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Staffieri, Francesco
AU  - De Monte, Valentina
AU  - De Marzo, Carmelinda
AU  - Grasso, Salvatore
AU  - Crovace, Antonio
TI  - Effects of two fractions of inspired oxygen on lung aeration and gas exchange in cats under inhalant anaesthesia
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 37
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2010.00567.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2010.00567.x
SP  - 483
EP  - 490
KW  - cats
KW  - computed tomography
KW  - gas exchange
KW  - general anaesthesia
KW  - pulmonary atelectasis
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Objective? To compare the effects of two fractions of inspired oxygen (FiO2) (0.4 and 1) on lung aeration and gas exchange during general anaesthesia in cats. Study design? Randomized, blinded, controlled study. Animals? Thirty healthy, mixed breed, client owned female cats. Materials and methods? Cats were premedicated intramuscularly with acepromazine (0.03?mg?kg?1) and medetomidine (0.015?mg?kg?1). Anaesthesia was induced with propofol (5?mg?kg?1) and, after orotracheal intubation, maintained with isoflurane carried by either 100% oxygen (G100, n?=?15) or an oxygen-air mixture with 40% oxygen (G40, n?=?15). All cats were placed in dorsal recumbency and breathed spontaneously throughout the entire procedure. Following surgery (ovariectomy), a spiral computed tomography (CT) of the thorax was performed, arterial oxygen (PaO2) and carbon dioxide (PaCO2) tensions were measured and alveolar?arterial gradient of oxygen [P(A?a)O2] calculated. The CT images were analysed for lung aeration by the analysis of radiograph attenuations (Hounsfield units, HU), according to the following classification: hyperinflated area (?1000 to ?900 HU), normally aerated area (?900 to ?500?HU), poorly aerated area (?500 to ?100?HU) and non-aerated area (?100 to +100?HU). The groups were compared using one-way anova. Results? Compared to G100, the normally-aerated lung area was significantly greater and the poorly-aerated and non-aerated areas were significantly smaller in G40. PaCO2 was similar in both groups. PaO2 and P(A?a)O2 were significantly higher in G100. In both groups, pulmonary atelectasis developed preferentially in the caudal lung fields. Conclusion? In cats anaesthetised with isoflurane, the administration of an FiO2 of >0.9 significantly impaired lung aeration and gas exchange as compared to an FiO2 of 0.4. Clinical relevance? An FiO2 of 0.4 may better preserve lung aeration and gas exchange in anaesthetised spontaneously breathing cats but monitoring is essential to ensure oxygenation is adequate.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - MADIGAN, J. E.
AU  - ZINKL, J. G.
AU  - FRIDMANN, D. M.
AU  - BARBIS, D.
AU  - ANDRESEN, J. W.
TI  - Preliminary studies of recombinant bovine granulocyte-colony stimulating factor on haematological values in normal neonatal foals
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 26
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1994.tb04359.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1994.tb04359.x
SP  - 159
EP  - 161
KW  - horse
KW  - neonate
KW  - neutrophil
KW  - haematology
KW  - granulocyte-colony stimulating factor
PY  - 1994
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Saunders, Jimmy H.
TI  - Computed tomography - spiralling towards diagnosis
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 50
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00796.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00796.x
SP  - 321
EP  - 322
PY  - 2009
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Prabhakaran, Dorairaj
AU  - Jeemon, Panniyammakal
TI  - Should Your Family History of Coronary Heart Disease Scare You?
JO  - Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine: A Journal of Translational and Personalized Medicine
JA  - Mt Sinai J Med
VL  - 79
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/msj.21348
DO  - doi:10.1002/msj.21348
SP  - 721
EP  - 732
KW  - coronary heart disease
KW  - family history
KW  - risk factors
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Traditional risk factors explain most of the risk associated with coronary heart disease, and after adjustment for risk factors family history was believed to contribute very little to population-attributable risk of coronary heart disease. However, the INTERHEART study demonstrated an independent association of family history of coronary heart disease with acute myocardial infarction. To assess this relationship more comprehensively in multiple datasets in different populations, we carried out a detailed review of the available evidence. Case-control studies involving 17,202 cases and 30,088 controls yielded a pooled unadjusted odds ratio (random-effects model, overall I2 = 64.6%, P = 0.000) of 2.03 (95% confidence interval: 1.79?2.30), whereas cohort studies that included 313,837 individuals yielded an unadjusted relative risk for future coronary heart disease (random-effects model, overall I2 = 88.7%, P = 0.000) of 1.60 (95% confidence interval: 1.44?1.77). Although the presence of family history of coronary heart disease indicates a cumulative exposure of shared genes and environment, the risk estimates for family history did not attenuate significantly after adjustment for conventional coronary heart disease risk factors in several studies. It is probably an oversimplification to dichotomize the family history variable into a simple ?yes? or ?no? risk factor, as the significance of family history is influenced by several variables, such as age, sex, number of relatives, and age at onset of disease in the relatives. Moreover, a quantitative risk-assessment model for the family history variable, such as the ?family risk score,? has a positive linear relationship with coronary heart disease. More studies are warranted to assess the benefits and risks of intensive interventions, both targeted individually and at the family level, among individuals with a valid family history and borderline elevated risk factors. Mt Sinai J Med 79:721?732, 2012. ? 2012 Mount Sinai School of Medicine
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nicholson, I.
AU  - Halfacree, Z.
AU  - Whatmough, C.
AU  - Mantis, P.
AU  - Baines, S.
TI  - Computed tomography as an aid to management of chronic oropharyngeal stick injury in the dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 49
IS  - 9
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2008.00591.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2008.00591.x
SP  - 451
EP  - 457
PY  - 2008
AB  - Objective: To describe the use of computed tomography scanning in the management of dogs with chronic signs after oropharyngeal stick injury. Methods: Dogs with a final diagnosis of chronic oropharyngeal stick injury that underwent a computed tomography scan during their investigation were selected retrospectively from case files at the Royal Veterinary College, London. Results: The six dogs were young (median age 3·1 years) and medium to large breed (19·0 to 42·0 kg). By the time of referral the most common clinical sign was cervical swelling (five dogs). Stick foreign bodies were apparent on the plain computed tomography images in all cases and appeared as well-demarcated, linear abnormalities. A ventral mid-line approach was used for foreign body retrieval, and the computed tomography findings corresponded well with the surgical findings, with stick foreign body length ranging from 1 to 7 cm. Closed suction drainage was used in five dogs, for two to four days. Clinical signs fully resolved postoperatively in all cases, although cervical swelling recurred three weeks after surgery in one case. This dog had the smallest foreign body, the greatest number of surgical interventions before referral (three) and the longest disease course before referral (eight months). Clinical Significance: Computed tomography scanning is accurate in identifying the presence and location of chronic stick foreign bodies. Recurrence of disease is possible despite successful retrieval of the wood fragments found by computed tomography scan.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ziegler, A. L.
AU  - Freeman, C. K.
AU  - Fogle, C. A.
AU  - Burke, M. J.
AU  - Davis, J. L.
AU  - Cook, V. L.
AU  - Southwood, L. L.
AU  - Blikslager, A. T.
TI  - Multicentre, blinded, randomised clinical trial comparing the use of flunixin meglumine with firocoxib in horses with small intestinal strangulating obstruction
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 51
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.13013
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.13013
SP  - 329
EP  - 335
KW  - horse
KW  - colic
KW  - endotoxaemia
KW  - flunixin meglumine
KW  - firocoxib
KW  - clinical study
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary Background Small intestinal strangulating obstruction (SISO) is associated with endotoxaemia which leads to an increased risk of death. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used to treat signs of endotoxaemia by inhibiting cyclo-oxygenases (COX). COX-1 is expressed constitutively and promotes gut barrier function, whereas COX-2 is inducible and contributes to the signs of endotoxaemia. In preclinical SISO trials, intestinal barrier recovery was more complete with reductions in endotoxin permeability in horses treated with COX-2 selective NSAIDs as compared with horses treated with flunixin meglumine. Objectives We hypothesised that treatment of post-surgical SISO horses with firocoxib (COX-2 selective) would reduce the signs of endotoxaemia to a greater extent than flunixin meglumine (nonselective COX inhibitor) while continuing to provide similar levels of pain control. Study design Blinded randomised clinical trial. Methods In addition to clinical monitoring, preoperative and 12-, 24- and 48-h post-operative plasma samples were assessed for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), thromboxane B2 (TXB2), TNF? and soluble CD14 (sCD14). Results In 56 recruited SISO horses, either flunixin meglumine (1.1 mg/kg, i.v., q12h) or firocoxib (0.3 mg/kg, i.v. loading dose; 0.1 mg/kg, i.v., q24h) was given in the post-operative period in three university hospitals from 2015 to 2017. COX-2 selectivity was confirmed by a relative lack of inhibition of the COX-1 prostanoid TXB2 by firocoxib and significant inhibition by flunixin meglumine (P = 0.014). Both drugs inhibited the COX-2 prostanoid PGE2. There were no significant differences in pain scores between groups (P = 0.2). However, there was a 3.23-fold increased risk (P = 0.04) of increased plasma sCD14 in horses treated with flunixin meglumine, a validated biomarker of equine endotoxaemia. Main limitations Horses were all treated with flunixin meglumine prior to referral. In addition, many horses were treated with lidocaine, which has been shown to mitigate the deleterious effects of flunixin meglumine. Conclusions In SISO cases, firocoxib reduced a biomarker of endotoxaemia as compared with flunixin meglumine while continuing to provide similar levels of pain control.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Beltran, E.
AU  - Shelton, G. D.
AU  - Guo, L. T.
AU  - Dennis, R.
AU  - Sanchez-Masian, D.
AU  - Robinson, D.
AU  - De Risio, L.
TI  - Dystrophin-deficient muscular dystrophy in a Norfolk terrier
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 56
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12292
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12292
SP  - 351
EP  - 354
PY  - 2015
AB  - A six-month-old male entire Norfolk terrier was presented with a 3-month history of poor development, reluctance to exercise and progressive and diffuse muscle atrophy. Serum creatine kinase concentration was markedly elevated. Magnetic resonance imaging of the epaxial muscles revealed asymmetrical streaky signal changes aligned within the muscle fibres (hyperintense on T2-weighted images and short-tau inversion recovery with moderate contrast enhancement on T1-weighted images). Electromyography revealed pseudomyotonic discharges and fibrillation potentials localised at the level of the supraspinatus, epaxial muscles and tibial cranialis muscles. Muscle biopsy results were consistent with dystrophin-deficient muscular dystrophy. The dog remained stable 7 months after diagnosis with coenzyme Q10 and l-carnitine; however after that time, there was a marked deterioration and the owners elected euthanasia. This case report describes the clinical presentation, magnetic resonance imaging, electrodiagnostic and histopathological findings with immunohistochemical analysis in a Norfolk terrier with confirmed dystrophin-deficient muscular dystrophy, which has not been previously described in this breed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ben-Amotz, R.
AU  - Ellison, G. W.
AU  - Thompson, M. S.
AU  - Sheppard, B. J.
AU  - Estrada, A. H.
AU  - Levy, J. K.
TI  - Pericardial lipoma in a geriatric dog with an incidentally discovered thoracic mass
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 48
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2007.00341.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2007.00341.x
SP  - 596
EP  - 599
PY  - 2007
AB  - An intrathoracic mass was discovered as an incidental finding in a 14-year-old, spayed, female Rottweiler cross during evaluation of urinary incontinence. Computed tomography suggested a pericardial or pleural location and high adipose content of the mass. The mass was removed via lateral thoracotomy with partial pericardectomy and was diagnosed as a pericardial lipoma. The dog recovered well, and there was no evidence of recurrence approximately one year later. Adipose tumours of the heart and its associated structures are rare in dogs and have been associated with both successful and fatal outcomes.
ER  - 
