
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yamakawa, Michael
AU  - Doh, Susan J.
AU  - Santosa, Samuel M.
AU  - Montana, Mario
AU  - Qin, Ellen C.
AU  - Kong, Hyunjoon
AU  - Han, Kyu-Yeon
AU  - Yu, Charles
AU  - Rosenblatt, Mark I.
AU  - Kazlauskas, Andrius
AU  - Chang, Jin-Hong
AU  - Azar, Dimitri T.
TI  - Potential lymphangiogenesis therapies: Learning from current antiangiogenesis therapies—A review
JO  - Medicinal Research Reviews
JA  - Med Res Rev
VL  - 38
IS  - 6
SN  - 0198-6325
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/med.21496
DO  - doi:10.1002/med.21496
SP  - 1769
EP  - 1798
KW  - angiogenesis
KW  - lymphangiogenesis
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract In recent years, lymphangiogenesis, the process of lymphatic vessel formation from existing lymph vessels, has been demonstrated to have a significant role in diverse pathologies, including cancer metastasis, organ graft rejection, and lymphedema. Our understanding of the mechanisms of lymphangiogenesis has advanced on the heels of studies demonstrating vascular endothelial growth factor C as a central pro-lymphangiogenic regulator and others identifying multiple lymphatic endothelial biomarkers. Despite these breakthroughs and a growing appreciation of the signaling events that govern the lymphangiogenic process, there are no FDA-approved drugs that target lymphangiogenesis. In this review, we reflect on the lessons available from the development of antiangiogenic therapies (26 FDA-approved drugs to date), review current lymphangiogenesis research including nanotechnology in therapeutic drug delivery and imaging, and discuss molecules in the lymphangiogenic pathway that are promising therapeutic targets.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - KOL, A.
AU  - WALKER, N. J.
AU  - GALUPPO, L. D.
AU  - CLARK, K. C.
AU  - BUERCHLER, S.
AU  - BERNANKE, A.
AU  - BORJESSON, D. L.
TI  - Autologous point-of-care cellular therapies variably induce equine mesenchymal stem cell migration, proliferation and cytokine expression
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 45
IS  - 2
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.2012.00600.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.2012.00600.x
SP  - 193
EP  - 198
KW  - horse
KW  - bone marrow mononuclear cells
KW  - chemotaxis
KW  - cord blood mononuclear cells
KW  - cytokines
KW  - mesenchymal stem cells
KW  - platelet lysate
KW  - stromal vascular fraction
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study: Autologous cellular therapy products including adipose-derived stromal vascular fraction (SVF), bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMNs), cord blood mononuclear cells (CBMNs) and platelet rich plasma are options for treatment of acute orthopaedic lesions while mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are culture expanded. These products may contribute to healing by secreting matrix proteins or growth factors, but they may also act on endogenous MSCs to facilitate healing. Objectives: To determine the effects of cell therapy products on MSCs function in vitro. The hypothesis was that cell therapy products promote MSCs functions including proliferation, migration and mediator release. Methods: Fat, bone marrow (BM), cord blood and platelets were obtained from 6 Quarter Horses. The BM-MSCs and their autologous cell therapy products were co-incubated in transwells. Mesenchymal stem cells proliferation, migration, gene expression and cytokine concentrations were determined. Results: All cell therapy products increased MSCs proliferation, but SVF induced significantly more proliferation than any other product. Also SVF elicited more MSCs chemotaxis and, along with BMMNs, significantly more MSCs chemoinvasion. Cord blood mononuclear cells stimulated MSCs to produce high concentrations of interleukin-6 (IL-6), transforming growth factor-?1 (TGF-?1), and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Stromal vascular fraction and platelet lysate did not stimulate MSCs but SVF and platelet lysate themselves contained high concentrations of PGE2 and IL-6 (SVF) and TGF-?1 (platelet lysate). Conclusions: Autologous cell products variably stimulate MSCs functions with 2 primary patterns apparent. Products either contained preformed mediators that may have intrinsic healing function, or products stimulated MSCs to secrete mediators. Potential relevance: The specific clinical indications for these products may differ to include administration as a sole treatment modality prior to MSCs injection for intrinsic cell and cytokine activity (i.e. SVF) or administration concurrently with MSCs to activate MSCs for treatment of chronic lesions (i.e. CBMNs).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Calciolari, E.
AU  - Hamlet, S.
AU  - Ivanovski, S.
AU  - Donos, N.
TI  - Pro-osteogenic properties of hydrophilic and hydrophobic titanium surfaces: Crosstalk between signalling pathways in in vivo models
JO  - Journal of Periodontal Research
JA  - J Periodont Res
VL  - 53
IS  - 4
SN  - 0022-3484
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jre.12550
DO  - doi:10.1111/jre.12550
SP  - 598
EP  - 609
KW  - bioinformatics
KW  - dental implant
KW  - genetics
KW  - proteomics
PY  - 2018
AB  - Background It is now generally accepted that the response to a particular signal, such as the surgical trauma following implant placement, is not the result of a single linear signalling pathway, but rather reflects pathway integration, which can occur at multiple levels. Although it is well documented that both SLA and SLActive surfaces are able to promote bone formation and osseointegration, it is still unclear which are the key signalling pathways involved and how surface hydrophilicity/hydrophobicity might affect pathway integration. Objective To combine gene and protein data from in vivo studies applying titanium hydrophobic (Sandblasting, Large-grit, Acid-etching, SLA) and hydrophilic (SLActive) surfaces to understand the molecular mechanisms responsible for the pro-osteogenic properties of these surfaces. Methods The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG?) pathway database and the Ingenuity? Pathway Analysis (IPA?) software were applied to the genomic and proteomic data of previous in vivo studies applying SLA and SLActive surfaces, with the specific aim to focus on bone formation-related signalling pathways. While gene data were derived from a human study on osseointegration, protein data originated from a preclinical study in rabbits. Data were available for the 4, 7 and 14 days of healing periods. Results Both genomic and proteomic data showed that the osteogenesis process takes place mainly at 7 and 14 days of healing on both SLA and SLActive surfaces. Surface hydrophilicity enhances bone formation at multiple levels, by directly promoting an earlier expression of pathways involved in cell proliferation and osteoblast precursor differentiation (eg, mitogen-activated protein kinase, phosphoinositide-3 kinase-AKT, Wnt, Notch, transforming growth factor-?), but also by positively regulating angiogenesis, bone mineralization and bone remodelling. Conclusion This study combined, for the first time, different ?omics? outputs to get new insights on the molecular mechanisms behind the influence of surface hydrophilicity on osseointegration/bone formation. Specific signalling pathways, such as Wnt, vascular endothelial growth factor and mitogen-activated protein kinase, were identified as differentially modulated by titanium surface hydrophilicity both at a genomic and proteomic level. These findings may be used in the future to monitor/predict the bone formation/osseointegration process, or as a screening tool towards the manufacture of new pro-osteogenic implant surfaces. In order to take into account the full complexity and interplay of cell signalling during bone formation, powerful bioinformatics tools integrating different ?omics? data and predicting signalling pathways trends should be applied by future studies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chahud, Fernando
AU  - Ramalho, Leandra N. Z.
AU  - Ramalho, Fernando S.
AU  - Haddad, Antonio
AU  - Roque-Barreira, Maria C.
TI  - The lectin KM+ induces corneal epithelial wound healing in rabbits
JO  - International Journal of Experimental Pathology
VL  - 90
IS  - 2
SN  - 0959-9673
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00626.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00626.x
SP  - 166
EP  - 173
KW  - Artocarpus integrifolia
KW  - corneal wound healing
KW  - KM+ lectin
KW  - neutrophils
PY  - 2009
AB  - Summary Neutrophil influx is essential for corneal regeneration (Gan et al. 1999). KM+, a lectin from Artocarpus integrifolia, induces neutrophil migration (Santos-de-Oliveira et al. 1994). This study aims at investigating a possible effect of KM+ on corneal regeneration in rabbits. A 6.0-mm diameter area of debridement was created on the cornea of both eyes by mechanical scraping. The experimental eyes received drops of KM+ (2.5??g/ml) every 2?h. The control eyes received buffer. The epithelial wounded areas of the lectin-treated and untreated eyes were stained with fluorescein, photographed and measured. The animals were killed 12?h (group 1, n?=?5), 24?h (group 2, n?=?10) and 48?h (group 3, n?=?5) after the scraping. The corneas were analysed histologically (haematoxylin and eosin and immunostaining for proliferation cell nuclear antigen, p63, vascular endothelial growth factor, c-Met and laminin). No significant differences were found at the epithelial gap between treated and control eyes in the group 1. However, the number of neutrophils in the wounded area was significantly higher in treated eyes in this group. Three control and seven treated eyes were healed completely and only rare neutrophils persisted in the corneal stroma in group 2. No morphological distinction was observed between treated and control eyes in group 3. In treated corneas of group 2, there was an increase in immunostaining of factors involved in corneal healing compared to controls. Thus, topical application of KM+ may facilitate corneal epithelial wound healing in rabbits by means of a mechanism that involves increased influx of neutrophils into the wounded area induced by the lectin.
ER  - 

AU  - Mattson, Mark P.
C7  - pp. 37-45
TI  - Excitotoxicity
SN  - 9780470672686
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118661895.ch4
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118661895.ch4
SP  - 37-45
KW  - Alzheimer's disease
KW  - amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
KW  - excitotoxicity
KW  - focal ischemic stroke
KW  - global cerebral ischemia
KW  - glutamate receptor activation
KW  - Huntington's disease
KW  - neurodegenerative disorders
KW  - Parkinson disease
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Numerous studies of animal models have demonstrated the importance of glutamate receptor activation/excitotoxicity in the death of neurons in severe epileptic seizures, as well as the death of many neurons in focal ischemic stroke and global cerebral ischemia. A major theme of this chapter is that there is an excitotoxic component to the degeneration of neurons that occurs in a range of acute and chronic neurodegenerative conditions. The clinical manifestations of such excitotoxic damage are exactly those that define the disorder, be it stroke, traumatic injury, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Dietary energy restriction and a ketogenic diet can be effective treatments for seizures, and energy restriction is neuroprotective in animal models of traumatic brain and spinal cord injury, ischemic stroke, AD, PD, and HD. A major goal of future research on excitotoxicity should be to understand how neurons can be protected without compromising their functionality.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9780470672686
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

AU  - Rees, Jeremy
AU  - Brandner, Sebastian
AU  - Howard, Robin
AU  - Jäger, Rolf
AU  - Short, Susan
AU  - Thomas, David
AU  - Townsley, Emma
AU  - Zadeh, Gelareh
C7  - pp. 771-822
TI  - Neuro-Oncology
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444311709.ch20
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444311709.ch20
SP  - 771-822
KW  - neuro-oncology covers scientific and clinical basis of CNS tumours and neurological complications of cancer
KW  - tumours - raised intracranial pressure by mass effect of rapidly growing lesion with associated vasogenic oedema or by blockage of CSF pathways
KW  - pathology of common primary brain and spinal tumours
KW  - molecular pathways involved in tumour formation
KW  - WHO classification of CNS tumours
KW  - neuroepithelial tumours
KW  - imaging of common brain tumours
KW  - primary tumours of spinal cord - chiefly astrocytomas or ependymomas
KW  - brain metastases - radiotherapy and chemotherapy
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Epidemiology of common primary intracranial tumours Clinical features Pathology of common primary brain and spinal tumours Imaging of common brain tumours Management in a multi-disciplinary setting Surgical management of brain and spinal tumours Radiotherapy and chemotherapy for common CNS tumours Non-gliomatous tumours Neurological complications of cancer Neurological complications of chemotherapy References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Battaglia, C.
AU  - Regnani, G.
AU  - Volpe, A.
TI  - WS03-10Vasoactive substances and infertility
JO  - Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology
VL  - 16
IS  - s1
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-24.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-24.x
SP  - 10
EP  - 10
PY  - 2000
AB  - The regulation and significance of ovarian and uterine haemodynamics in human reproductive pathophysiology has been largely studied. In women, ovarian vascularization seems to be responsible for the selection and maturation of follicles both in spontaneous and stimulated IVF cycles while endometrial receptivity is related to uterine blood flow and implicated in the achievement of pregnancy. In patients who underwent to IVF cycles, the PI of both uterine and spiral arteries is significantly lower in patients who became pregnant in comparison with nonpregnant and is associated with significantly lower endometrial cell thromboxane concentrations than non pregnant patients. In poor responders women it has been demonstrated the role of l-arginine in improving uterine and follicular Doppler flow and in increasing ovarian response to gonadotrophin. Recently, in a total of 41 patients undergoing to assisted reproduction, an higher number of oocytes collected and embryos transferred was observed in normo-responders than in poor-responders patients. Furthermore follicular vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) resulted inversely correlated with retrieved oocytes (r?=??0.942; p?=?0.0017). In addition significant higher uterine and perifollicular Doppler flow resistances were observed in poor-responders women. The pregnancy rate/cycle was significantly higher in normo-responders (26%) than poor-responders (6%; p?=?0.037) patients. In conclusion, vasoactive substances improve ovarian response to gonadotrophin and allow a better management of ovarian stimulation in infertile patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - JINNIN, Masatoshi
AU  - ISHIHARA, Tsuyoshi
AU  - BOYE, Eileen
AU  - OLSEN, Bjorn R.
TI  - Recent progress in studies of infantile hemangioma
JO  - The Journal of Dermatology
VL  - 37
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1346-8138.2010.00813.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1346-8138.2010.00813.x
SP  - 283
EP  - 298
KW  - cytokine
KW  - skin tumor
KW  - vascular anomalies.
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract A hallmark of infantile hemangioma, the most common tumor of infancy, is its dramatic growth after birth, by diffuse proliferation of immature endothelial cells, followed by spontaneous regression. The growth and involution of infantile hemangioma is quite different from other vascular anomalies, which do not regress and can occur at any time during life. Some hemangioma lesions can be extremely disfiguring and destructive to normal tissue and may even be life-threatening. Unfortunately, existing therapeutic approaches have limited success and significant adverse effects of some treatment modalities limit their use. Better understanding of the pathogenesis of hemangioma will enable the development of better therapeutic strategies. Here, we review recent studies and new hypotheses on the pathogenesis of the tumor. Detailed mechanisms of activated vascular endothelial growth factor signaling in tumor cells, identification of their origin and characterization of multipotent stem cells that can give rise to infantile hemangioma are shedding new light on this intriguing vascular tumor.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dou, Qing Qing
AU  - Liow, Sing Shy
AU  - Ye, Enyi
AU  - Lakshminarayanan, Rajamani
AU  - Loh, Xian Jun
TI  - Biodegradable Thermogelling Polymers: Working Towards Clinical Applications
JO  - Advanced Healthcare Materials
JA  - Adv. Healthcare Mater.
VL  - 3
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adhm.201300627
DO  - doi:10.1002/adhm.201300627
SP  - 977
EP  - 988
KW  - thermogel
KW  - drug delivery
KW  - tissue engineering
KW  - biodegradable
KW  - biomedical
PY  - 2014
AB  - As society ages, aging medical problems such as organ damage or failure among senior citizens increases, raising the demand for organ repair technologies. Synthetic materials have been developed and applied in various parts of human body to meet the biomedical needs. Hydrogels, in particular, have found extensive applications as wound healing, drug delivery and controlled release, and scaffold materials in the human body. The development of the next generation of soft hydrogel biomaterials focuses on facile synthetic methods, efficacy of treatment, and tunable multi-functionalities for applications. Supramolecular 3D entities are highly attractive materials for biomedical application. They are assembled by modules via various non-covalent bonds (hydrogen bonds, p?p stacking and/or van der Waals interactions). Biodegradable thermogels are a class of such supramolecular assembled materials. Their use as soft biomaterials and their related applications are described in this Review.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lebaschi, Amir
AU  - Nakagawa, Yusuke
AU  - Wada, Susumu
AU  - Cong, Guang-Ting
AU  - Rodeo, Scott A.
TI  - Tissue-specific endothelial cells: a promising approach for augmentation of soft tissue repair in orthopedics
JO  - Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences
JA  - Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci.
VL  - 1410
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nyas.13575
DO  - doi:10.1111/nyas.13575
SP  - 44
EP  - 56
KW  - endothelial cell
KW  - angiocrine factor
KW  - regeneration
KW  - tendon
KW  - ligament
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Biologics are playing an increasingly significant role in the practice of modern medicine and surgery in general and orthopedics in particular. Cell-based approaches are among the most important and widely used modalities in orthopedic biologics, with mesenchymal stem cells and other multi/pluripotent cells undergoing evaluation in numerous preclinical and clinical studies. On the other hand, fully differentiated endothelial cells (ECs) have been found to perform critical roles in homeostasis of visceral tissues through production of an adaptive panel of so-called ?angiocrine factors.? This newly discovered function of ECs renders them excellent candidates for novel approaches in cell-based biologics. Here, we present a review of the role of ECs and angiocrine factors in some visceral tissues, followed by an overview of current cell-based approaches and a discussion of the potential applications of ECs in soft tissue repair.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Soler, Zachary M.
AU  - Yoo, Frederick
AU  - Schlosser, Rodney J.
AU  - Mulligan, Jennifer
AU  - Ramakrishnan, Vijay R.
AU  - Beswick, Daniel M.
AU  - Alt, Jeremiah A.
AU  - Mattos, Jose L.
AU  - Payne, Spencer C.
AU  - Storck, Kristina A.
AU  - Smith, Timothy L.
TI  - Correlation of mucus inflammatory proteins and olfaction in chronic rhinosinusitis
JO  - International Forum of Allergy & Rhinology
JA  - Int Forum Allergy Rhinol.
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/alr.22499
DO  - doi:10.1002/alr.22499
KW  - chronic rhinosinustis
KW  - olfactory disorders
KW  - olfaction
AB  - Background Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is one of the most common causes of olfactory loss, but the pathophysiology underlying olfactory dysfunction in CRS has not been fully elucidated. Previous studies found correlations between olfactory cleft (OC) inflammatory cytokines/chemokines and olfaction in CRS. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between OC mucus inflammatory proteins and olfaction in a multi-institutional cohort. Methods Adults with CRS were prospectively recruited. Demographics, comorbidities, olfactory assessment (Sniffin? Sticks), computed tomography (CT), and OC mucus for protein analysis were collected. Statistical analysis was performed to determine associations between olfactory function, OC mucus protein concentrations, and CT opacification. Results Sixty-two patients were enrolled in the study, with an average age of 48.2 (standard deviation, 16.2) years, and 56.5% were female and 59.7% were classified as CRS with nasal polyps (CRSwNP). Ten of 26 OC mucus proteins were significantly correlated with threshold, discrimination, and identification (TDI) scores and OC opacification. Subgroup analysis by polyp status revealed that, within the CRSwNP group, C-C motif ligand 2 (CCL2), interleukin-5 (IL-5), IL-6, IL-13, IL-10, IL-9, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), CCL5, and CCL11 were significantly correlated with olfaction. For CRS without nasal polyps (CRSsNP), only C-X-C ligand 5 (CXCL5) showed a correlation. In CRSwNP, IL-6, IL-10, vascular endothelial growth factor-A, and immunoglobulin E (IgE) correlated with OC opacification, whereas, in CRSsNP, only CXCL5 showed a correlation. OC mucus proteins and Lund-Mackay score correlated only in the CRSsNP group (CXCL5, IL-5, IL-13, IgE). Conclusion Several OC mucus proteins have been found to correlate with olfactory function and OC opacification. The profile of OC mucus proteins differs between CRSsNP and CRSwNP subgroups, suggesting different mechanisms between groups, but further study is required.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Plenary II: Surgical Controversies 9:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 49
IS  - s7
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
SP  - 497
EP  - 497
PY  - 2008
AB  - Robert E. Gross*, David W. Loring?, John T. Langfitt?, George A. Ojemann?, André Olivier? and Christoph Helmstaedter??*Department of Neurosurgery, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA; ?McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL; ?Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY; ?Department of Neurosurgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; ?Division of Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada and ?Bereich Neuropsychologie, Universitätsklinik für Epileptologie, Bonn, Germany Summary: The surgical treatment of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) by amygdalo-hippocampectomy (AH) has a high likelihood of yielding a seizure-free outcome and associated improvement in quality-of-life. Nevertheless, there are several important areas of controversy with regard to the surgical approach, differences of which may impact the rate of success and the incidence of adverse effects. Cognitive sequelae of temporal lobe surgery may result from (1) resection or transgression of the lateral (neocortical) temporal lobe or the temporal stem, which may lead to impairment in learning, and/or (2) resection of mesial structures, which may lead to decline in material-specific memory. The recent multi-center clinical trial analyzing the predictors of post-surgical quality-of-life will be discussed, including the finding that improvement depends on seizure-freedom irrespective of the occurrence of verbal memory decline. Nevertheless, it is incumbent on surgeons to minimize the occurrence of these cognitive sequelae while maximizing the possibility of seizure-freedom. Several approaches to gain access to the mesial structures will be compared with regard to cognitive outcome, including anterior temporal lobectomy (standard vs. tailored), trans-cortical selective AH and trans-sylvian selective AH, which differ in terms of their disruption of the temporal neocortex and temporal stem. Alternative approaches to the mesial resection will be compared with regard to seizure-free rates and the incidence of post-surgical decline in memory, including tailoring the hippocampal resection to the presence of inter-ictal epileptic spikes vs. performing a standardized resection, and the influence of the amount of hippocampal tissue resected. Open discussion of recent results addressing these important issues will hopefully either propel the field towards consensus, or highlight the need for further randomized clinical trials to improve patient outcome following amygdalo-hippocampectomy for MTLE.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - GLÄSER, K. E.
AU  - SUN, Q.
AU  - WELLS, M. T.
AU  - NIXON, A. J.
TI  - Development of a novel equine whole transcript oligonucleotide GeneChip microarray and its use in gene expression profiling of normal articular-epiphyseal cartilage
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 41
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/042516409X412381
DO  - doi:10.2746/042516409X412381
SP  - 663
EP  - 670
KW  - horse
KW  - gene expression
KW  - microarray
KW  - GeneChip
KW  - whole transcript labelling assay
KW  - mRNA hybridisation
KW  - cartilage gene expression
PY  - 2009
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study: No large scale equine microarray is available commercially to allow genomic and transcriptional profiling of the majority of genes that would define the genetic basis of equine disease. Objectives: To generate a whole transcript target labelled GeneChip to interrogate the equine transcriptome and validate chip performance using RNA samples derived from organs, articular cells and normal cartilage. Methods: Equine mRNA and selected equine gene sequences derived from perfect cross-hybridisation of equine RNA on human microarray GeneChips, were used to design a custom equine gene microarray. Sequence data were used as a template for generation of a glass-slide based 5?-3? multiexon-encompassing gene chip. The microarray was characterised using RNA derived from organs including spleen, liver, brain and kidney, and RNA from cultured chondrocytes, cartilage, synovial tissue and stem cells, employing a whole transcript target labelling assay to sample mRNA across the 5?-3? spectrum. Results: The custom microarray simultaneously interrogated over 12,300 equine specific genes. Probing the chip with mixtures of total RNA derived from parenchymatous organs and articular tissues resulted in 61.7 and 62.8% present calls, respectively. This gene chip provided expression information on up to 90% of the key molecules in important signalling, metabolic and development pathways. Cartilage specific matrix genes were abundantly expressed in normal articular cartilage, but surprisingly high levels of collagen types I, III, V and XI, reflected expression from the epiphyseal layers of maturing articular epiphyseal cartilage. Conclusion: An oligonucleotide microarray with over 12,300 probe sets was generated by uniquely combining a labelling strategy incorporating expressed sequence tags from the entire transcriptome and supplementing selected human sequences that cross-hybridised with the horse. Validation showed robust performance of the microarray. Potential relevance: This array may be a useful tool to elucidate the pathogenesis of equine diseases.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Serratì, S
AU  - Cinelli, M
AU  - Margheri, F
AU  - Guiducci, S
AU  - Del Rosso, A
AU  - Pucci, M
AU  - Fibbi, G
AU  - Bazzichi, L
AU  - Bombardieri, S
AU  - Matucci-Cerinic, M
AU  - Del Rosso, M
TI  - Systemic sclerosis fibroblasts inhibit in vitro angiogenesis by MMP-12-dependent cleavage of the endothelial cell urokinase receptor
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 210
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781405134439
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.2048
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.2048
SP  - 240
EP  - 248
KW  - systemic sclerosis
KW  - endothelial cell
KW  - angiogenesis
KW  - MMP-12
KW  - uPAR
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Failure of endothelial cells to develop new vessels in response to hypoxia is a distinctive feature of systemic sclerosis (SSc) in the avascular phase. We have previously shown that SSc endothelial cells over-express matrix metalloproteinase-12 (MMP-12), which blocks angiogenesis by cleavage of the endothelial urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR). In the present study, we have investigated whether over-expression of MMP-12 and of angiostatic factors, or hypo-expression of angiogenic factors by SSc fibroblasts, contributes to impaired angiogenesis in SSc. Dermal fibroblasts were isolated from healthy subjects (N-Fb) and patients with diffuse SSc (SSc-Fb). Angiogenesis of target normal human microvascular endothelial cells (H-MVECs) was assayed by Matrigel invasion, cell proliferation, and capillary morphogenesis. uPAR cleavage and MMP-12 activity were evaluated by western blotting. We show that the over-expression of MMP-12 by SSc-Fb determines uPAR cleavage in H-MVECs. Conditioned medium from SSc-Fb impaired H-MVEC proliferation, invasion, and capillary morphogenesis. Anti-MMP-12 antibodies restored such impairment. Altered expression of angiostatic/angiogenic factors, including transforming growth factor ?1, did not account for SSc-Fb-dependent impairment of angiogenesis. The over-expression of MMP-12 by both SSc-Fb and SSc endothelial cells indicates that MMP-12 over-production may have a critical pathogenic role in SSc-associated vascular alterations. Copyright ? 2006 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

AU  - Rees, Jeremy
AU  - Bradford, Robert
AU  - Brandner, Sebastian
AU  - Fersht, Naomi
AU  - Jäger, Rolf
AU  - Wilson, Elena
C7  - pp. 849-904
TI  - Neuro-Oncology
SN  - 9781118486177
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118486160.ch21
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118486160.ch21
SP  - 849-904
KW  - brain tumours
KW  - cancer
KW  - central nervous system tumours
KW  - chemotherapy
KW  - neuro-oncology
KW  - neurological complications
KW  - radiotherapy
PY  - 2006
AB  - Summary Neuro-oncology covers both the scientific and clinical aspects of central nervous system (CNS) tumours and neurological complications of cancer. Improvements in radiological and histological diagnosis and surgical technique, advances in molecular neuro-oncology, the application of new biological agents and increasing use of combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy for tumours such as gliomas have led to small but definite improvements in survival. This chapter provides a clinically dominated guide to the key issues in neuro-oncology. It reflects the highly specialised nature of disciplines within neuro-oncology. The chapter outlines the multi-disciplinary aspects of care on clinical management. Brain tumours include primary tumours arising from intracranial structures and metastases from outside the CNS. There are a number of other rarer tumours in childhood that often present with seizures and behave in a benign fashion. They are usually treated with surgery alone.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - XIIth Annual Meeting of the PanAmerican Society for Pigment Cell Research
JO  - Pigment Cell Research
VL  - 17
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781118486177
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0749.2004.00175.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0749.2004.00175.x
SP  - 426
EP  - 426
PY  - 2004
AB  - Implication of Pigment Cell Biology for Understanding Human Diseases was the topic of the The Sixth Annual Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center: Carcinogenesis and Cancer Prevention conference, jointly sponsored by the University of California Irvine College of Medicine and the PanAmerican Society of Pigment Cell Research This was a multi-disciplinary, three-and-one-half day conference for basic science and clinical investigators. The overall objectives of the meeting were to expand ideas, approaches, and collaborations for members of the society by bringing together experts in disciplines relevant to pigment cell research and associated diseases such as melanoma, albinoism, vitiligo, and other diseases of pigment cells. The meeting focused on recent developments in the genetics, novel gene function, gene expression pattern, and post-transcriptional processing of melanocyte specific proteins, melanosome function, melanin structure, and implications of recent basic advances for understanding human pigmentary diseases. These areas have been particularly productive due to recent breakthroughs and rapid progress in microarray gene expression, mass spectrometry, atomic force microscopy, electron paramagnetic resonance, and other physical chemical and molecular biotechnologies.
ER  - 

AU  - Mullin, Christine
AU  - Clifford, Craig A.
C7  - pp. 29-40
TI  - Oncology for the Interventionalist
SN  - 9781118378281
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118910924.ch3
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118910924.ch3
SP  - 29-40
KW  - chemotherapy
KW  - interventional oncology (IO)
KW  - radiation therapy (RT)
KW  - tumor response assessment criteria
KW  - tumor staging systems
KW  - tyrosine kinase inhibitors
PY  - 2004
AB  - Summary This chapter provides the interventional oncology (IO) clinician with the basics of veterinary oncology in regards to the current tumor staging systems for relevant tumors. The most common staging system is the World Health Organization (WHO) TNM staging system. Specifically this is based on the size and/or extent of the primary tumor (T), presence or absence of lymph node involvement (N), and whether metastasis (M), has occurred. The chapter presents an understanding of the chemotherapy basics, including commonly used drugs, proper administration, disposal, toxicities and their associated grading schemes, and the basics of radiation therapy (RT). RT may be used in the adjuvant or neoadjuvant setting, as well as a single modality or concurrently to chemotherapy. The chapter also provides an introduction to tyrosine kinase inhibitors and their expanding use in veterinary medicine, and standard criteria for defining responses in an effort to further standardize studies that evaluate cancer therapies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Taghiyar, Leila
AU  - Hosseini, Samaneh
AU  - Safari, Fatemeh
AU  - Bagheri, Fatemeh
AU  - Fani, Nesa
AU  - Stoddart, Martin J.
AU  - Alini, Mauro
AU  - Eslaminejad, Mohamadreza Baghaban
C8  - TERM-17-0218.R1
TI  - New insight into functional limb regeneration: A to Z approaches
JO  - Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine
JA  - J Tissue Eng Regen Med
VL  - 12
IS  - 9
SN  - 9781118378281
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/term.2727
DO  - doi:10.1002/term.2727
SP  - 1925
EP  - 1943
KW  - amputation
KW  - clinical applications
KW  - gene therapy
KW  - limb regeneration
KW  - stem cell therapy
KW  - tissue engineering
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Limb/digit amputation is a common event in humans caused by trauma, medical illness, or surgery. Although the loss of a digit is not lethal, it affects quality of life and imposes high costs on amputees. In recent years, the increasing interest in limb regeneration has led to enhanced scientific knowledge. However, the limited ability to develop functional limb regeneration in the clinical setting suggests that a challenging issue remains in limb regeneration. Recently, the emergence of regenerative engineering is a promising field to address this challenge and close the gap between science and clinical applications. Cell signalling and molecular mechanisms involved in the limb regeneration process have been extensively studied; however, there is still insufficient data on cell therapy and tissue engineering for limb regeneration. In this review, we intend to focus on therapeutic approaches for limb regeneration that are closely related to gene, immune, and stem cell therapies, as well as tissue engineering approaches that take into consideration the peculiar developmental properties of the limbs. In addition, we attempt to identify the challenges of these strategies for limb regeneration studies in terms of clinical settings and as a road map to accomplish the goal of functional human limb regeneration.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Saraf, Santosh
AU  - McCarthy, Bridget J.
AU  - Villano, J. Lee
TI  - Update on Meningiomas
JO  - The Oncologist
JA  - The Oncologist
VL  - 16
IS  - 11
SN  - 9781118378281
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0193
DO  - doi:10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0193
SP  - 1604
EP  - 1613
KW  - Meningiomas
KW  - Brain tumor
KW  - Epidemiology
KW  - Tumor registry
PY  - 2011
AB  - Learning Objectives After completing this course, the reader will be able to: Evaluate patients with grade II and III meningiomas for possible implementation of adjuvant radiation therapy. Describe options of systemic treatment of refractory meningiomas with hydroxyurea, somatostatin analogues, or CAV multi-agent chemotherapy. This article is available for continuing medical education credit at CME.TheOncologist.com Although meningiomas are the most common tumor in the central nervous system, their incidence, epidemiology, and clinical outcomes have historically been poorly defined. This has been attributed to their benign course, difficulty obtaining histologic diagnosis, and lack of uniform database registration. Their clinical behavior can range from a silent incidentaloma to a lethal tumor. Projections of an aging population should raise medical awareness of an expectant rise in the incidence of meningiomas. This disease increases with advancing age, has a female predilection, and exposure to ionizing radiation is associated with a higher risk for disease development. There have been minimal advances in treatment, except in radiation therapy. Although no U.S. Food and Drug Administration?approved systemic therapy exists, there are treatment options that include hydroxyurea and sandostatin. Currently, no molecularly targeted therapy has provided clinical benefit, although recurring molecular alterations are present and novel therapies are being investigated.
ER  - 
