
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rotella, Joe-Anthony
AU  - Yeoh, Michael
TI  - Taming the zebra: Unravelling the barriers to diagnosing aortic dissection
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 30
IS  - 1
SN  - 1742-6731
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.12871
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.12871
SP  - 119
EP  - 121
KW  - aortic dissection
KW  - cognitive bias
KW  - diagnosis
KW  - error-producing conditions
KW  - patient safety
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Aortic dissection is a lethal cardiovascular emergency that continues to pose a diagnostic dilemma to the emergency physician. The condition is rare, can present atypically and is associated with a cumulative mortality for every hour that passes. While it is a recognised differential of acute chest pain, its prevalence in comparison to other causes often leads to the diagnosis being overlooked. The ED is a busy environment with high patient turnover and varying degrees of complexity and acuity. This increases susceptibility to cognitive bias and error-producing conditions that can lead to delayed or missed diagnosis. In reported cases where aortic dissection has been missed, clinician awareness of the disease was not the primary issue but failure to respond to clinical cues suggestive of aortic dissection was. To improve patient outcomes for this condition, it is important for clinicians to be aware of pertinent cognitive bias and error-producing conditions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Galipeau, James
AU  - Pussegoda, Kusala
AU  - Stevens, Adrienne
AU  - Brehaut, Jamie C.
AU  - Curran, Janet
AU  - Forster, Alan J.
AU  - Tierney, Michael
AU  - Kwok, Edmund S. H.
AU  - Worthington, James R.
AU  - Campbell, Samuel G.
AU  - Moher, David
TI  - Effectiveness and Safety of Short-stay Units in the Emergency Department: A Systematic Review
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
JA  - Acad Emerg Med
VL  - 22
IS  - 8
SN  - 1069-6563
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/acem.12730
DO  - doi:10.1111/acem.12730
SP  - 893
EP  - 907
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Objectives Overcrowding is a serious and ongoing challenge in Canadian hospital emergency departments (EDs) that has been shown to have negative consequences for patient outcomes. The American College of Emergency Physicians recommends observation/short-stay units as a possible solution to alleviate this problem. However, the most recent systematic review assessing short-stay units shows that there is limited synthesized evidence to support this recommendation; it is over a decade old and has important methodologic limitations. The aim of this study was to conduct a more methodologically rigorous systematic review to update the evidence on the effectiveness and safety of short-stay units, compared with usual care, on hospital and patient outcomes. Methods A literature search was conducted using MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library, Embase, ABI/INFOM, and EconLit databases and gray literature sources. Randomized controlled trials of ED short-stay units (stay of 72 hours or less) were compared with usual care (i.e., not provided in a short-stay unit), for adult patients. Risk-of-bias assessments were conducted. Important decision-making (gradable) outcomes were patient outcomes, quality of care, utilization of and access to services, resource use, health system?related outcomes, economic outcomes, and adverse events. Results Ten reports of five studies were included, all of which compared short-stay units with inpatient care. Studies had small sample sizes and were collectively at a moderate risk of bias. Most outcomes were only reported by one study and the remaining outcomes were reported by two to four studies. No deaths were reported. Three of the four included studies reporting length of stay found a significant reduction among short-stay unit patients, and one of the two studies reporting readmission rates found a significantly lower rate for short-stay unit patients. All four economic evaluations indicated that short-stay units were a cost-saving intervention compared to inpatient care from both hospital and health care system perspectives. Results were mixed for outcomes related to quality of care and patient satisfaction. Conclusions Insufficient evidence exists to make conclusions regarding the effectiveness and safety of short-stay units, compared with inpatient care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts presented at the 10th World Congress of Veterinary Anaesthesia, 31st August–4th September 2009, Glasgow, UK
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 37
IS  - 3
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2010.00535a.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2010.00535a.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 88
PY  - 2010
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Navti, O. B.
AU  - Kinning, E.
AU  - Vasudevan, P.
AU  - Barrow, M.
AU  - Porter, H.
AU  - Howarth, E.
AU  - Konje, J.
AU  - Khare, M.
TI  - Review of perinatal management of arthrogryposis at a large UK teaching hospital serving a multiethnic population
JO  - Prenatal Diagnosis
JA  - Prenat. Diagn.
VL  - 30
IS  - 1
SN  - 0197-3851
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pd.2411
DO  - doi:10.1002/pd.2411
SP  - 49
EP  - 56
KW  - arthrogryposis
KW  - prenatal diagnosis
KW  - perinatal management
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Objective To review the prevalence and perinatal management of cases of arthrogryposis delivering at our hospital over a 6-year period. Methods This was a retrospective review of cases of arthrogryposis managed at a UK teaching hospital. Cases were identified from the regional congenital anomalies register and departmental databases. Case notes were reviewed and analysed. Results From 2002 to 2007, there were 27 cases of arthrogryposis. Sixteen (59.3%) were Caucasians, 7(25.9%) Asians and 4(14.8%) Afro-Caribbean; 17(63%) were nulliparous. In eight (29.6%) cases, there was a family history of congenital anomalies. Three had previously affected siblings and in three cases the parents were affected with arthrogryposis. Five (18.5%) were from consanguineous families. Eighteen (66.7%) cases were diagnosed prenatally at a mean gestational age of 21 weeks. Twelve (57%) were delivered by caesarean section. There were 18 live births. Sixteen (59%) cases were reviewed by clinical geneticist. Following detailed review and investigation including post-mortems, 20 (74%) of our cases had a formal diagnosis or likely cause identified. Conclusions Suspected cases of arthrogryposis require multi-disciplinary management to optimise the possibility of making a diagnosis and providing parents with accurate information to enable them to make informed choices regarding the pregnancy and providing information regarding likelihood of recurrence. Copyright ? 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: Computer Analysis of EEG
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_34.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_34.x
SP  - 312
EP  - 324
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Tomoyuki Akiyama, 2 Hiroshi Otsubo, 2 Ayako Ochi, 2 Rajesh RamachandranNair, 2 Irene Elliot, 2 Elizabeth Donner, 2 Shelly K. Weiss, 2 James T. Rutka, and 2 O. Carter Snead III ( 1 Department of Child Neurology, Okayama University Hospital, Okayama, Okayama, Japan ; and 2 Division of Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Multiple band frequency analysis (MBFA), a new frequency analysis method, provides better frequency and temporal resolutions than fast Fourier or wavelet transform. We evaluated dynamic changes of high frequency oscillations (HFOs) on brain surface maps using MBFA to localize epileptogenic zones in neocortical epilepsy. Methods: We studied 2 children with intractable neocortical epilepsy by subdural EEG (SDEEG) at 1 KHz sampling rate. We performed MBFA for 1?5 second ictal EEG using the software Short Spectrum Eye (Gram, Saitama, Japan). We identified HFOs, determined the frequency range, and calculated averaged powers at every 10 ms for all electrodes. We imported the averaged powers into a topographic mapping program Prism and Insight (Persyst, Prescott, AZ) to visualize HFO powers on the brain surface picture. To analyze temporal interrelationships of regions with HFOs, we arranged HFO power maps at every 20 ms to project movies of ictal HFOs on the brain surface. Case 1: A 17 year old right handed girl presented with simple partial seizures consisting of numbness and tingling sensations in the right arm followed by clonic movements and secondary generalization. Case 2: A 14 year old left handed boy with asymmetric epileptic spasms in clusters. Results: Case 1; During partial seizures, MBFA of 25-channel SDEEG showed 80?130 Hz HFOs over the middle portion of the left postcentral gyrus and upper portion of the left post- and pre-central gyri. Sequential power maps of 80?130 Hz HFOs revealed high powers over these 2 regions, and reverberating power changes between them with a maximum at the middle portion of postcentral gyrus. We resected the upper and middle portions of left postcentral gyrus. She has rare and brief partial motor seizures without sensory aura and secondary generalization 9 months after surgery. Case 2; During spasms, MBFA of 106-channel SDEEG showed extensive but noncontiguous 60?150 Hz HFOs over the right superior and inferior frontal, and middle temporal gyri. Sequential power maps of 80?120 Hz HFOs revealed initial high power over the right superior frontal gyrus and subsequent activations over other 2 regions. We performed partial right frontal lobectomy, cortical excisions of the superior and inferior frontal gyri, and middle temporal gyrus where predominant HFOs existed. He is seizure free 6 months after surgery. Conclusions: The combination of MBFA and sequential brain surface HFO power mapping enabled us to recognize the localization and dynamic changes of ictal HFOs. This spatial and temporal analysis of HFO cortical mapping may disclose the behavior of ictal networks in the cortical epileptogenic zones. 1 Eishi Asano, 1 Csaba Juhasz, 1 Aashit Shah, 1 Otto Muzik, 1 Diane C. Chugani, 1 Sandeep Sood, and 1 Harry T. Chugani ( 1 Pediatrics, Neurology, Radiology, Neurosurgery, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: Cortical tubers are the hallmark of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and are usually associated with overlying and surrounding gray matter on MRI. In the present study, we have quantitatively analyzed ictal electrocorticography (ECoG) data using subdural and depth electrodes to determine whether epileptic seizures originate more frequently from glucose hypometabolic cortex surrounding a tuber than normometabolic cortex. Secondly, we asked whether epileptic seizures are generated by a cortical tuber itself or the cortex surrounding a tuber in children with TSC. Methods: We studied a series of 16 children with TSC and uncontrolled seizures (age: 5 months to 16 years; 11 boys), who underwent MRI, glucose metabolism PET and prolonged intracranial ECoG recording for subsequent cortical resection. The location of electrodes was derived from planar X-rays and displayed on the 3D brain surface reconstructed from MRIs showing the location of tubers and also hypometabolic areas from co-registered PET scans (Muzik et al, Neurology 2000). For each seizure event, the center of ictal discharges was objectively defined as the electrode showing the maximal increase of ECoG magnitude specific to an ictal onset in a seizure consisting of continuous rhythmic activity or the electrode showing the maximal spike magnitude in a seizure consisting of periodic spike activity or a single spike followed by fast wave bursts (Asano et al, Epilepsia 2005 [in press]). We performed a one-sample t-test to determine whether the center of ictal discharges was located more frequently in glucose hypometabolic regions than normometabolic regions, and whether the center of ictal discharges was located more frequently in the cortex surrounding a tuber than the cortical tuber itself. Results: A total of 70 seizures were objectively analyzed in the subjects where subdural electrodes but not depth electrodes were placed on the presumed epileptic hemisphere. In 57 out of the 70 seizures, the center of ictal discharges was located in the glucose hypometabolic cortices. Ictal discharges arose more frequently from the glucose hypometabolic cortex than from normometabolic cortex (p < 0.001). In a single subject where a depth electrode was inserted into a tuber, no spontaneous seizures were captured and we were not able to determine the location of ictal onset zones. Conclusions: These results suggest that most of the epileptic seizures in children with TSC may be generated by glucose hypometabolic regions associated with either the dysplastic cortex surrounding a tuber or the tuber itself. Further studies of patients with depth electrodes are required to determine whether epileptic seizures are generated by a cortical tuber itself or the cortex surrounding a tuber in children with TSC. (Supported by NIH: K23NS047550.) 1 Chad Carlson, 1 Catherine Schevon, 3 Werner Doyle, 3 Howard Weiner, 2 Joshua Cappell, 2 Ronald Emerson, 2 Lawrence Hirsch, 2 Robert Goodman, 1 Orrin Devinsky, 1 Steven Pacia, and 1 Ruben Kuzniecky ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurological Institute, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: Traditional review of scalp and intracranial subdural video-EEG studies rely primarily upon the visual analysis of the interictal and ictal patterns. In many patients, particularly those with multifocal or neocortical epilepsy, seizures are difficult to localize due to rapid spread of ictal activity and high frequency rhythms that may elude detection, potentially affecting the surgical outcome. Time-frequency analysis is a conceptually simple technique that, when applied to intracranial EEG recordings, may reveal information that is not apparent to visual inspection alone. To facilitate its use, an easily interpreted visual presentation was created that provides an overview of the activity of the complete EEG montage. This case series examines the role of spectral time-frequency analysis in five patients with medically refractory epilepsy who underwent invasive subdural electrode video-EEG studies. Methods: Interictal and ictal recordings were studied from five patients who underwent intracranial subdural electrode studies for seizure localization as part of a presurgical evaluation. Time-frequency spectral analysis was performed on all channels over sequential one-second time windows. The spectrogram over the 1?200 Hz frequency range was displayed using a colormap with intensity corresponding to the logarithm of the FFT of the input signal over a one-second time window; the colormap is fixed for a given sequence to allow comparisons over time and between channels. EEG was recorded on a Nicolet Bravo system with a sampling rate of 400 Hz/channel and bandpass filtered (4th order Butterworth) at 0.5?125 Hz. All computations were implemented in Matlab. Results: Spectral analysis of seizure onsets are shown for the five patients and compared to the clinical interpretation. In four cases, the additional information provided confirmatory support for the clinical localization, while in the fourth case the analysis supported an alternative candidate seizure focus, an observation consistent with the surgical outcome. Conclusions: This case series illustrates the complementary role of spectral time-frequency analysis in the setting of intracranial EEG recordings, as well as the importance of a unified presentation that permits direct comparisons between channels. The role of this technique in providing information not apparent on visual EEG interpretation and its contribution to the evaluation of complex neocortical epilepsies, as well as its potential effect on surgical outcome, warrants further assessment. (Supported by FACES.) 1 Wanpracha A. Chaovalitwongse, 2 Rajesh C. Sachdeo, 3 Panos M. Pardalos, 4 Leonidas D. Iasemidis, and 5 J. C. Sackellares ( 1 Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ ; 2 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, St. Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ ; 3 Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 4 Bioengineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ ; and 5 Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: At least 2 million people in the U.S. (1% of population) currently suffer from epilepsy. The most disabling aspect of epilepsy is recurrent seizures, in which the majority of epileptic patients (at least 1 million) feel that they get inadequate treatments or seizures cannot be controlled by available treatments. It is very clear that improved treatments are desperately needed. In this study, we herein propose novel quantitative approaches that can detect abnormalities in the brain's electrical activity. The results of this study will pave our way to the development of an Automated Brain Activity Classifier, which is a prerequisite of seizure prediction process. Methods: Continuous 26-channel long-term intracranial EEG recordings previously obtained in 3 patients with medically intractable partial seizures were used to test the automated brain activity classifier. Patient 1 had 15 seizures in a 10-day recording; patient 2 had 8 seizures in 6 days; patient 3 had 7 seizures in 12 days. The automated brain activity classifier involved the following steps: (1) quantify the chaoticity properties (i.e., Lyapunov exponents, angular frequency, entropy) of the brain dynamics, (2a) use the statistical cross validation technique to estimate statistical distances between an EEG epoch and the brain activity from different physiological states (normal, pre-seizure, post-seizure), (2b) use optimization techniques to find support vector machines to separate different brain physiological states, (3) classify the EEG epoch to the physiological state of the most brain activity (smallest statistical distance). Results: The sensitivities of the statistical cross validation approach in classifying pre-seizure EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 89.39%, 85.71%, and 84.44%, respectively and the sensitivities in classifying normal EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 93.50%, 78.00%, and 75.00%, respectively. The sensitivities of the support vector machines approach in classifying pre-seizure EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 81.21%, 71.18%, and 74.13%, respectively and the sensitivities in classifying normal EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 87.46%, 76.85%, and 70.60%, respectively. Conclusions: Based on the proposed statistical classification approaches, this automated brain activity classifier can classify EEG epochs into the accurate brain physiological state with performance characteristics that could have practical clinical utility. The classifier could be incorporated into clinical EEG monitoring system or, incorporated into a seizure warning system used to activate timed physiological or pharmacological interventions. 1 Lei Ding, 2 Gregory A. Worrell, 2 Terrence D. Lagerlund, and 1 Bin He ( 1 Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Minnesota ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic ) Rationale: Substantial interest exists in the development of noninvasive localization of epileptogenic foci, since the current standard utilization of subdural electrocorticography and depth electrodes requires surgical implantation with some additional risks to the patient. The aim of the present study is to evaluate a novel noninvasive source localization approach for localizing epileptogenic foci from scalp EEG. Methods: The traditional dipole source localization approach faces problems for multiple dipole source localization as the number of sources increases. We recently developed a new subspace source localization approach, i.e. three-dimensional first principle vectors (3D-FINE), for EEG-based epileptic focus localization (Xu et al, Phys Med  2 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; and 3 Neurology and Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Ten to twenty percent of children with facial port-wine stain (PWS) develop neurologic features characteristic of Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS), which may include seizures, visual field defects, hemiparesis, and cognitive impairment. Screening often involves serial neuroimaging, which carries a sedation risk and is often falsely negative in infants. We have reported that decreased power on the affected side correlated with neurologic impairments in subjects with SWS, and efforts are ongoing to develop quantitative EEG (qEEG) as a tool for early diagnosis in SWS. Methods: Three infants with unilateral facial port-wine stains had standard 16-channel EEG recordings at approximately 4 month intervals. Thirty artifact-free, two-second epochs were selected from each record. Bipolar data from each epoch was submitted to a fast Fourier transform with a frequency resolution of 0.5 Hz. Power spectra from each side of the head were compared using a laterality score (LS = (Left - Right)/(Left + Right). The LS were calculated for delta (2.0?3.5 Hz), theta (4.0?7.5 Hz), alpha (8.0?12.5 Hz), beta (13.0?32.0 Hz), and total power (2?32 Hz). All EEGs were independently read by an experienced electroencephalographer. Results: Subject #1 had a left-sided PWS and initially left-sided brain involvement with his first focal seizure at 8 months of age. EEGs at 11 and 15 months were read as symmetric, but quantitative EEG showed significantly lower power in the left hemisphere. MRI at this time showed left-sided leptomeningeal angiomatosis. MRI at 18 months showed bilateral occipital lesions. Further EEGs at 19 and 23 months yielded no statistically significant asymmetries in total power, possibly reflecting either his bilateral involvement or normal development and fully controlled seizures. Subject #2 had EEGs at 2, 6, and 10 months of age that were read as normal; however, qEEG showed significantly lower ipsilateral power at 2 and 10 months. MRI at 6 months showed unilateral leptomeningeal enhancement. This child has never seized and is developmentally normal. Subject #3 had a single EEG at 4 months that was read as normal; qEEG showed no significant asymmetry. MRI at six months showed no stigmata of SWS. This infant has had neither seizures nor any neurodevelopmental delay. Subjects #2 and #3 will continue to have EEGs every 3 months for a total of two years. Conclusions: In infants with a unilateral port-wine stain, serial qEEG shows decreases in power over the hemisphere that is affected or at-risk for neurological impairment. Further studies are needed to determine if qEEG is a reliable and sensitive method for identifying children with unilateral PWS who need neuroimaging and determining the optimal timing of imaging. 1 Michael D. Furman, 1 Jennifer D. Simonotto, 2 Paul R. Carney, and 1 William L. Ditto ( 1 Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 2 Department of Pediatric Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Currently, neural activity and focus localization in epileptic patients is essential for pre-surgical evaluation. Several methods have been devised to locate activity by applying combinations of EEG, MEG, PET, SPECT, and fMRI. Phase-Dynamic Quantification combines Recurrence Quantification Analysis, phase correlation, and three-dimensional temporal and spatial alignment to track seizure activity along with pre- and postictal responses. Utilizing high-frequency (12?25kHz) multi-channel brain activity, we introduce a method for correlating dynamic temporal phase which permits tracking of the seizure focus. Methods: Multichannel neuronal potentials were collected synchronously over the course of 2 mos from a chronically seizing animal model of limbic epilepsy (n = 1). Arrays of tungsten microwire electrodes were stereotaxically implanted in the dentate and CA1-2 of the hippocampus. Neuronal activity was recorded at 24414.1Hz. Electrode placement and CA1-2/Dentate targeting were verified post-mortem using a high-field (17.6 Tesla) MRI brain imaging instrument. Hippocampus depth and grid recording were also obtained in humans undergoing presurgical epilepsy evaluations (n = 2). Cortical activity was recorded continuously at 400Hz. All data sets were analyzed for phase correlation. Results: In all time series analyzed, the results demonstrated a well-defined seizure path within the epileptogenic focus. In each human data set, phase correlation coincided with the seizure focus that was determined by visual analysis of temporal lobe depth and grid recordings. Figure shows dynamic moving focus phase correlation using three 400 Hz signals. Conclusions: Phase-Dynamic Quantification reveals epilepsy as a highly organized contiguous neural pathway that can be localized and tracked. This method may of clinical utility assist with seizure localization. (Supported by Office of Naval Research Funding, National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, Children's Miracle Network.) 1 Georges A. Ghacibeh, 2 Deng-Shan Shiau, 2 Linda Dance, 1 Stephan Eisenschenk, and 1,2,3 J. Chris Sackellares ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 2 Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Department of Biomedical Engeneering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Short-Term Maximum Lyapunov Exponent (STLmax) is a measure of the order of a dynamical system. Smaller STLmax values indicate that the signal is more ordered. In temporal lobe epilepsy, the dynamical properties of the preictal, ictal and postictal states are distinctly different and can be defined quantitatively. STLmax has been observed to be the lowest during a seizure, intermediate in the preictal period and highest in the postictal state. Antiepileptic medications are known to reduce seizure frequency in most epilepsy patients. We postulate that high levels of antiepileptic medications are associated with higher STLmax. The objectives of this study are to compare STLmax values from intracranial EEG recordings when patients have high, medium and low levels of antiepileptic medications. Methods: Two patients with intracranial subdural grids were recruited: patient 1 had right fronto-temporal and patient 2 had left fronto-central grids. Patients were tapered off their antiepileptic medications to record seizures. Patient 1 was on phenytoin, levetiracetam, carbamazepine and zonisamide and Patient 2 was levetiracetam and topiramate. Medication dosages were collected daily for all antiepileptic drugs during the entire monitoring period and medication levels were obtained for the older drugs. For each patient, three distinct time segments were determined based on their medication dosages and levels. Day 1: high medication levels, Day 2: medium levels and Day 3: low levels. All three segments were chosen to be at least 6 hours prior or after a seizure. For each patient, a total of 8 channels were selected for analysis. Four channels were within the epileptic focus and four outside the epileptic focus. For each analyzed electrode, STLmax was calculated for each non-overlapping 10.24 second segment (4096 EEG points in 400 Hz recording). A total of 100 mean STLmax values were randomly sampled from time intervals in each of the three medication levels. One-way ANOVA test was applied to test the significance of the effect among medication levels. If the effect was found significant, multiple comparison tests were utilized to test the significance of pairwise differences. Results: In both patients, within both epileptic and non-epileptic areas, EEG signals recorded during high medication level (day 1) exhibited significantly higher (p < 0.01) STLmax values (less ordered) than during medium (day 2) and low (day 3) medication levels. Conclusions: Antiepileptic medications have an influence on STLmax. High levels are associated with increased STLmax value. This effect may be related to the anticonvulsant properties of these medications. 1 Julie D. Golomb, 2 Michel Shamy, 2 April R. Levin, 2 Kathryn Davis, 2 Kelly A. McNally, 3 Kenneth Vives, 3 Dennis D. Spencer, 2,3 Susan S. Spencer, 2 Hitten Zaveri, and 1,2,3,4 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 2 Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; and 4 Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Prior studies suggest that temporal lobe seizures cause impaired function in widespread neocortical areas in addition to mesial temporal lobe regions. A recent study by Blumenfeld et al. (NEUROLOGY, 2004) found increased low voltage fast and polyspike ictal activity in ipsilateral mesial and lateral temporal regions, with simultaneous large amplitude ictal slowing in frontoparietal regions. However, these observations were based on subjective ratings of the intracranial EEG recordings and were not correlated with behavior. In the present study we employ quantitative analyses to more accurately describe ictal and post-ictal changes associated with various brain regions during complex and simple partial seizures. Methods: 12 Patients with surgically confirmed mesial temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent intracranial EEG monitoring and had no seizures during a follow-up period of at least 1 year after temporal lobe resection were selected for analysis. Seizures that secondarily generalized were excluded. Electrode contacts were assigned to one of nine cortical regions based on MRI surface reconstructions. Power measurements for classically defined spectral bands were calculated with the Fourier transform for the ictal and peri-ictal time periods for each EEG signal. Results: A small, brief increase in beta (13?25 Hz) and gamma (25?50 Hz) frequency power was seen in ipsilateral mesial temporal regions immediately following seizure onset. This was followed by a much larger increase in alpha (8?13 Hz), beta, gamma, and particularly theta (4?8 Hz) power in ipsilateral mesial and lateral temporal regions. Simultaneously, a large increase in delta (0?4 Hz) power was seen in lateral, medial, and orbital frontal regions, which sometimes persisted throughout the post-ictal period. Subclinical seizures involved transient changes confined to the ipsilateral mesial temporal contacts. Although considerable between-patient variability was found, individual patients showed remarkable consistency in EEG patterns across their seizures. Conclusions: Quantitative power analysis showed increased high frequency activity in temporal regions and low frequency activity in frontal regions during partial seizures of temporal lobe origin. These results support and expand upon previous studies of EEG activity positing that neocortical slowing represents a form of ?surround inhibition? during such seizures. Further analyses may reveal specific differences between EEG signals in complex and simple partial seizures, and contribute to an understanding of behavioral manifestations of temporal lobe seizures. 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to investigate whether Independent Component Analysis (ICA) can be applied in intracranial recordings to analyze interactions between the temporal lobes during temporal lobe seizures. ICA has already been used in scalp EEGs to isolate spikes from background and to help lateralize temporal lobe seizures Methods: Intracranial recordings of temporal lobe seizures from 8 patients with bitemporal implantation were analyzed. Scalp EEG recordings showed that the patients had seizures originating from both temporal lobes. The seizures of each patient were classified in four categories: unilateral right or left (UR or UL), and bilateral with right or left onset (BR or BL). ICA decomposes the EEG into as many statistically independent components as there are channels. ICA was applied to the seizures, and only components with ictal activity in the first 10 seconds of the seizure were studied. Correlation coefficients were calculated between these components and every channel of the original EEG, in the time interval preceding the appearance of bilateral activity. Components were classified as unilateral if their correlation was greater than 0.2 exclusively with channels in one hemisphere; if the correlation was greater than 0.2 with channels in both hemispheres, the component was labeled as bilateral. Nonparametric statistics were applied. Results: 46 seizures were analyzed (11 UR, 13 UL, 12 BR and 10 BL). There were five patients with seizures beginning independently in both temporal lobes, two patients with right temporal seizures only, and one patient with left temporal seizures only. Even though the correlation was calculated when seizure activity was unilateral, the proportion of components that were bilateral was significantly lower (p = 0.001) in seizures that stayed unilateral (22% for UR and 26% for UL) than in seizures that became bilateral (46% for BR and 48% for BL). There were no significant differences between right and left seizures. Bilateral seizures were significantly longer than unilateral seizures (p = 0.000), but the duration of the seizure was not significantly correlated (p > 0.05) with the proportion of bilateral components. Conclusions: In patients with bitemporal epilepsy, more than 20% of the components extracted using ICA have a bitemporal distribution even at the time when the seizures are apparently unilateral. The proportion of bilateral components during the unilateral phase is significantly higher in seizures with subsequent contralateral spread. It therefore appears that minimal contralteral seizure activity is present even when the discharge appears unilateral, and that the more such contralateral activity is present, the more the seizure is likely to spread. (Supported by CIHR Grant # MOP 38079 Postdoctoral research grant from the Department of Education of the Basque Government.) 1 C. Grova, 2 J. Daunizeau, 1 A. Bagshaw, 1 E. Kobayashi, 2 J.M. Lina, 1 F. Dubeau, and 1 J. Gotman ( 1 Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill U., Montreal, QC, Canada ; and 2 Centre de Recherche en Mathématiques, Montreal, Canada ) Rationale: The first objective is to compare two imaging modalities to better identify brain areas where spikes are generated: ? EEG source localization, which allows estimating a current density along the cortical surface at each time sample of the spike ? Simultaneous EEG/fMRI, which allows measuring the hemodynamic correlates of EEG activity Those modalities highlight several aspects of spike generation, because signals have different physiological origins and complementary spatial and temporal resolutions. Moreover, EEG source localization has no unique solution and adding prior information is necessary. The second objective is to evaluate whether it is relevant to include fMRI information in EEG source localization. Methods: 9 patients with focal epilepsy underwent EEG/fMRI examination and EEG recording outside the scanner. The EEG/fMRI protocol consists of recording 19 EEG channels inside the MR scanner. After manual detection of interictal spikes, data were analysed using a linear model combining several hemodynamic responses after each spike. T maps showing brain areas with significant fMRI responses were interpolated on the cortical surface, to compare with EEG source localization. Source localization was applied to averaged spikes recorded outside the scanner (43 channels). We applied the Maximum Entropy on the Mean (MEM) approach 1 to estimate the current density on the cortical surface at each time sample of the spike. fMRI results were compared with MEM results obtained at the peaks of the spike. The level of concordance was assessed by measuring the minimal geodesic distance D between local extrema of the fMRI and MEM maps. We also measured an index A to assess whether fMRI could be included as a prior for EEG source localization, using a hierarchical Bayesian model 2. Large positive values of A mean that fMRI data were highly relevant information regarding EEG data. Results: 3 patients did not show any fMRI response. Among the 6 other patients, MEM and fMRI results showed good concordance in 4 (D < 2.5 cm). However, qualitative analysis revealed that most exhibited concordant areas and areas unique to each modality. Our index A was in good agreement with the qualitative comparison of MEM and fMRI results. Conclusions: Our study highlights that EEG source localization and EEG/fMRI clearly explored different phenomena linked to spike generation. Brain areas involved could be concordant or complementary regarding both modalities. The index of relevance A seems promising to decide whether fMRI or a part of the fMRI map should be used as prior for source localization. By analysing more data, those approaches may provide a better understanding of the mechanisms involved during spike generation and propagation. REFERENCES 1.?Amblard C et al 2004 IEEE TBME, 51(3). 2.?Daunizeau J et al 2005 IEEE TSPS, in press (Supported by Canadian Institute of Health Research, Jeanne Timmins Costello Fellowship.) 1 Kurt E. Hecox, 1 Fengmei Lui, 1 Seaon Marler, 1 Jennifer Dwyer, 1 Michael Kohrman, 1 Arnetta McGhee, and 1 Joel Fontanarosa ( 1 Pediatrics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Dynamic Systems analysis has been applied to the study of interictal and ictal EEG data for more than a decade. Abnormalities in these measures have been reported in the detection, prediction and localization of seizures. The purpose of this study is to extend these observations to the pediatric population, to compare ictal data to three forms of baseline data and to describe some of the features of the spatial distribution of the systems changes, for multiple metrics. Methods: Intracranial and extracranial recordings were obtained from a series of pediatric aged patients undergoing evaluation for surgical treatment. Ages varied from 5 to 19 years of age. Three examples of seizures, interictal sleep, interictal awake and preictal (within one minute of seizure onset) were selected and analyzed for each patient. Metrics were calculated for correlation dimension (least squares), correlation dimension (maximum likelihood), Kolmogorov entropy, eigenvalues and Z (a global measure of nonlinearity) in each case. These metrics were calculated for at least eight surface electrodes (four over each hemisphere) and for at least 16 intracranial electrodes. The intracranial electrodes were further subdivided into ?involved? versus ?uninvolved? in the ictal event according to visual analysis. These data were subjected to analysis of variance and chi square analyses. Results: Eighty percent of the ictal events were detectable. Differences were seen between sleep and wakefulness baselines for 70% of the the group. Preictal changes were seen for 40% of the group, compared to baseline. Seemingly uninvolved electrodes show changes in these metrics both ictally and interictally. The magnitude of the change and the metris showing the changes varied across patients but eigenvalue was most commonly changed amongst the measures. Eigenvalue and correlation dimension (least squares) were the least specific spatially, while Kolmogorov entropy and Z were the most spatially specific. Conclusions: We continue to observe ictal changes in dynamic systems measures in pediatric aged patients with seizures. The measures are also abnormal in a number of patients interictally. No single metric is complete enough to stand alone, from a detection or anticipation perspective. Anticipation was possible in nearly half of the cases. The most surprising findings of this study were that electrodes felt to be ?control? or uninvolved in the seizures can show significant changes in these metrics and that the metrics vary considerably in their spatial specificity. Localizing a focus using these metrics must be performed with considerable caution. Further, the differences in spatial distribution across metrics suggest that these metrics do not all reflect the operation of a single process. (Supported by Falk Medical Trust Foundation.) 1 Christophe C. Jouny, 1 Piotr J. Franaszczuk, and 1 Gregory K. Bergey ( 1 Department of Neurology - Epilepsy Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Partial seizures originate from focal regions of epileptogenesis. The dynamic of seizure onset and pattern of ictal discharges may reflect the cerebral region of seizure onset. To date, however, these observations have been largely derived from visual analysis or simple frequency characterization. We here report detailed comparative analysis of seizure dynamics at seizure onset. Methods: We analyzed data from multiple partial seizures from patients with mesial temporal onset epilepsy (MTLE; n = 3) or with neocortical lesional epilepsy (NLE; n = 6) monitored in the epilepsy monitoring unit for presurgical evaluation with intracranial subdural grid arrays. The time-frequency decomposition was obtained with the matching pursuit (MP) method. The Gabor atom density (GAD) (Jouny et al. 2003), derived from MP, provides a measure of signal complexity. Different features of the intracranial EEG (ICEEG) or of GAD can be used to synchronize seizures. Onset of complexity increase was used to synchronize the events. Time-frequency maps reconstructed from the MP decomposition were then re-aligned and averaged. Results: GAD plots reveal that all mesial temporal onset seizures and neocortical onset seizures have an increase in complexity at seizure onset and have a reproducible pattern of onset. These consistent features can be used to synchronize the events. Because of the slight variability in timing between different phases of the seizure, one can enhance the visibility of any of these phases by choosing their feature as the synchronizing event for the re-alignment. Onset features which are not time-locked will not be enhanced by averaging. In this study, averaged seizure onsets exhibit distinguishable predominant frequency components in 5 out of 9 patients (either ?7Hz, ?15Hz, ?20Hz or ?40Hz) or activities with a broader spectral signature in 3 out of 9 patients. Conclusions: The assumption that multiple seizure onsets in a given patient have stereotypical features is based predominantly on clinical experience and visual analysis. We studied here the detailed time-frequency components of partial seizures and, by averaging their reconstructed maps, isolated the components that are common to all seizures. One of the advantage of the method was to reveal an onset pattern including high-frequency components (>40Hz) with a decreasing main frequency which was not evident on ICEEG. High-frequency components during onset might go unnoticed - especially when embedded in electrodecrement pattern of onset. High-frequency recordings and detailed time-frequency analysis can reveal the dynamic evolution of onsets and provide important information regarding timing of onset pattern and localization. (Supported by NIH grant NS 33732.) 1 Anna Korzeniewska, 2 Rafal Kus, 1 Piotr Franaszczuk, 3 Ciprian Crainiceanu, and 1 Nathan E. Crone ( 1 Department of Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; 2 Laboratory of Medical Physics, Warsaw University, Warsaw, Poland ; and 3 Department of Biostatistics, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: The cortical regions responsible for word production have been mapped with a variety of techniques, but the dynamic interactions between these cortical regions in real time have yet to be explored in depth. To investigate these interactions we recorded electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals while subjects spoke words in response to either visual or auditory stimuli, and we studied event-related gamma activity flows among different cortical regions. Methods: The short-time direct directed transfer function (SdDTF) is a new method for estimating causal interactions between different brain regions. SdDTF evaluates the direction and intensity of EEG activity flows during consecutive short-time epochs, for selected frequency bands. This multichannel approach enables comparisons of the strengths of relations between sites. ECoG signals recorded during two tasks, word repetition (auditory stimulus) and picture naming (visual stimulus), were analyzed. Event-related changes in cortical network interactions were studied with emphasis on 60?140 Hz (high gamma). Results: Auditory word stimuli were associated with activity flows mainly between sites within superior temporal gyrus (STG) and from STG to inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and to ventral sensorimotor cortex (vSMC); interactions between STG and basal temporal language area (BTLA) were also observed. In the interval between offset of the auditory word stimulus and onset of the verbal response, flows were observed predominantly from STG to IFG and BTLA. Flows between IFG, STG, and vSMC were also present. During picture naming the interval between onset of the stimulus and the verbal response was associated with many bidirectional interactions between IFG and STG, and between IFG, BTLA and vSMC. Spoken responses to both visual and auditory stimuli were associated with relatively fewer interactions, albeit involving all aforementioned sites. Conclusions: Cortical network interactions during word production predictably depend on stimulus modality. These interactions are reflected by changes in high-gamma activity flows between and within cortical regions commonly involved in language processing. (Supported by NINDS R01-NS41598.) 1 Lorant Kovacs, 2 Nandor Ludvig, 2 Orrin Devinsky, and 2 Ruben I. Kuzniecky ( 1 Software Division, ESCO, Garden Grove, CA ; and 2 Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The objective was to develop a program (?SeizureGuard?) that is ideal for recognizing/predicting EEG seizures, real-time, within the limited power resources of future, fully implanted therapeutic devices, like the hybrid neuroprosthesis. Methods: Instead of handling the EEG signals as a succession of waves, the SeizureGuard program decomposed these signals into vectors, describing each vector with its angle and magnitude. From the derived vector-stream, the program computed various neurobiologically relevant parameters, including inter-vector interval and vector-periodicity. These parameters were indexed according to their relevance to the characteristics of electrographic seizure-onsets. No complex numbers were used in the calculations. To validate the algorithm, a data miner utility program was utilized to extract continuous EEG signals from files generated with a Nicolet BMSI 6000 recording system. All recordings were obtained from temporal lobe epilepsy patients presurgically implanted with subdural strip- and grid-electrodes. Results: The program accurately recognized subclinical EEG seizures within 1?2 sec from their onset. Artifacts and non-epileptic rhythmic discharges and large-amplitude waves were not falsely indicated. Interestingly, the occasional false-positive seizure detections by the program in the interictal phase actually indicated bursts of sharp waves/spikes that occurred in the recording channel(s) of seizure activity. Conclusions: The SeizureGuard program, utilizing a computationally inexpensive algorithm that decomposes the EEG waves into vectors, is suitable for recognizing the onsets of focal subclinical seizures and has the potential to indicate epileptiform events prior to these seizures. As such, it seems to be ideal for use in implanted seizure-controlling devices. (Supported by NYU/FACES.) 1 Yuan Lai, 2 Wim Van Drongelen, 2 David M. Frim, 2 Kurt E. Hecox, and 1 Bin He ( 1 Biomedical Engineering, University of Minnesota ; and 2 Pediatrics, University of Chicago ) Rationale: In past decades, epilepsy surgery has been recognized increasingly as a viable treatment for patients with medically refractory seizures. However, the large gap between number of potential surgical candidates and number of patients being treated with surgery still exists due to the lengthy, complex, and expensive procedure of current practice of using invasive procedures to identify epileptic foci responsible for the seizures. If epileptic foci can be identified noninvasively, numerous epilepsy patients undergoing surgical treatment will benefit significantly from the noninvasive surgical planning. The aim of present study is to evaluate a novel noninvasive electrophysiological cortical imaging technique (He et al., IEEE-TBME, 46:1264?1268, 1999) to image and localize ictal activities from scalp EEG. Methods: All patients are pediatric patients with intractable partial epilepsy in the Pediatric Epilepsy Center at the University of Chicago. For each patient, multiple habitual seizures were visually identified according to the IFSECN criteria. Seizure activities with sudden propagation to whole brain were excluded from further analysis. For ictal EEG recordings with sustained rhythmic focal morphology, time-frequency analysis has been applied as preprocessing. Spatial-temporal evolution of ictal discharges were examined using wavelet analysis to obtain a time-varying energy distribution in each frequency band. The dominant frequency is determined with highest energy concentration, at which the phase encoding is used for multi-channel EEG around seizure onset to generate a scalp potential map representing the major ictal activity. The cortical imaging algorithm (He et al., 1999) was then applied to reconstruct the cortical potential distribution from the phase encoded scalp potential map. Since pediatric patients usually have seizure originating from neocortex, the estimated cortical potential generated by different underlying sources are less likely to overlap so that it can be used to observe the source activity with much less deviation as compared to that from a deeper source. Results: Five pediatric epilepsy patients by various causes were studied, who are either seizure free or having substantial seizure reduction after neurosurgical resections. For all patients, the cortical imaging analysis has been able to successfully reveal underlying epileptogenic cortical zones at different lobes (temporal or extra-temporal, one or two epileptogenic foci for each patient), which are consistent with clinical findings and confirmed by neurosurgical resections and outcomes. Conclusions: Cortical imaging can reliably localize cortical activity in regions displaying epileptiform activity; these regions were confirmed by successful surgical resection. Cortical imaging may become a useful alternative for noninvasive pre-surgical and surgical planning in pediatric epilepsy patients. (Supported by NIH EB 00178 and NSF BES-0411898.) 1 Pierre LeVan, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: The objective of this study was to devise an automated system to remove artefacts from ictal scalp EEG, using independent component analysis (ICA). Current ICA methods rely on a tedious visual identification of artefactual sources among extracted components, hence the desire for a fully automated method. Methods: 69 ictal scalp recordings from 16 epileptic patients were analyzed. The seizures were contaminated by various artefacts such as eye movements, EMG, and patient movement. For each seizure, ICA was applied to a 30s interval beginning approximately 10s before the suspected seizure onset. The extracted independent components were divided into 2s epochs and each epoch was labelled as either EEG or non-EEG. Data from half of the patients was used as a training set to induce a Bayesian network classifier, while the remaining data was reserved for use as a validation set. The classifier used the following features: component negentropy, epoch variance, spectral entropy between 5 and 30Hz, and relative power in several frequency bands. The spatial distribution of each component was then fitted with a dipole, the position of which was also used as a feature whenever the residual variance of the fit was less than 20%. For each 2s epoch, the output of the classifier was the probability that the epoch represented EEG activity. A component was considered to be artefactual if the sum of the probabilities for its 15 epochs was less than 4. To evaluate the performance of the system, an expert neurologist reviewed the original seizure recordings in the validation set and compared them with the records reconstructed after rejection of the artefactual components. A qualitative score was given with respect to the reduction of artefactual activity and the preservation of EEG activity. Results: The validation set contained 33 seizures from 8 patients. The system correctly classified 5047/5920 (85%) EEG epochs and 5628/6950 (81%) non-EEG epochs. The reviewer noted that 23 seizures were contaminated by a significant amount of artefacts. After the automated rejection of artefactual components, the reviewer determined that the majority of artefacts were removed in 17 seizures, while 5 of them had minor improvements, and only 1 record had no reduction of artefactual activity. The system preserved all the EEG activity in 17 seizures, attenuated some minor EEG activity in 4 cases, and removed some significant ictal activity in the remaining 2 cases. The automated method was also applied to the 10 seizures that did not contain significant artefacts; in 9 cases, all the EEG activity was preserved, while the remaining case had only minor EEG attenuation. Conclusions: Temporal and spatial features of ICA components were used in a Bayesian framework to classify component epochs as either EEG or non-EEG. This allowed the proposed system to automatically eliminate a large proportion of artefactual components in ictal scalp recordings, while minimally affecting the EEG activity. (Supported by NSERC CGS-M, CIHR MOP-10189.) 1 John W. Miller, 1 Wonsuk Kim, 1 Mark Holmes, and 2 Sampsa Vanhatalo ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Clinical Neurophysiology, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland ) Rationale: We recently described techniques to perform longterm DC-coupled EEG recordings at the bedside, and have used these methods to demonstrate that inspection of infraslow (<0.5 Hz) activity can correctly lateralize temporal lobe seizures (Vanhatalo et al, Neurology.60:1098, 2003). However, even high amplitude infraslow activity can sometimes be difficult to localize by simple visual inspection if there is considerable overlying faster EEG activity or obscuring slow artifact. Also, this earlier study did not investigate extratemporal seizures, which are often more difficult to localize. We address these issues with improvements in the DC-coupled EEG recording and analysis technique, and by extending our observation to seizures arising from a variety of cerebral regions. Methods: Recordings were performed on patients receiving presurgical monitoring for medically intractable localization related epilepsy with 20 seizures in 11 patients included in analysis. Recordings used a commercial system for DC-coupled recording, with sintered Ag/AgCl electrodes in a standard array defined by the 10:10 system, with additional anterior temporal electrodes, as well as subtemporal chains. Afterwards, ictal events were exported to an EEG analysis software package (BESA 5.0) to review the seizures with source montages. Recognition and localization of the infraslow signal was made easier (i) by compressing the time scale (30 to 90 seconds per screen), ii) by filtering the signal in time domain (i.e. regular high pass/low pass or band pass filtering), iii) by filtering the signal in space (e.g. with a source montage), and iv) by using a moving average to smooth the recording. The spatial filtering properties of the source montage also makes it easier to differentiate the ictal change from physiological artifacts, such as eye movements, that arise from other head regions. In addition, the time frequency characteristics of some seizures were analysed by FFT and by use of Morlet wavelets. Results: Infraslow signals were present with all focal seizures, sometimes with amplitude orders of magnitude higher than the ictal signals in the convention EEG frequency band (0.5 to 70 Hz). Analysis of these infraslow signals was a reliable localization tool. Five patients in this study received epilepsy surgery and had follow-up documenting significant seizure reduction, and analysis of infraslow signals correctly localized epileptic foci in all five, while conventional noninvasive EEG recording with visual analysis of seizures correctly localized only two. Conclusions: DC-coupled EEG recordings can give additional information that is clinically useful to noninvasively localize the epileptogenic focus. The value of this method is increased by source analysis tools that can reveal highly localized changes more clearly than direct visual inspection. (Supported by The UW Regional Epilepsy Center.) 1 Victoria L. Morgan, 2 Eliane Kobayashi, 2 Andrew Bagshaw, 2 Colin Hawco, 3 Bassel Abou-Khalil, 2 Francois Dubeau, and 2 Jean Gotman ( 1 Radiology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ; 2 Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, Canada ; and 3 Neurology, Vanderbilt Unversity, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Simultaneous fMRI and EEG may localize the generators of interictal spikes recorded on scalp EEG. Temporal clustering analysis (TCA) is a method to analyze fMRI images independently of EEG information. TCA seeks to identify resting state activations related to the epileptogenic zone. The objective of this study was to compare the results of these two analyses in a series of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Methods: BOLD fMRI images were acquired in 22 TLE patients on a 1.5T MRI scanner with simultaneous continuous EEG in two-hour sessions at the MNI (64 ?64 ?25, 5mm ? 5mm ? 5mm, TR = 3sec, 120 volumes per series, 8?10 series per patient). For EEG-BOLD analysis, EEGs were processed offline and spikes were identified in the filtered EEG for event-related analysis. For the TCA-BOLD analysis, only the first three series were used. Data were analyzed by previously published TCA methods in which a histogram is created indicating the number of voxels that reach at least 80% of their maximum at each time point. Activated regions were determined by using a fixed-effects analysis of the three series. The concordance of the temporal lobe activation identified by the two methods and the temporal lobe spikes were assessed. Patients were divided into those with unilateral and those with bilateral independent temporal lobe spikes on EEG. One patient's fMRI was not analyzed due to excess motion. Results: Fourteen patients had unilateral spikes on EEG: 12/14 had TCA-BOLD temporal activation (6 were ipsilateral to the EEG spikes, and 2 had bilateral activation with predominance ipsilateral to the spikes) and 9/14 showed EEG-BOLD activation (2 were ipsilateral to the EEG spikes, 5 had bilateral activation with predominance ipsilateral to the spikes, one had bilateral activation with no side predominance). Seven patients had bilateral independent temporal spikes on EEG: all patients showed TCA-BOLD activation in the temporal lobes, but it was bilateral (concordant with the EEG) in 3; 4/7 patients showed EEG-BOLD temporal lobe activation, bilateral in 3. Overall, we observed an agreement between both methods in 7/11 patients. Conclusions: Activations in the temporal lobes were detected in 90% of patients using TCA-BOLD and in 68% using EEG-BOLD. TCA, which has the advantage of not using the information from the EEG, was concordant with EEG-BOLD analysis in 64% of those who showed activations, and disclosed responses not present in the former one in 5. TCA-BOLD could lateralize the underlying structural MRI lesion in 52% of the patients, similar to that observed with EEG-BOLD analysis (48%). More development is required for both methods. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Preston Robb MNI fellowship, and Savoy Foundation for Epilepsy.) 1 Amit Mukherjee, 2 Pradeep Modur, and 1 Nicolaos Karayiannis ( 1 Electrical  and 2 Neurology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: We describe a novel method for detection of seizure onset using a quantum neural network (QNN) that was progressively trained by quantitative features (in both the time and frequency domains) extracted from intracranial EEG (iEEG) signals. QNNs are particularly helpful in the classification of uncertain data without any restricting assumptions. [Purushothaman and Karayiannis, IEEE Trans Neural Networks 1997; 8:679?693]. Methods: Raw iEEG data (subdural and depth recordings) from 4 subjects, sampled at 1000 Hz, were analyzed. Bandpass was set from 1.6 to 300 Hz. Seizure onset was marked at the time of earliest change in EEG. The EEG segment, 10 sec before and after seizure onset, was divided into onset epochs (OE), each of 2 sec length, with 50% overlap between consecutive epochs. Background epoch (BE) was defined as the average of 30-sec EEG during the interictal period, preceding the OE by at least 2 min. The signal was decomposed using a Daub-2 wavelet and scales 2 to 6 (corresponding to frequency bins 250?125, 125?63, 63?32, 32?16, 16?8 and 8?4 Hz respectively) were used for feature analysis. Two parameters were computed for each scale: relative energy (ratio of the energy in a given scale in the OE to the energy of the same scale in the BE); average of the distribution tail (ratio of the average of the top 80th percentile squared coefficient to the average of the squared coefficient for a given scale). In addition to this average peak-to-peak amplitude and curve length (measure relating to the fractal dimension) of the OE are also computed and used as features. QNN was initially trained using seizure onset patterns from multiple subjects. With each subsequent seizure, the QNN was progressively re-trained by populating the training with 50% of the epochs belonging to the last seizure, 25% belonging to the previous to last seizure and 25% from a bank containing a variety of patterns from multiple subjects. Decision-making was based on the inherent ability of the QNN to identify and quantify uncertainty, represented by its output values between 0 (non-seizure) and 1 (seizure), in conjuction with a spatio-temporal rule. Thus, seizure onset was reported when the activity was observed in at least 2 adjacent channels and the activity was sustained for at least 6 sec (with QNN output value >0.65). If a channel had reported seizure in the past, its membership threshold was reduced to 0.4 and the spatio-temporal rule was applied. The QNN classifier was tested on 8 seizures from 2 subjects (each with 4 seizures). Results: All the seizure onsets (100%) were detected using the above method. There were only a few false detections. Conclusions: Progressively trained QNNs appear to be promising in detection of intracranial seizure onset. Further investigation will focus on detection of a wider variety of seizure onset patterns in multiple subjects and different decision-making strategies. 1 Ayako Ochi, 1 Hiroshi Otsubo, 1 Ryoichi Iwata, 1 Takanori Funaki, 1 Tomoyuki Akiyama, 1 Rohit Sharma, 1 Shelly K. Weiss, 1 Elizabeth Donner, 1 Irene Elliott, 2 James T. Rutka, and 1 O. Carter Snead III ( 1 Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ; and 2 Neurosurgery, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: High frequency oscillations (HFOs) in the frequency range of 80 Hz and higher has been investigated from ictal subdural EEG data in patients with intractable localization-related epilepsy. Multiple band frequency analysis (MBFA) provides high resolution of frequency changes and time courses in HFOs. We studied ictal HFOs from extraoperative video subdural EEG monitoring (SDEEG) using MBFA to characterize patterns of HFOs in children with intractable neocortical epilepsy. Methods: We retrospectively studied 8 children (3 girls and 5 boys; mean age, 14 years; range, 8 to 17 years) who presented with intractable neocortical epilepsy and underwent SDEEG consisting of 48 to 116 contacts (AD-TECH Medical instrument corporation, Racine, WI, USA). We recorded SDEEG for 48 to 144 hours with 1,000 Hz sampling rate (HARMONY 5.4, Stellate, Montreal, PQ, Canada). We analyzed 4 to 11 seizures by selecting SDEEG data epochs of 10 to 50 seconds including 5 seconds before the ictal EEG onset. We used MBFA using the software program Short Spectrum Eye (Gram, Saitama, Japan) for frequency and distribution analyses of HFOs. The power spectrograms of frequency bands between 5 Hz to 300 Hz were calculated with a frequency resolution of 2 Hz and a temporal resolution of 25 ms. We arranged all power spectrograms in the same order as subdural grid electrodes and evaluated the distribution of HFOs. Results: Seven of 8 patients presented with regionally predominant ictal HFO changes (mean, 23 electrodes). We found two patterns of HFOs consisting of existence or absence of sustained narrow band of HFOs. Four of 7 patients had initial wide range of HFOs (up to 115 Hz) lasting 2 to 5 seconds before the clinical seizure onset, followed by a sustained narrow band of HFOs (mean, 101 Hz) during ictal symptom of partial seizures. The seizures in these 4 patients evolved into secondary generalization. The other three patients had wide range of HFOs (up to 214 Hz) before and after the clinical onset without following sustained narrow band of HFOs. They presented with brief partial seizures in cluster in one patient, epileptic spasms in 2, but they did not evolved into secondarily generalized seizures. The cortical resection areas in 7 patients included the region of predominant HFOs (mean maximum frequency, 138 Hz). They achieved good postsurgical outcomes. The remaining one patient had no regionally predominant ictal HFO changes. This patient has residual partial seizures after frontal cortical excision. Conclusions: MBFA characterized 2 patterns of ictal HFO changes between seizures with and without secondarily generalized in pediatric neocortical epilepsy. The regionally predominant ictal HFOs represented the ictal onset and ictal symptomatogenic zones. 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Florian Mormann, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Dept. of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: Patients suffering from intractable focal epilepsy may benefit from neurosurgical resection of the epileptic focus provided it can be identified via electroencephalographic recording of the seizure onset. A question of interest is whether the focus can be reliably identified from interictal recordings, i.e. without the necessity of observing seizures. Measurements of the synchronization between different EEG channels have been found to be promising for this purpose. Up to now, a number of measures for synchronization have been proposed based on different approaches. In this study a comparison between different linear and nonlinear synchronization measures was performed with respect to two aspects: 1. general performance of the measures in terms of their ability to discriminate the ipsi- from the contralateral hemisphere, 2. comparison of different measures to investigate whether the different approaches render complementary or redundant information. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, each equipped with 10 recording contacts and implanted stereotactically along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampal formation. The total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Several measures of synchronization were calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique, and then averaged over time. For each of the measures the average spatial synchronization in each hemisphere was calculated. A detection of the focal hemisphere was carried out for all measures and patients based on the assumption of a higher average synchronization in the focal hemisphere. True and false lateralizations were compared for different measures. Results: Correct lateralization based on higher synchronization of the focal hemisphere was found to be statistically significant for all measures investigated, although actual performance differed among the investigated measures. False lateralizations for different measures ranged between 6 and 8 out of 30. A comparison of correct and false lateralizations showed a strong similarities between measures. Conclusions: The focal hemisphere in an epileptic brain is characterized by a pathological increase in synchronization. The different measures investigated in this study appear to be sensitive to this increased synchronization. Lateralization analysis using synchronization measures could render additional diagnostic information, although the false lateralizations found in this study could limit its clinical applicability. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1 Houman Khosravani, 2 Robert Pinnegar, 2 Ross Mitchell, and 1 Paolo Federico ( 1 Department of Radiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Univeristy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Visualization of time-frequency changes in EEG has traditionally been visualized using Fourier-based techniques (i.e. Short Time Fourier Transform, STFT). This approach is limited given its fixed-length analysis window and the non-stationary nature of EEG signals. The S Transform is a Fourier-based multi-resolution transform that has a variable length analysis window, thus circumventing the shortcomings of the STFT. In the present study, we introduce a novel application of the S Transform for visualization of normal and epileptiform EEG phenomena in humans. Methods: Selected recordings from five normal subjects and five patients with either focal or generalized epileptiform discharges were used. We identified a single channel that had a clear example of an electrographic feature of interest (e.g. alpha, mu, sleep spindles, eye blink, spike and wave, sharp wave) and applied the S Transform to it. Results: The S Transform provided clear visualization of the frequency components, in time, of the electrographic events. Some of the spectral attributes of these events were not immediately apparent on conventional review of the EEG. Conclusions: The application of the S Transform to EEG is novel and can potentially be a useful tool for visualizing clinically relevant features in EEG. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research.) 1 Catherine Schevon, 2 Joshua Cappell, 3 Werner Doyle, 3 Howard Weiner, 2 Robert Goodman, 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, and 2 Ronald Emerson ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurological Institute, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The presence of localized synchronization of neuronal activity in epilepsy has been well documented in microelectrode and clinical intracranial EEG (ICEEG) recordings. An intriguing hypothesis about the development of epilepsy is that a cortical region, when potentiated by repeated seizures, becomes chronically biased, leading to hypersynchrony. Thus, brain regions most involved in epileptogenesis are marked by chronic local hypersynchrony (LH). In this study, we discuss and illustrate the use of the mean phase synchrony measure to detect and map patterns of locally hypersynchronous neuronal activity in long term ICEEG recordings obtained during the epilepsy presurgical evaluation. Methods: Seven patients with different epilepsy syndromes were studied. Three 5 minute interictal samples from different monitoring days were tested in each case. Two seizures from each patient were studied, with 30 second samples taken from the preictal, ictal, and postictal periods. Interelectrode synchrony was measured using the mean phase coherence algorithm, which calculates the degree of phase locking independent of amplitude. Pairwise synchrony over one-second epochs was calculated for all adjacent channels of a subdural grid located over or near the clinically determined seizure onset zone. LH regions were defined as a set of contiguous channel pairs with average synchrony greater than one standard deviation above the mean for the entire grid. Results: Chronic LH regions were found in all seven patients, with these characteristics: (1) LH persisted over long recording periods and was state-independent. (2) Each patient had a unique pattern of LH regions with different anatomical distributions. (3) In each case, an LH area was associated with the clinically identified the seizure onset zone. (4) In peri-ictal recordings, there was a relative focal desynchronization preictally, a prominent finding in two patients but present to some degree in all seven, and enhanced hypersynchrony postictally. Conclusions: These findings suggest that local hypersynchrony in the EEG is related to abnormalities that underly partial epilepsy. This identification may prove useful in several areas. First, clinical EEG interpretation may be enhanced by using synchrony measurements to help define epileptogenic networks. Second, the described properties may be investigated to shed light on epileptogenic mechanisms. Third, knowledge of network structure and function may lead to improved techniques for disrupting the network to prevent seizures through resection, on-site neurostimulation, or local drug delivery. Fourth, these observations may lead to improved techniques for automated seizure prediction and detection. FACES 1,7 Deng-Shan Shiau, 2,7 Chang-Chia Liu, 2,7 Wichai Suharitdamrong, 2 Panos M. Pardalos, 1,3?5 Paul R. Carney, and 1,3?7 J. Chris Sackellares ( 1 Neuroscience, University of Florida ; 2 Industrial and Systems Engineering ; 3 Pediatrics ; 4 Biomedical Engineering ; 5 Neurology ; 6 Psychiatry, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 7 Malcolm Randall VA Medical Center, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Rapid identification of patients with independent bitemporal seizure onset zones could greatly reduce presurgical evaluation costs. We describe a novel method to identify patients with independent bilateral seizure foci based on a nonlinear characteristic of EEG signals. Signal nonlinear characteristic is quantified by the statistical difference of Short-Term Maximum Lyapunov Exponent (STLmax) values estimated from the original EEG signals and its surrogate dataset. Methods: Eight adults with temporal lobe epilepsy (5 with unilateral temporal onsets and 3 with independent bilateral onsets) were included in this study. Long-term EEG recordings from bilaterally placed depth and subdural electrodes (left and right temporal depth, subtemporal and orbitofrontal) were analyzed. Initial analyses involved the following steps: (1) each EEG signal was divided into 10.24 sec epochs and 10 surrogate EEG time series were generated, (2) STLmax values were estimated for each epoch of the original EEG signal and each of the 10 surrogate EEG signals, (3) T-index, derived from pair-T statistics, was calculated to measure the statistical difference in STLmax values between the original signal and mean values estimated from the 10 surrogate EEGs. Nested two-way ANOVA was applied to test the significance of the brain region effect (patients were random blocks; seizures were nested within patient). Significance level = 0.05 was applied for rejection of the null hypothesis. Results: For each of the five patients with unilateral seizure onset, statistical test revealed that the nonlinear characteristics of EEG signals derived from mesial temporal electrodes within the seizure onset zone are significantly different from those from other areas (p < 0.01). In contrast, the nonlinear characteristics of EEG are not different (p > 0.05) among recording areas in all three patients who experienced bilateral seizure onsets. These differences were present throughout the recording, even before the first seizure was recorded. Conclusions: The results of this study suggest that it may be possible to efficiently and quantitatively determine whether a patient is likely to have unilateral temporal or independent bitemporal seizure onsets, based on analysis of the nonlinear characteristics of the EEG signal. In these patients, the findings were robust and persistent. Further studies in a large sample of patients will be required to determine whether or not this approach will have utility in selecting candidates for resective surgery. (Supported by NIH Grant RO1EB002089 and Department of Veterans Affairs.) 1 Steven Schachter, 2 Ali Shoeb, 3 Blaise Bourgeois, 4 S. Ted Treves, and 2 John Guttag ( 1 Departments of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA ; 2 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, MA ; 3 Departments of Neurology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA ; and 4 Nuclear Medicine, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA ) Rationale: The accurate detection of electrographic seizure onsets with an ambulatory system could potentially be used to trigger an acute intervention to limit seizure progression/duration, and could also serve to notify a caregiver or disable harmful elements in the patient's environment (eg, a gas stove that is lit). Methods: We implemented a patient-specific seizure detection algorithm (Shoeb A, et al. Epilepsy Behav 2004; 5:483?498) on a small digital signal processor (DSP; TM320C6711, Texas Instruments), and streamed previously recorded ambulatory EEGs from two patients to the DSP at a rate of 200 samples/sec per channel. For each EEG, we noted the sensitivity and specificity of seizure detections, and the latency with which the algorithm declared seizure onset following the initial electroencephalographic changes. Results: The algorithm trained on seizure-free EEG epochs and 7 electrographic seizures uniformly sampled over the duration of the two EEG studies. The figure shows the average latency for detection of seizure onsets once the electroencephalographic changes began. The algorithm detected 70/72 seizure onsets (30/31 for patient #1, and 41/42 for patient #2), and declared 2 false detections (0 for patient #1, and 2 for patient #2) in 5.5 hours (2 hours for patient #1, 3.5 hours for patient #2) of ambulatory EEG epochs uniformly sampled over a 36-hour period (20 hours for patient #1, and 16 hours for patient #2). The figure also compares how soon following electrographic seizure onset patient #1 became symptomatic (indicated by pressing the event button). Patient #2 was unaware of his seizures and therefore did not press the event button. Conclusions: These preliminary results demonstrate the high sensitivity and specificity of seizure onset detections using our algorithm and the feasibility of detecting seizures in the ambulatory setting within seconds of electrographic seizure onset and before symptoms occur. Further evaluation of our detection methodology on pre-recorded as well as on-line ambulatory EEG studies is underway. (Supported by Center for Integration of Medicine and Innovative Technology (CIMIT); MIT Project Oxygen Partnership.) 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Pierre LeVan, 1 François Dubeau, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute,McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: High frequency activity in the intracerebral EEG of epileptic patients has been described in recent studies using microelectrodes. We report changes in high frequency activity immediately following epileptic spikes in intracerebral recordings obtained from macroelectrodes. Methods: Eight patients with intractable epilepsy were evaluated; 4 had mesial temporal epilepsy (MT) and 4 neocortical epilepsy (N). EEGs from stereotaxically placed depth electrodes were filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz. Spikes were classified according to their localization and morphology, with 60 spikes in each type. Segments of 256ms were selected immediately following each spike (post-spike), and 2s before each spike (baseline). Log-spectral power was estimated in 4 frequency bands: slow (0?40Hz), gamma (40?100Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), and very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz). Changes between post-spike periods and baselines were assessed for each channel (Wilcoxon test, p < 0.01). Results: 25 types of spike were identified (16 MT, 9 N). Changes were seen in 14 types of spike in HF (10 MT, 4 N) and in 11 types in VHF (8 MT, 3 N). Changes in VHF were always associated with changes in HF. In 9 types of spike (7 MT, 2 N), there was an increase in slow activity corresponding to a visible slow wave, but also a decrease in fast activity. These changes occurred in the hippocampus and neocortex. In 6 types of spike (5 MT, 1 N), there was an increase in slow activity despite the absence of a visible slow wave and an increase in fast activity. These changes occurred mostly in the amygdala, even though the spike was minimal in that area. The same pattern was observed in the hippocampus in two types of spikes in one patient. Finally, there was one type of spike with a decrease in fast activity without changes in slow activity. Overall, changes in VHF activity were spatially more restricted than changes in HF and gamma bands. Conclusions: A significant proportion of spikes were followed by changes in high frequency activity, more often in mesial temporal than neocortical spikes. Slow waves following spikes were generally associated with a decrease in HF and VHF compared to baseline. Changes in high frequency were clearest in channels where the spikes were most prominent, while changes at lower frequencies were more widespread. In many instances, there was an increase in high frequencies in the amygdala, even though the spike was not prominent in this region. This study demonstrates that high frequency activity can be recorded with macroelectrodes and has significant changes in epileptic discharges. The reduction in HF and VHF following spikes may reflect a profound inhibition that is more marked in the region of spike generation. The amygdala behaves differently from the hippocampus and neocortex, not showing this reduction in fast activity. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research Department of Education of Basque Government.) 1 Anneleen Vergult, 1 Wim De Clercq, 1 Bart Vanrumste, 1 Sabine Van Huffel, 2 Johan Van Hees, 2 André Palmini, and 2 Wim Van Paesschen ( 1 Electrical Engineering, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ; and 2 Neurology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to develop and investigate the performance of automated muscle artifact removal from ictal electroencephalograms (EEG) based on canonical correlation analysis (CCA). Methods: CCA separated a 10s EEG epoch in a set of components (or sources) with a decreasing autocorrelation index (AI). It has been noticed that muscle artifact components have a lower AI than genuine EEG components. A neurologist removed muscle artifact from 317 epochs of ictal EEG of 40 patients by gradually removing the components starting from the one with the lowest AI. The neurologist determined subjectively the separation point where as much muscle activity was removed as possible, without affecting the brain activity significantly. This yielded a gold standard binary classification of the CCA components into muscle artifact components and EEG components. Next a fully automated classification of each CCA component was performed based on the ratio of spectral energy of the frequency band 25?50Hz to the band 10?15Hz. It is anticipated a large value of this feature will be observed when muscle activity is present in a component. The optimal feature threshold was selected by maximally remaining EEG components and maximally suppressing muscle artifact components. Results: The developed automated method was able to remain on average 99±0.3% of the EEG component energy, while removing on average 71±33% of the muscle artifact component energy. Conclusions: An automated muscle artifact removal technique was presented, that could be used as pre-processing step in the early detection of ictal activity or as a filter in the visual evaluation of ictal EEG.Currently the same EEG's are being processed by other neurologists, to investigate the user dependency of the optimal separation point to obtain a more generalized gold standard which can improve the robustness of the automated muscle artifact elimination. (Supported by European network of excellence BIOPATTERN (FP6-2002-IST-508803) and Fund for Scientific Research Flanders FWO research project nr G.0360.05. Bart Vanrumste is funded by the ?Programmatorische Federale Overheidsdienst Wetenschapsbeleid? of the Belgian Government.) 1 Cesar Viteri, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Jorge Iriarte, 1 Manuel Alegre, 1 Miguel Valencia, and 1 Julio Artieda ( 1 Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, CUN, CIMA, Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain ) Rationale: Independent component analysis (ICA) is a system that differentiates components of complex signals. One of its capabilities is to study the epileptiform discharges to demonstrate similar or different origin of its components. The goal of this study was to discover how ICA analyse the discharges in the benign centrospikes, to understand better this kind of idiopathic epilepsy. Methods: We analysed 15 discharges of 3 patients with benign centrotemporal epilepsy. Their morphology was sharp wave, spike or spike-and-wave. The samples were recorded digitally with a 32-channels Lamont amplifiers and Harmonie 5.2b program. ICA was applied using the JADE algorithm implemented in a Matlab platform. The components were identified visually. The suspected components were selected and the EEG of these components by itself and together were reconstructed. The topography in each component of the discharge was compared with the original using the BESA program in the same period. Results: The spikes and waves were located in different components. Spikes were separated in one (n = 10), two (n = 4) or three (n = 1) components, with delay between their maximums of 5?10 ms. The waves were isolated in other one or two components. Their topography was centrotemporal, very similar but not identical. The lateralization of each component was variable between components of the same spike, and it could be right, left or bilateral. Each component of the spike fit very well with the EEG in the correspondent time. The topography of the components from different spikes of the same patient varied slightly in the localisation. Conclusions: ICA differentiates several components with temporal evolution in the epileptiform discharges in centrotemporal epilepsy. In most of the discharges, the spike and the wave had different components suggesting different origin. Their topography was centrotemporal, similar but variable in the lateralization and localisation. In each patient the way of analysis of the discharge was very similar but not identical. 1 Chunmao Wang, 2 Istvan Ulbert, 1 Werner K. Doyle, 1 Orrin Devinsky, 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, and 3,4 Eric Halgren ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York, NY ; 2 Institute of Psychology, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary ; 3 Massachusetts General Hospital NMR Center, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA ; and 4 INSERM, Marseille, France ) Rationale: To study spatio-temporal stages in word processing, both current source density in cortex laminars and subdural potentials were recorded. Methods: Laminar multiple microelectrodes and clinical macroelectrodes were chronically implanted in epilepsy patients undergoing subdural grid and depth implantation for seizure localization. The patients participated in several cognitive tasks during their normal alert status. Three of them were visual word recognition tasks, in which the patients were requested to decide if a word: (1) presented an animal or object longer than one foot; (2) rhymed in ?AY; ? or 3) ended in ?ED? for its past tense. Another task was auditory version of the size judgment task, in which a computer speaker instead of a monitor presented the stimuli. In all four tasks, half of the words were presented during practice stages prior to test, so repetition effect was expected. Results: Extensive overlapping responses were recorded in frontal, temporal, and occipital cortices. In visual cortex, the earliest response was peaking at ?140 ms. For auditory stimuli, the earliest auditory response was in superior temporal cortex, peaking at ?100 ms, and the largest response was in adjacent area [still in superior temporal cortex], starting from ?120 ms and peaking at ?300 ms. These responses were equivalent to new and repeated words. However, there were significant differential responses from ?500?1000 ms to new versus repeated words, for both auditory and visual stimuli, mainly in medial and ventral temporal areas. Laminar electrodes in adjacent areas measured a sink and source complex, with a greater response to new words during the same time range. Conclusions: For both micro and macro recording, word repetition does not affect the initial processing stage but decreases later activity. These differential responses appeared to represent the N4-P3b. (Supported by NS18741 and NS44623.) 1,2 Matthias Winterhalder, 1,2 Bjoern Schelter, 2 Thomas Maiwald, 2 Ariane Schad, 3 Armin Brandt, 1,2 Jens Timmer, and 1,3 Andreas Schulze-Bonhage ( 1 Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ; 2 Center for Data Analysis and Modeling, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ; and 3 Epilepsy Center, University Hospital Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ) Rationale: Reliable and early prediction of epileptic seizures would open new routes for therapeutic interventions in patients with pharmacorefractory epilepsy. As seizures are characterized by an abnormal synchronization of neurons, multivariate time series analysis techniques detecting synchronized dynamics in invasive EEG recordings of epilepsy patients are a promising approach. Here, we have investigated two synchronization measures originating from the theory of Nonlinear Dynamics with respect to their potential role for epileptic seizure prediction. Methods: Two quantities measuring phase and lag synchronization have been applied to an invasive EEG data pool of 21 patients each with 24 hours of seizure-free recordings and 2?5 pre-seizure periods. Synchronization changes have been examined in different brain structures analyzing focal electrode contacts, i.e. early involved in ictal activity, as well as extra-focal electrode contacts, i.e. not involved in ictal activity or only involved lately during seizure spread. The seizure prediction performance has been assessed by the methodology of the seizure prediction characteristic. The seizure prediction characteristic evaluates sensitivity of a prediction method with respect to its specificity and temporal aspects of a prediction. Comparing with the probability to predict seizures by chance, a test is utilized to decide about the statistical significance. Results: Compared to a random prediction, a significantly better seizure prediction performance has been shown for half of the patients. Both decreasing and increasing synchronization in the EEG dynamics could precede seizures. Regarding the topography of brain structures investigated, a statistical significant superiority of combinations between one focal and one extra-focal electrode contact could be demonstrated for the lag synchronization measure (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Preictal changes in the synchronization of the EEG dynamics may offer a chance for epileptic seizure prediction. Our study shows that the seizure prediction performance differs between patients and strongly depends on the analysis technique applied and the brain structure investigated. (Supported by German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF grant 01GQ0420) and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Ti 315/2-1).) 1 John Zempel, 2 Justin L. Vincent, 2 Linda J. Larson-Prior, and 2 Abraham Z. Snyder ( 1 Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; and 2 Radiology and NeuroImaging Laboratory, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: The ballistocardiogram (BKG) is a significant source of artifact in scalp EEG recorded in the static magnetic field characteristic of human MRI scanners. Multiple methods (averaging, ICA, adaptive filtering) have been successfully employed by others to reduce the BKG. A new method of identifying BKG is used to biologically characterize the BKG across multiple electrodes and subjects. Methods: Simultaneous EEG and fMRI recordings were made from twelve subjects. Greater than than ten hours of EEG containing BKG. EEG-fMRI was recorded in a 3 Tesla Siemens Allegra MR scanner using a Neuroscan (El Paso, TX) Synamps/2 amplifier and Maglink cap and cabling system with Scan 4.5 software. Standard 10/20 electrode positions were collected at a 20 kHz sampling rate and the gradient artifact greatly reduced with Scan 4.5 with decimation of the EEG signal to 500 Hz. 10?20 electrodes were referenced to a common electrode halfway between CZ and CPZ). Two additional processing steps were developed to reduce the BKG (Vincent, et al, Soc Neuroscience Abstracts 2005). First, a custom template based beat detector program, which identifies EKG patterns that represent single heart beats, was used to provide accurate triggering. Second, a moving general linear model was used to generate models of the BKG. The extracted BKG signal was characterized by standard averaging and forward FFT techniques. Results: The BKG waveforms recovered by the GLM technique consistently included components outlasting the mean inter-beat interval in all (12/12) subjects and all 10?20 electrodes. Thus, as the waveforms due to successive beats inconsistently overlap, simple averaging cannot adequately characterize and reduce the BKG artifact. The BKG is large at 3 T. The positive to negative peak variation in the BKG is always more than 100 microvolts, and the largest components are most frequently several hundred microvolts in size in the O1-Ref electrode. The frequency content of the BKG is complicated. In addition to the frequency of the heart rate itself, bimodal peaks at 3?5 Hz and 8?10 Hz are present in the BKG, which contaminate frequency ranges needed to recover standard EEG. When the power spectral density of each electrode is averaged across subjects, the frequency bin with peak power varies over the scalp. Conclusions: BKG recorded at 3 Tesla represents a significant electrical signal that must be successfully removed to obtain EEG that represents brain activity. In addition to removing the BKG, biological characterization of the BKG across multiple subjects allows determination of the nature and variability of this signal. BKG itself is spatially variable in size and frequency content across the scalp. These observations constrain theoretical accounts of BKG origin, which presently remain incomplete. (Supported by K12NS01690 for John Zempel and NS06833 (laboratory of Marcus Raichle).)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Feldheiser, A.
AU  - Aziz, O.
AU  - Baldini, G.
AU  - Cox, B. P. B. W.
AU  - Fearon, K. C. H.
AU  - Feldman, L. S.
AU  - Gan, T. J.
AU  - Kennedy, R. H.
AU  - Ljungqvist, O.
AU  - Lobo, D. N.
AU  - Miller, T.
AU  - Radtke, F. F.
AU  - Ruiz Garces, T.
AU  - Schricker, T.
AU  - Scott, M. J.
AU  - Thacker, J. K.
AU  - Ytrebø, L. M.
AU  - Carli, F.
TI  - Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) for gastrointestinal surgery, part 2: consensus statement for anaesthesia practice
JO  - Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica
JA  - Acta Anaesthesiol. Scand.
VL  - 60
IS  - 3
SN  - 0001-5172
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/aas.12651
DO  - doi:10.1111/aas.12651
SP  - 289
EP  - 334
PY  - 2016
AB  - Background The present interdisciplinary consensus review proposes clinical considerations and recommendations for anaesthetic practice in patients undergoing gastrointestinal surgery with an Enhanced Recovery after Surgery (ERAS) programme. Methods Studies were selected with particular attention being paid to meta-analyses, randomized controlled trials and large prospective cohort studies. For each item of the perioperative treatment pathway, available English-language literature was examined and reviewed. The group reached a consensus recommendation after critical appraisal of the literature. Results This consensus statement demonstrates that anaesthesiologists control several preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative ERAS elements. Further research is needed to verify the strength of these recommendations. Conclusions Based on the evidence available for each element of perioperative care pathways, the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS ?) Society presents a comprehensive consensus review, clinical considerations and recommendations for anaesthesia care in patients undergoing gastrointestinal surgery within an ERAS programme. This unified protocol facilitates involvement of anaesthesiologists in the implementation of the ERAS programmes and allows for comparison between centres and it eventually might facilitate the design of multi-institutional prospective and adequately powered randomized trials.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Han, C.
AU  - Wright, G.
AU  - Praseyatpo, D.
TI  - CT20P ENDOBRONCHIAL PALLIATION USING ND:YAG LASER IS ASSOCIATED WITH IMPROVED SURVIVAL WHEN COMBINED WITH MULTIMODAL ADJUVANT TREATMENTS
JO  - ANZ Journal of Surgery
VL  - 77
IS  - s1
SN  - 1445-1433
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04115_20.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04115_20.x
SP  - A12
EP  - A12
PY  - 2007
AB  - Purpose? This study aims to confirm the safety and effectiveness of Nd:YAG laser therapy in the contemporary setting and investigate the effectiveness of multi-modal therapy compared to laser alone. Methology? 153 Nd:YAG laser treatments on 110 patients between 1999 and 2004 were reviewed retrospectively. Symptom scores for dyspnoea, haemoptysis and cough before and after the procedure were compared. Survival and time to reintervention were analysed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Multimodality treatment was compared to Nd:YAG laser therapy alone to determine differences in survival and time to reintervention. P values less than 0.05 were considered significant. Results? There were no operative mortality directly caused by laser intervention, however 30 day mortality was 6.5%. Deaths were due to progression of advanced neoplastic processes rather than laser intervention, 6.5% of patients had some post-operative morbidity. After Nd:YAG laser intervention, 76% of patients reported improvement to dyspnoea, 94% for haemoptysis and 75% for cough. Median survival after Nd:YAG laser treatment was 6.64 months, 21% requiring repeated laser. Compared to Nd:YAG laser treatment alone, multimodality treatments significantly prolonged median time to reintervention by 1.7 months (p?=?0.002) and prolonged median survival by 4.9 months (p?<?0.001) in patients with NSCLC. Conclusion? Nd:YAG laser intervention is safe and effective for palliation of endobronchial malignancies. In most cases it is only required to be performed once. Multimodal treatment prolonged survival compared to Nd:YAG laser therapy alone.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rogers, Ian S.
AU  - Rinaldi, Michael J.
AU  - Humphrey, Chester B.
AU  - Boden, William E.
AU  - Dougherty, James E.
TI  - Postpartum dissection of the left main coronary artery
JO  - Clinical Cardiology
JA  - Clin Cardiol
VL  - 29
IS  - 4
SN  - 0160-9289
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/clc.4960290410
DO  - doi:10.1002/clc.4960290410
SP  - 175
EP  - 178
KW  - coronary artery dissection
KW  - postpartum
KW  - peripartum
KW  - spontaneous
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Peripartum coronary artery dissection is rare, but it is an increasingly recognized risk to women of childbearing age. Literature reviews reveal that about 80% of the population with spontaneous coronary artery dissections (SCAD) are female, and approximately 25?33% of cases occurred while the woman was pregnant or in the peripartum phase. Most cases have presented within 2 weeks of delivery. The left anterior descending is the most commonly affected vessel. The etiology is poorly understood, but many reports suggest that SCAD occurs as a result of protease release secondary to an eosinophilic vasculitis resulting in vessel lysis. Many investigators have examined the correlation between peripartum SCAD and estrogen levels; however, case studies have shown conflicting results regarding estrogen levels as the putative causative factor. Optimal treatment remains controversial. Presently, stenting appears to be best employed in the patients who have single-vessel dissection not involving the left main coronary artery (LMCA). Surgical revascularization via coronary artery bypass graft remains the optimal therapy in patients whose dissection involves the LMCA, in patients with concurrent multi-vessel dissection, and in patients with disease refractory to medical management. It is important to consider coronary artery dissection in the differential of any young woman who presents with signs or symptoms consistent with acute coronary syndrome, particularly if she is peripartum. Furthermore, once suspected, it is imperative that a definitive diagnostic study, that is, coronary angiography, be completed prior to the initiation of treatment whenever possible.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Oral and Poster Presentations
JO  - Catheterization and Cardiovascular Interventions
JA  - Cathet. Cardiovasc. Intervent.
VL  - 79
IS  - S1
SN  - 1522-1946
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ccd.24386
DO  - doi:10.1002/ccd.24386
SP  - S1
EP  - S110
PY  - 2012
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Goffinet, F.
AU  - Aboulker, D.
AU  - Subtil, D.
AU  - Uzan
AU  - Bréart, G.
AU  - Uzan, S.
TI  - WS12-02Systematic screening with a uterine Doppler in low-risk pregnant women followed by low-dose aspirin in cases with abnormal results: results of the two French multicenter randomised controlled trial
JO  - Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology
VL  - 16
IS  - s1
SN  - 0960-7692
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-69.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-69.x
SP  - 21
EP  - 21
PY  - 2000
AB  - Objectives Two large multicenter randomised trials were performed in France to assess whether systematic screening with an artery uteroplacental Doppler (AUD) in low-risk pregnant women followed by the prescription of low-dose aspirin in cases with abnormal results reduced the incidence of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and of preeclampsia. Study design and population The first trial ?Seine Saint-Denis? (SSD) trial included 3317 low-risk pregnant women (multi and primigravidae) in 17 French maternity Hospitals and the second ?Erasme? trial included 1869 primigravidae in 12 centres. In the Doppler group, the AUD was performed between 20 and 24?weeks, and women with abnormal results received 100?mg of aspirin daily until the 35th week. Results In the Doppler group, 232 patients (15.7%) had an abnormal result in the SSD trial and 20% in the ERASME trial. The predictive value of the AUD was comparable to that reported in the studies of low-risk populations, but with a low sensitivity. Finally, IUGR, whether defined by the third or tenth percentile, and preeclampsia did not differ significantly between the treatment groups in both trials. Conclusions There is no proof justifying the recommendation of a systematic AUD in a low-risk population, even if abnormal results are followed by aspirin treatment and increase in prenatal surveillance. Future studies must assess predictive tests that can be performed early in pregnancy and can identify populations at very high risk of preeclampsia and IUGR. Only when all of these conditions are fulfilled can aspirin prove its efficacy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Plenary II: Surgical Controversies 9:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 49
IS  - s7
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
SP  - 497
EP  - 497
PY  - 2008
AB  - Robert E. Gross*, David W. Loring?, John T. Langfitt?, George A. Ojemann?, André Olivier? and Christoph Helmstaedter??*Department of Neurosurgery, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA; ?McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL; ?Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY; ?Department of Neurosurgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; ?Division of Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada and ?Bereich Neuropsychologie, Universitätsklinik für Epileptologie, Bonn, Germany Summary: The surgical treatment of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) by amygdalo-hippocampectomy (AH) has a high likelihood of yielding a seizure-free outcome and associated improvement in quality-of-life. Nevertheless, there are several important areas of controversy with regard to the surgical approach, differences of which may impact the rate of success and the incidence of adverse effects. Cognitive sequelae of temporal lobe surgery may result from (1) resection or transgression of the lateral (neocortical) temporal lobe or the temporal stem, which may lead to impairment in learning, and/or (2) resection of mesial structures, which may lead to decline in material-specific memory. The recent multi-center clinical trial analyzing the predictors of post-surgical quality-of-life will be discussed, including the finding that improvement depends on seizure-freedom irrespective of the occurrence of verbal memory decline. Nevertheless, it is incumbent on surgeons to minimize the occurrence of these cognitive sequelae while maximizing the possibility of seizure-freedom. Several approaches to gain access to the mesial structures will be compared with regard to cognitive outcome, including anterior temporal lobectomy (standard vs. tailored), trans-cortical selective AH and trans-sylvian selective AH, which differ in terms of their disruption of the temporal neocortex and temporal stem. Alternative approaches to the mesial resection will be compared with regard to seizure-free rates and the incidence of post-surgical decline in memory, including tailoring the hippocampal resection to the presence of inter-ictal epileptic spikes vs. performing a standardized resection, and the influence of the amount of hippocampal tissue resected. Open discussion of recent results addressing these important issues will hopefully either propel the field towards consensus, or highlight the need for further randomized clinical trials to improve patient outcome following amygdalo-hippocampectomy for MTLE.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Van Steenkiste, G.
AU  - De Clercq, D.
AU  - Vera, L.
AU  - Decloedt, A.
AU  - van Loon, G.
TI  - Sustained atrial tachycardia in horses and treatment by transvenous electrical cardioversion
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 51
IS  - 5
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.13073
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.13073
SP  - 634
EP  - 640
KW  - horse
KW  - atrial flutter
KW  - focal atrial tachycardia
KW  - macroreentrant atrial tachycardia
KW  - supraventricular tachyarrhythmia
KW  - arrhythmia
KW  - electrophysiology
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary Background Atrial tachycardia including focal atrial tachycardia and macroreentrant atrial tachycardia (atrial flutter), are occasionally found in horses. Diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of these arrhythmias has been inadequately described. Objectives To describe the findings on surface electrocardiography (ECG), intra-atrial electrogram recording and tissue Doppler imaging (TDI), the response to treatment by transvenous electrical cardioversion (TVEC), and TDI follow-up, of sustained atrial tachycardia in horses. Study design Case series. Methods Records from horses with sustained atrial tachycardia treated by biphasic TVEC at Ghent University were reviewed. Horses with atrial fibrillation were not included. Results Seven horses with sustained atrial tachycardia were treated with TVEC. In six cases an exercise ECG was available and in 4 a 12-lead ECG had been recorded. The mean bias between atrial cycle length measured from a right atrial intra-atrial electrogram and from TDI ranged between ?2 and 3 ms depending on the sampled region. All seven cases converted to sinus rhythm during the first TVEC procedure. TDI showed atrial contractile function recovery similar to cases that were treated for atrial fibrillation. One case developed atrial fibrillation 1 day after TVEC treatment, another case showed recurrence 8 years post conversion. The other five cases were still in sinus rhythm at 9 months ? 5 years after TVEC. Main limitations Due to the small number of patients, data on recurrence and follow-up of atrial recovery should be interpreted with caution. Since no invasive electrophysiology studies were performed, differentiation between focal atrial tachycardia and atrial flutter remains speculative. Conclusions Treatment of focal atrial tachycardia or atrial flutter by TVEC has a very high success rate. Tissue Doppler imaging allows noninvasive measurement of atrial cycle length and suggests reduced atrial function after cardioversion. Long-term prognosis after cardioversion seemed similar compared to horses with atrial fibrillation, although early recurrence (<24 h) occurred in one horse.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: Clinical EEG
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_15.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_15.x
SP  - 131
EP  - 142
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Imran I. Ali, 1 Nabeel A. Herial, 1 Noor A. Pirzada, 1 Neeraj Kaplish, and 1 L. John Greenfield ( 1 Neurology, Medical University of Ohio, Toledo, OH ) Rationale: Status epilepticus (SE) from all causes is associated with a 25?30% mortality rate. In patients with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) and SE, the mortality is even higher. Effect of non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) in this group have not been described previously. We, therefore, wanted to review the EEG features of SE in patients with HIE to correlate them with the clinical findings and also identify patients in which intervention may be associated with a better prognosis. Methods: The EEG database at Medical University of Ohio from 1999?2004 was reviewed. Patients with HIE and fulfilling the EEG criteria for status epilepticus were identified. EEG were reviewed by two Board Certified Electroencephalographers and charts were reviewed for clinical and EEG information. IRB approval was obtained for this study. Results: Twelve patients were identified who fulfilled the criteria for for HIE and NCSE. There were six men and six women. Mean age was 60.5 years (range 38?85). Six patients had isolated cardiac arrest, two had purely respiratory arrest while four had simulatneous cardiorespiratory arrest. Six patients were comatose with no clinical evidence of seizures (50%), three patients (25%) had intermittent myoclonus, while two patients (16%) had focal clonic activity noted initially. One additional patient had generalized tonic clonic seizure that was followed by coma and EEG evidence of NCSE. Irregular bifrontal generalized spike and wave discharges were seen in six patients (50%), generalized periodic epileptiform discharges with evolving pattern were seen in five patients (42%), and focal rhythmic spike and wave activity was seen in one patient (8%). Severe background suppression was noted in all patients. Three patients had intermittent theta activity but the background was unreactive. In nine patients NCSE resolved with treatment but in all twelve patients this did not result in improvement of the background EEG activity. All twelve patients died within 30 days of onset of NCSE. Conclusions: EEG features of non-convulsive status epilepticus are variable but most patients had generalized periodic epileptiform discharges with evolving frontal discharges or rhythmic frontal spike and wave activity. The EEG pattern did not influence outcome or correlate with specific clinical features. In our series non-convulsive status epilepticus in patients with hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy was associated with a 100% mortality. Although status epilepticus resolved in 66% of the patients with aggressive treatment, this did not result in improved outcome. 1 Noel Baker, and 1 Paul C. Van Ness ( 1 Neurolgy, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: Subclinical Rhythmic Epileptiform Discharge of Adults (SREDA) is a non-ictal electrographic variant most frequently characterised as a 5?7 Hz rhythm of abrupt onset and termination and located maximally in the temporoparietoocipital regions. It differs from an ictal pattern in a lack of evolution in frequency, distribution and morphology, and in the subjects' lack of clinical change during the duration of the discharge.(1) SREDA has most often been described in adults in the 4th to the 9th decades, but Najarajan et al have described this pattern in 2 young girls.(2,3) We report its occurrence in a young man whose SREDA had characteristics described as rare in adults. Methods: In the pediatric division of our institution, approximately 2200?2500 routine EEGs and 150?200 prolonged video-EEG studies are performed each year. Since 2001, only one case of SREDA in a pediatric patient was seen in our institution. Results: Case Report: The patient initially presented at the age of 14 for staring spells. His neurologic examination and IQ were normal. An intial routine and video EEG were interpreted as showing non-convulsive status, despite his ability to interact during the discharges. He was placed on valproate with no clinical change. A second video EEG 3 years later showed bursts of 5?6 Hz discharges occaisionally slowing to 1?2 Hz which were consistently maximal in the frontal regions and at the vertex, bilaterally synchronous in onset, and persisting in light sleep. The bursts lasted up to 5 minutes in duration and ended abruptly with re-emergence a normal background, and comprised >50% of the record during the 3 days of monitoring. The SREDA persisted unchanged during activation procedures, eye opening and closing, and repetition of syllables such as ?lilt.? During the bursts, he repeatedly demonstrated his ability to follow commands, answer questions, play video games, and complete neuropsychologic testing. Conclusions: SREDA is rare EEG pattern occurring in approximately 1/2500 adult recordings and documented in patients with such non-epileptiform complaints as headaches, dizziness, and depression, as well as seizures. Atypical SREDA variants charcterised as frontally predominant, or occurring as delta frequencies, or having a waxing and waning pattern have also been described, comparable to what we saw in our patient. (2) While our experience at our institution confirms that of Nagarajan et all that SREDA is not seen exclusively in adults, it also suggests that SREDA is more rare in pediatric patients. 1 Westmoreland B. and Klass D. A Distinctive Rhythmic EEG Discharge of Adults. Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 1981, 51:186?191. 2 Westmoreland B. and Klass D. Unusual variants of subclinical rhythmic electrographic discharge of adults (SREDA). Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 1991, 102:1?4. 3 Nagarajan L. et al Subclinical Rhythmic EEG Discharge of Adults: SREDA in Two Children. Pediatric Neurology, 2001; 24:313?316. 1 Ramon E. Bautista, 2 Steven Godwin, and 2 David Caro ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ; and 2 Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: Patients frequently present to the emergency room (ER) with mental status changes but without any immediately apparent cause. The EEG is underutilized in this population, partly due to the time and preparation required to perform it, possibly causing a delay in diagnosis. In this study, we determined if an abbreviated EEG (AEEG) performed immediately upon patient arrival to the ER could provide useful information. We specifically wanted to know if AEEGs can be useful in diagnosing non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE). Methods: We performed a 5-minute AEEG using a preformed electrode placement system on 25 consecutive patients who presented to the ER with mental status changes but without any immediately apparent cause as determined by ER physicians. The AEEGs were performed almost immediately after the patient arrived in the ER without the benefit of a neurologic consultation. The AEEGs were only reviewed after patient discharge and did not impact patient care. We also conducted a retrospective chart review of all enrolled patients after discharge to determine the discharge diagnosis. We then performed a Fisher exact test to determine if the cause of mental status changes could be distinguished by AEEG findings. Results: Of 25 patients entered into the study, two had a discharge diagnosis of new onset NCSE. These patients had AEEG findings consistent with electrographic seizure activity. Seven patients were later diagnosed to have a metabolic/infectious encephalopathy. The AEEGs in four of these patients showed diffuse slowing and one had interictal epileptiform activity. Eight patients were seen due to post-ictal confusion and seven of them had AEEGs that showed diffuse slowing. Two patient were diagnosed with syncope and both had normal AEEGs. One patient had a left MCA-CVA and the AEEG showed diffuse slowing that was accentuated over the left hemisphere. One patient was diagnosed with dementia and had a normal AEEG. The diagnoses in four patients were uncertain even at the time of discharge. Three of these patients had a normal AEEG while one AEEG was uninterpretable due to movement artifact. Aside from those who were diagnosed to have NCSE, no other patient had an AEEG showing electrographic seizure activity. Using Fisher's exact test, mental status changes due to NCSE could be distinguished by the presence of electrographic seizure activity on AEEG. Conclusions: Our study suggests that even an abbreviated EEG performed early during the ER visit can diagnose NCSE in patients who present with mental status changes of unknown cause. Future studies with larger sample sizes would help definitively establish the utility of this technique. (Supported by University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville Dean's Fund Research Awards for Faculty.) 1 Scott Bearden, 1,2 Basim Uthman, and 2 Stephan Eisenschenk ( 1 Neurology, North Florida/South Georgia Veterans Health System, Gainesville, FL ; and 2 Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) is most often defined as an epileptic state, without convulsive motor activity, lasting at least 30 minutes with associated ictal EEG activity. A clinically evident, sustained change from baseline behavior or mental status should also occur unless the patient is comatose or in simple partial NCSE. Diagnostic challenges are most evident in NCSE patients presenting with stupor or coma since no or only little behavioral changes are clearly apparent. Identifying EEG patterns that are most probably ictal representations of NCSE could be most valuable in early diagnosis and treatment of NCSE. Delay to diagnosis of adult NCSE may increase morbidity and mortality. Methods: A thorough review of the literature from 1972 to 2004 identified 72 publications involving NCSE in adults. Clinical and EEG presentations of reported cases were analyzed and supplemented with examples from our clinical practice. Results: We devised a classification scheme summarizing clinical presentations and ictal EEG patterns of NCSE. Five clinical categories combined with common ictal EEG signatures were identified and referenced in five charts integrating the type of NCSE, common patient symptomatology, ictal EEG, interictal EEG, and prognostic information. Two flow charts (combining clinical presentation and EEG) were developed to aid in classification and provide prognostic information for most adult patients in NCSE whose mental state ranges from mild confusion to stupor and for patients who are comatose. The use of benzodiazepines as a diagnostic aide during EEG was scrutinized. Conclusions: Classification of prolonged ictal confusion, stupor and coma utilizing clinical and EEG presentations into a simple logical framework is possible and may contribute to early diagnosis and timely treatment of NCSE. High awareness of NCSE as a clinical entity presenting as change in mental status is critical for early diagnosis and intervention. 1 Rachel Berman, 2 Michiro Negishi, 2 R. Todd Constable, 3,4 Edward J. Novotny, 3 Susan Levy, and 4,5 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 2 Diagnostic Radiology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; and 5 Neurobiology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Absence seizures occur most commonly in children. They involve brief episodes of staring and non-responsiveness. Electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings of typical childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) show bilateral 3?4 Hz spike-wave discharges. True CAE rarely persists to adulthood. Prior published reports of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in adult patients describe variable bilateral frontoparietal fMRI increases, decreases, and thalamic increases during generalized spike-wave, with most studies performed at 1.5T. The goal of the present study is to extend these investigations to typical absence seizures in the pediatric population, which may differ from adult patients, using combined EEG and fMRI at 3T. Methods: Pediatric patients with typical absence seizures, and no other seizure types, were tested. After application of a 19 channel EEG cap connected to an EEG recorder (Neuroscan NuAmps), fMRI was performed using a 3T MR system (Siemens Trio), with continuous EPI BOLD sequence. Multiple 10 minute imaging runs were repeated up to 6 times. To increase the chance of obtaining absence seizures, patients were asked to hold medications for up to 48 hours, and were sleep deprived the night before scanning. EEG artifact was removed by post-processing using temporal PCA-based gradient noise removal. fMRI data during seizure and baseline intervals were analyzed in a general linear model using SPM2. Results: During typical childhood absence seizures, we found significant blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal increases in bilateral thalamus. Moderate increases were found in the cingulate, lateral frontal, and parietal cortex. Decreased BOLD signal was observed in the retrosplenial cortex, and to a lesser degree in the bilateral frontoparietal cortex. Conclusions: Despite increased challenges of performing fMRI in pediatric patients, high quality data can be obtained in this population. As in adult patients, increases and decreases are seen in frontoparietal and thalamic networks. Further study is needed to determine whether variable involvement of different specific regions of cortex and thalamus during absence seizures is related to variable effects on cognition seen during these seizures. (Supported by Betsy and Jonathan Blattmachr Fund.) 1 Milan P. Borkovic, 1 Nebojsa J. Jovic, and 1 Jasna Jancic ( 1 Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia; Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia; and Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia ) Rationale: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is an idiopathic generalized epileptic syndrome. It is often considered as benign because of its non-lesional nature and favourable clinical long-term prognosis. The characteristic EEG pattern is presented with bilateral symmetric polyspike-wave complexes with anterior accentuation. Focal EEG abnormalities are not exclusive in patients with an unequivocal diagnosis of JME. Methods: A Group of 39 patients of both sexes (17 male, 22 female), aged from 12 to 26 years (mean 17.8 years) with JME were studied for focal EEG abnormalities recorded during the clinical follow-up. Mean seizure onset was 13.5 years. Diagnosis was made according to the history and EEG records. Antiepileptic treatment was started with valproate. Results: Initial clinical and EEG assesment was carried-out after the generalized tonic-clonic seizure (mainly induced by sleep-deprivation), in 51% of JME patients. Absences in 21% and myoclonic jerks in 28% of patients were observed as initial epileptic events and reffered for EEG examinations. Complete, stable, long-term seizure control was achieved with valproate use in 87% of patients. In remaining 13% no favorable therapeutic response of AEDs was noted, mainly due to the irregular lifestyle. Repeated EEGs during sleep and when awake showed the interictal polyspike-wave pattern or fast/classical spike-wave discharges. Generalized EEG patterns were prevalent as expected: polyspike-waves or spike-wave discharges non-related to photic stimulation were noted in 66.7% and paroxysmal abnormalities to photic stimulation in 35.9%. Non-specific abnormalities were shown in 10.3%, while, bilateral anterior spikes and sharp waves were recorded in 23.1% of JME adolescents. Localization-related EEG abnormalities (focal slow waves shifting between the hemispheres, spikes, sharp waves and focal onset or asymmetrical generalized discharges) were noted in 23,1% of our JME patients. Conclusions: In more than one fourth of our JME patients, EEG showed focal abnormalities in addition to the generalized EEG patterns. These features should not be mislead to the erroneous interperetation of EEG characteristic for localization-related epilepsy. 1 Luiz E. Betting, 1 Susana B. Mory, 2 Iscia Lopes-Cendes, 1 Li M. Li, 1 Marilisa M. Guerreiro, 1 Carlos A.M. Guerreiro, and 1 Fernando Cendes ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Medical Genetics, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The objectives of this study were to investigate the EEG profile in a group of patients with clinical diagnosis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) followed in a tertiary Hospital and to evaluate the contribution of the records for diagnosis and management of these patients. Methods: We retrospectively studied clinical and EEG features of 180 consecutive patients with IGE. Eighty patients were diagnosed with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), 35 had absence epilepsy (AE), 13 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures on awakening (GTCS-A), 28 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures only (TCS) and 24 had adult onset idiopathic generalized epilepsy (AIGE). The EEGs were classified in typical (synchronous generalized spike or polyspike and wave discharges with normal background), atypical (with clear focalities or asymmetries) and normal. Results: A total of 493 EEG exams were analyzed. The first EEG was normal in 45% of the 180 patients and only 33% had typical abnormalities. AE had a higher proportion of typical exams and needed less sequential exams to register a typical abnormality compared to the other groups. By contrast, the serial EEG profile of TCS and AIGE showed a higher proportion of normal and atypical EEG findings. Conclusions: These findings support previous recommendations that IGE patients should be treated with appropriate therapy based on clinical history. Waiting for a typical abnormal EEG pattern can generate an unacceptable delay in the correct diagnosis and treatment of these patients. In patients with long term epilepsy the diagnosis may be difficult. Furthermore, serial EEGs can help to elucidate the syndromic diagnosis, especially in patients with TCS and AIGE. (Supported by CAPES, FAPESP.) 1 Farzana Darbari, and 1 Sigmund Jenssen ( 1 Neurology, Drexel Medical College, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Sleep has been shown to influence multiple physiological processes i.e. control of blood pressure, glycemia and protein synthesis, and deprivation of sleep could theoretically lead to sickness. Patients who are admitted to a hospital suffer disturbance of sleep due to external, medical and psychological factors. Disturbed sleep leads to decreased sleep latency. We hypothesized that in-patients have decreased sleep latency as compared to out-patients and that sleep latency decreases with length of stay. Methods: Otherwise completely normal EEG recordings were reviewed prospectively for sleep onset, which we defined as at 30 seconds of stage two of sleep or briefer if stage two of sleep was seen more than once. Patients with known sleep disorders, deliberately sleep deprived recordings and recordings with focal or generalized abnormalities were excluded. We noted medications, length of stay and if recording had been done in AM or in PM. Comparisons were done using the Mann-Whitney test and Pearson's for correlation. Results: Thirty out-patient and 24 in-patient EEGs were reviewed. Mean sleep latency for out-patients was 16 minutes and 54 seconds (SD 11 minutes and 17 seconds) and for in-patients 11 minutes and 27 seconds (SD 8 minutes and 35 seconds). (P = 0.0314). Length of hospital stay and sleep latency did not correlate. There was no statistical difference in age, number of patients on sleep enhancing medications or time of day of EEG between the two groups. Conclusions: In-patients have decreased sleep latency as compared to out-patients. This could be related to disturbed sleep. To see if this is a risk factor for poor recovery needs further investigation. 1 Anita Datta, and 1 David B. Sinclair ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ) Rationale: The objective of the study was to compare the clinical course and outcome of children with typical and atypical features of Benign Epilepsy of Childhood with Rolandic Spikes (BECRS). Methods: A retrospective case series design was used in the setting of a tertiary care pediatric hospital. One hundred and twenty six children with BECRS were selected for the study. The patients were divided into two groups based on their clinical presentation. Group A consisted of children with typical features of BECRS. Group B consisted of those with atypical features. Atypical features included age of onset, abnormal neurological exam, developmental delay, and presence of other types of seizures. Patients' charts were reviewed for demographic data, family history, comorbid conditions, atypical clinical features, anticonvulsant drugs, and outcome data. Results: Atypical features were seen in 47% of patients. Comorbid disorders such as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and behavioral problems, although seen in both groups, were slightly more frequent in the atypical group. Sixty-seven percent of children had a family history of migraine and 54% were migraine sufferers. Overall, there was no difference between time to become seizure free between the groups: 62% of the typical group was controlled on medication by two years while 71% of the atypical group was seizure free. Thirty-five percent of the typical BECRS group were incompletely controlled on medication, while 65% of the atypical group required the addition of a second anti-epileptic drug. Resolution of the epilepsy occurred at about the same age in both groups with similar long term outcomes. Conclusions: Atypical features in BECRS are common. Comorbid disorders are seen in both groups. Personal or family history of migraine appears to be associated with the disorder. Overall, the long term outcome is similar in both groups, although the atypical patients may be initially more difficult-to-control. Resolution of the epilepsy and a good long term outcome was not affected by the presence of atypical clinical features. 1 Ronald G. Davis, and 1 Carl R. Barr ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Pediatric Neurology, PA, Orlando, FL; and Pediatric Neurology, Pediatric Neurology, PA, Orlando, FL ) Rationale: We report on a large series (>25) of pediatric patients who presented to our neurology practice with various neurologic referable complaints, excluding clinical seizure activity, who were discovered to have EEG abnormalities. Patient ages varied from 3?18years. Symptoms included headache with vertigo, vertigo, visual field alterations including Alice-in -Wonderland changes and atypical speech/language dyspraxia. Prior to presentation, there had been no history of seizure or seizure like activity noted in any of the patients by history and record review. Methods: Routine surface EEG was completed on these patients as part of the workup. Findings included focal sharp wave discharges, focal spike and wave discharges, rhythmic slowing and generalized bursts of spike and polyspike and wave discharges of the non-absence type. A significant percentage also activated with sleep. Neuroimaging was normal in all cases. Therapeutic intervention varied and included the use of antiepileptic medications. Results: A positive response to symptoms (>50% improvement in symptoms) was noted in >50% of patients. Of the initial nonresponders, a second antiepileptic medication was tried. Of those who did not respond to 2 medication trials, discontinuation of medication was recommended. No significant adverse events were reported for any patients who were treated. Conclusions: In conclusion, EEG abnormalities can be seen in pediatric patients with atypical neurologic complaints without clinical seizures.How these electrographic abnormalities contribute to symptoms is unclear. Additionally, guidelines for medication intervention will need to be established, though further investigation will be required. Given these finding and significantly positive clinical response in this limited number of patients, EEG should be considered frequently in the diagnostic evaluation of similar pediatric patients. 1 Eliane Kobayashi, 1 Andrew P. Bagshaw, 1 Jean Gotman, and 1 François Dubeau ( 1 EEG Department, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, Canada ) Rationale: Cerebral cavernous angiomas (CCAs) are frequently associated with focal intractable epilepsy, and their epileptogenicity is usually attributed to the rim of hemosiderin deposits. Co-recording of EEG and fMRI is a new method to investigate the effects of epileptic discharges in the focus and at distance. Methods: We used EEG-fMRI to identify BOLD responses to interictal spikes in patients with CCAs. Spikes were marked according to spatial distribution, with each spike type determining one EEG-fMRI study. Combined maps of t-statistics were created to assess positive (activation) and negative (deactivation) changes in BOLD signal related to the spikes. Responses were analysed in the lesional and perilesional area, and at distance. The raw fMRI signal in the lesion and its boundaries was evaluated for signal loss due to the susceptibility artefact associated with the lesion and the hemosiderin. Results: Eight patients, three with multiple CCAs, were scanned, all with temporal lobe epilepsy and spikes. One patient had bilateral spikes, analyzed separately, and three studies with less than two spikes were excluded. Therefore, six studies were analyzed, all showing BOLD responses: four had only activation, one had only deactivation and one had both responses. No response was found in the lesion itself or immediate periphery, and the raw fMRI signal showed loss in lesional and perilesional areas in all patients. Responses involved the perilesional area in 2/6 studies, both concordant with the spike topography, one as activation and the other one as deactivation. In all patients, areas of BOLD responses were identified at distance from the lesion. In the four studies where the spikes were ipsilateral to the temporal CCA, there was activation in that temporal lobe. In the two studies where the spikes were contralateral to the temporal CCA, the response was concordant with the spike in one study, and unrelated to either the spike or the lesion in the other one. Conclusions: Despite susceptibility artifacts caused by iron deposits, we demonstrated EEG-fMRI responses involving the perilesional areas in 33% of studies, supporting their role in epileptogenicity of CCAs. The frequently distant responses are in accordance with previous studies in lesional and non-lesional temporal lobe epilepsy. These responses may be the result of distant effect of spikes, which, in CCAs, could be enhanced by the possible presence of non-visible microvascular lesions. (Supported by The Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), Preston Robb fellowship from the MNI and the Savoy Foundation for Epilepsy.) 1 Maria D.C. Gomes, 1 Eliana Garzon, 1 Elza M.T. Yacubian, and 1,2 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Federal University of S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Psychiatry and Psychology, University of S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Hypsarritmia is a well-known EEG pattern that usually appears associated to a severe form of infantile epilepsy. Different patterns of hypsarritmia are recognizable on visual analysis, making it difficult to correlate to outcome. In this study we propose the use of scales for objective analysis of EEG background and hypsarritmia, searching for predictors of EEG outcome in West Syndrome. Methods: EEGs of children with diagnosis of West Syndrome and infantile spasms were analyzed. Patients were included in the study between October 2002 to October 2004. EEG background parameters encompassed presence of background gradient, amount of delta activity, sleep spindles and assimetry; hypsarritmia parameters included amplitude and percentage of hypsarritmia in the EEG record. Patients were divided in controlled (group 1) and uncontrolled (group 2) and their scores compared. Clinical variables including age of onset of spasms, age at the time of the examination, previous use of antiepileptic drugs, etiology and MRI data were additionally analyzed. Results: 24 EEGs were assessed and scored. Global scores varied from 7 to 18, background scores from 2 to 12, and hypsarritmia scores from 4 to 9, respectively (groups 1 and 2). Age of onset of spasms were classified as early onset, classical and late onset, and the global EEG scores were 11.8 (sd = 2.28), 12.61 (sd = 3.09) and 13, respectively. Differences were not statiscally significant. Patients'age at the time of the evaluation were also divided in up to 4 months, 4 to 9 months, 9 to 12 months and over 12 months. Global EEG scores regarding patients' age were, respectively 14, 12.50 (sd = 3.12); 11.67(sd = 2.50) and 12.78 (sd = 3.15). There was no correlation between EEG scores and duration of epilepsy, etiology, MRI findings. Lower scores were found in controlled patients, while higher scores in uncontrolled patients. Overall, only background scores were correlated with outcome. Conclusions: In patients with West syndrome EEG scores were not affected by clinical and etiological data. Global EEG scores do not have prognostic value, but background scores were predictive of EEG outcome (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Jeffrey W. Britton, 1 Gena R. Ghearing, 1 Eduardo E. Benarroch, and 1 Gregory D. Cascino ( 1 Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic Rochester, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: The importance of the insular cortex and adjacent temporal lobe in cardiovascular regulation has been demonstrated. Some studies have suggested that cortical cardiac autonomic influences may be lateralized, with sympathetic representation lateralized to the right insula and parasympathetic to the left. Ictal bradycardia, although rare, offers an opportunity to study the functional anatomy of cardiac rate control. Methods: A query was performed on all electronic reports of prolonged EEG monitoring studies performed at Mayo Clinic Rochester from January 1990 to December 2004. Ictal bradycardia was defined as an R-R interval of greater than 2.0 seconds or activation of cardiac pacing during a recorded seizure. All clinical and electrophysiological data in identified patients were reviewed to determine localization and lateralization of EEG activity at seizure onset and at the onset of bradycardia in these patients. A literature review of previously reported cases was also conducted. Results: Thirteen patients were identified out of 6,168 patients who underwent video-EEG monitoring at our institution during the study period. Ictal bradycardia was present in 29 of 60 recorded seizures in these patients. Seizure onset was localized to the temporal lobe in all patients. EEG activity at seizure onset did not consistently lateralize to either hemisphere. Seven patients had ictal bradycardia with right temporal seizure onset, five with left temporal seizures and one with bitemporal seizure onset. Seizure activity was bilateral at bradycardia onset in 9 of 13 patients. One patient had seizure activity confined to the right hemisphere, and 3 had only left hemisphere activity at bradycardia onset. One hundred six cases of ictal bradycardia were found in the literature, with 80 of these patients having simultaneous EEG and ECG monitoring. Of these, seizure onset was localized to the temporal lobe in 35 patients, to the frontotemporal region in 15, the frontal lobe in 13 and the occipital lobe in one. Information regarding the EEG lateralization at seizure onset was available in 55 cases, but only 21 of these cases had information on EEG lateralization at the onset of bradycardia. While 34 of 55 patients had seizure onset lateralized to the left hemisphere at seizure onset, 11 of 21 had bilateral activity at bradycardia onset. Conclusions: Both our series and a review of the ictal bradycardia literature support the association of ictal bradycardia with temporal lobe onset seizures. However, ictal bradycardia does not appear to be a consistent lateralizing finding. The distribution of seizure activity at the onset of bradycardia was bilateral in our series, suggesting that bradycardia is more likely to occur in the setting of bilateral hemispheric seizure activity. These data do not support the presence of a lateralized cortical zone associated with parasympathetic cardiovascular activity in humans. (Supported by NINDS P01 NS32352-P2.) 1 Preeti Gupta, 2 Robert Rothermel, 1 Darren R. Fuerst, and 1 Aashit K. Shah ( 1 Neurology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit Medical Cetner, Detroit, MI ; and 2 Psychiatry/Psychology, Detroit Medical Center, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: The Wada test is a neurological test used for epileptic patients who are scheduled for epilepsy surgery to evaluate memory function and language dominance by injecting a short acting anesthetic, sodium amobarbital, in each internal carotid artery separately, anesthetizing the part of the brain perfused by that circulation. We have observed shivering in a portion of patients undergoing the Wada test. The relationship of shivers in the context of this test has not been delineated. Therefore, in this study, we attempt to attain a further understanding regarding this clinical phenomenon. Methods: We studied a total of 14 patients (9.5?50.25 years) prospectively who have undergone the Wada test since 2003. Multiple variables including age, race, sex, site of injection, dose of amobarbital, duration of shivering, duration of slowing on the EEG (as a surrogate for continued effects of amobarbital on the brain), and hemispheric dominance were analyzed. Results: Of the fourteen patients, six (43%) experienced shivering during the Wada test. The duration of shivering was similar to the duration of amobarbital's effect as monitored by the presence of slowing on EEG. No significant difference in the two groups was noted in terms of age, race, sex, dose of amobarbital, and hemispheric dominance. Of these six patients, four patients shivered after injection to the left ICA and two patients shivered after injection to the right ICA. Conclusions: There is no difference among patient characteristics in those who shivered vs. those who did not, suggesting an anatomical cause for this clinical observation. The anterior cerebral artery and the anterior communicating artery, branches of the ICA, perfuse the anterior hypothalamus. Thus, sodium amobarbital injected into the ICA likely causes a temporary functional lesion of the anterior hypothalamic-preoptic area (heat center). This area normally inhibits the primary motor center for shivering. This ?lesion? likely causes a release of the primary motor center for shivering from the inhibitory effects from the ?heat center? resulting in the clinical manifestation of shivering. 1 Yun Jung Her, 1 Joon Soo Lee, 2 Jong Doo Lee, and 1 Heung Dong Kim ( 1 Pediatrics, Institute of Handicapped Children, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Seodaemun-ku, Korea ; and 2 Diagnostic Radiology, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Seodaemun-ku, Korea ) Rationale: Changes in metabolism due to the differences of cerebral blood flow during ictal and interictal period can be quite various when observed by 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluro-D-glucose(FDG)-PET. So, we performed EEG and PET concurrently to evaluate the effect of epileptiform and non-epileptiform discharge of EEG on glucose metabolism. We tried to reduce the rate of false lateralization of PET reading and evaluate the relationship between EEG and PET result, thus deciding the appropriateness of concurrent study of PET and PET-EEG along with the importance of PET-EEG in diagnosing and localizing a lesion. Methods: 73 children with pediatric epilepsy who received PET and PET-EEG simultaneously were included in our study. We studied their clinical aspects of seizure, the severity of focal slow wave during interictal period with the frequency and localization of polyspike or sharp wave to compare with the result of PET. Also, we evaluated the relationship between pathologic results and the concurrency rate between PET and PET-EEG in patients who received operation. Results: 73 patients received PET and PET-EEG concurrently. Their sex ratio was 1.8:1. When grouping the patients according to the site of the lesion in EEG, 53 children proved to have a local lesion showing the ratio of 2.7:1 to children without it. Among 53 children, 27 had focal seizure while 26 had secondary encephalopathy. The frequency of epileptiform discharge was 18% in no/rare, 10% in occasional, and 72% in frequent group while showing 0%, 43% and 68% rate of concurrency with PET each with high correlation (p = 0.001, r = 0.491). Severity of non-epileptiform discharge was classified as no, mild, moderate, and severe and were 21%, 34%, 23%, and 22% of the whole group along with 13%, 52%, 65%, 69% of concurrence rate (p = 0.001, r = 0.365). According to EEG study, 29% of focal lesion was located in frontal, 14% in centrotemporal, and 8% in occipital area. 22% showed lateralization and 27% without it. The rate of concurrency between epileptiform discharge and PET according to the location of focal lesion was 67%, 80%, 67%, 75%, and 5% (p = 0.001). The same rate was 57%, 30%, 50%, 88%, 25% (p = 0.002) between non-epileptiform discharge and PET showing certain difference. 10 patients went through operation. 6 showed concurrent result in PET and PET-EEG and 4 out of them had concurrency with 24 hr video EEG and brain MRI as well. They had no seizure event after the surgery and proved to have cortical microdysgenesis or dysplasia in pathologic evaluation. Conclusions: Epileptiform discharge and non-epileptiform discharge in EEG showed certain association with hypometabolim in PET study. In conclusion, we recommend PET-EEG to reduce false lateralization and to localize lesion in cases of high frequency or severity. 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2 Micah Brown, and 2,3 Don M. Tucker ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesics, Inc., Eugene, OR ; and 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ) Rationale: This study was undertaken to examine the spatiotemporal dynamics of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) in temporal lobe epilepsy by applying methods that improve both spatial localization and temporal precision in mapping the rapidly evolving discharges. Methods: Eight patients with temporal lobe epilepsy underwent dense array 256 channel scalp EEG recordings. Localization of IEDs at 10 msec intervals in relation to a standard MRI model was accomplished with dipole fits and with two distributed linear inverse methods of source analysis, using probabilistic gray matter voxels as source constraints. The results were compared to conventional EEG waveform interpretations and the limited source analysis possible with conventional EEG. Results: The three methods of source localization yielded convergent results. The initial onset of the averaged IED localized to one basal-mesial temporal lobe. Adjacent temporal lobe regions become involved within 10?20 msec. In several patients, there was rapid spread to the opposite temporal lobe and, in some cases, to extratemporal regions before returning to the original temporal lobe. Both temporal lobes often were sources for IEDs. Each IED showed unique propagation patterns. Initial IED temporal involvement was concordant with the site of surgery in most subjects. Restriction of mapping to a conventional EEG montage resulted in fewer IED detections and frequently misleading results from both visual inspection and source localization. Conclusions: Discerning the rapid propagation of IEDs in temporal lobe epilepsy can be achieved by applying source analysis to dense array recordings. Dynamic brain mapping improves discharge detection, reduces margin of error in source analysis calculations, enhances reliability of anatomic localization of discharges with msec resolution, and yields insight into cortical network involved in epileptic discharges. 1 Yue-Loong Hsin, 2 Tomor Harnod, and 1 Shin-Zong Lin ( 1 Neurology, Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan ) Rationale: Because of the excellent therapeutic effect and high safety of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in certain neurologic disorders, its clinical application has been extended to the treatment of epilepsy. Therefore, the procedure of stimulation electrode implantation provides an opportunity for studying neurophysiology of deep brain structures. We investigated the ictal EEG activity of subthalamic nucleus (STN) in treatment of patient with refractory epilepsy by deep brain stimulation (DBS). Methods: Seven patients with refractory epilepsy underwent implantation of DBS leads into bilateral STN. In addition to the extension of STN leads as intracranial EEG electrodes, subdural strips were implanted to the corresponding cortical regions of epileptogenesis. To obtain ictal and interictal epileptiform discharges, prolonged video-EEG recording was performed before delivering electric impulses into the STN. In a patient, the intracranial EEG was co-registered with electromyography of muscles involved in the myoclonic seizures. Results: Over 50 epileptic seizures including partial seizures, atypical absence seizures, myoclonic seizures, tonic seizures, tonic-clonic seizures, and unclassified seizures were recorded. Ictal EEG activities in the STN had fast alpha activity, rhythmic spiking, and quasi/periodic spike/polyspike-and-slow-wave complexes that were not different from cortical epileptic patterns. Where there were bilaterally synchronous and rhythmic spikes and spike/polyspike-and-slow-wave discharges in generalized seizures would be faithfully reflected at bilateral STN simultaneously with opposite polarity. Additionally, myoclonic bursting was present at the STN. Conclusions: The STN generates epileptic EEG activity. The STN participates in the network interactions between cortical and subcortical structures. Diverse seizure activities of the STN reflect the pathogenesis of epilepsy that should influence the outcome of STN DBS. 1 Mohammed M.S. Jan ( 1 Neurosciences, King Faisal Specialist Hospital  2 Pediatrics, University of California at Irvine College of Medicine, Irvine, CA ; and 3 For OC Kids, Orange, CA ) Rationale: In a tertiary care center, we performed video-EEG monitoring on 32 autistic children, and found that 19 had interictal epileptiform abnormalities (IEAs). All recorded seizures in this group were non-epileptic. Therefore, we question whether the IEAs in these children represent an intrinsic part of the autistic phenotype Methods: Video-EEG monitoring studies of autistic children (n = 32) were compared with those of non-autistic children with other cerebral disorders (n = 20). This comparison group included children with developmental delay, learning disability, and attention deficit disorder, who like to autistic group, underwent continuous EEG or video-EEG monitoring to exclude epileptic seizures. None of the patients from either group proved to have epilepsy. Specific parameters that were examined included the occurrence of IEAs and the types, i.e., focal, multifocal, and generalized IEAs. Results: The autistic group consisted of 27 boys and 5 girls with a median age of 5 years (2?13 years). The comparison group consisted of 12 boys and 7 girls with a median age of 7.5 years (1?18 years). Nineteen of the 32 (59%) autistic children and 12 of the 20 (60%) children in the comparison group had IEAs, respectively. Of these children with IEAs, 11 of 19 (58%) in the autistic group and only 3 of 12 (25%) in the comparison group had generalized IEAs. Multifocal IEAs also tended to occur more often in the autistic group than in the comparison group (32% vs. 8%). In contrast, focal IEAs tended to predominate in the comparison group (75%) compared to the autistic group (42%), although a minority of patients in each group had co-existence of focal/multifocal and generalized IEAs. Conclusions: IEAs may occur in non-epileptic children with a variety of cerebral disorders. However, the abnormalities in children with autism tend to differ from those of a similar cohort without autism. Specifically, generalized IEAs may constitute an intrinsic part of the autistic phenotype. 1 Oh-Young Kwon, 1 Yeongsoo Kim, 1 Ki-Jong Park, 1 Nack-Cheon Choi, and 1 Byeong Hoon Lim ( 1 Department of Neurology, Gyeongsang National University College of Medicine, Jinju, Gyeongnam, Korea ) Rationale: True anterior temporal electrodes (TATEs, T1 and T2) are as effective as mini-sphenoidal electrodes, and significantly superior to anterior temporal electrodes (ATEs, F7 and F8) to detect epileptiform discharges. In addition, non-invasiveness makes TATEs more useful in clinical application. Low Resolution Brain Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA) is a mathematical model for the reconstruction of current source from digitalized scalp electroencephalography (EEG). Using LORETA, we investigated the current source distribution patterns of interictal spikes on TATEs and those on ATEs respectively, and tried to find the difference between them. Methods: In the each digital scalp EEG of epileptic patients showing the interictal spikes of maximum amplitude on T1, T2, F7 or F8, we selected the most typical spike. The EEGs of ten patients were enrolled for the spike on each electrode respectively. All the 40 patients were epileptics and had complex partial seizures. The EEG data were collected from 21 channels using an average reference montage. In each typical spike, one time frame showing the highest amplitude of global power field was selected and LORETA image was acquired using that time frame. The average LORETA images for each electrode were obtained respectively. The Statistical non-Parametric Map (SnPM) between spikes on T1 and those on F7, and the SnPM between the spikes on T2 and those on F8 were acquired. Results: The current source density in the average LORETA image of T1 spikes were maximum in Brodmann areas (BAs) 20 and 21. That of T2 spikes were maximum in BAs 13 and 21. The current sources of T1 and T2 spikes were mainly located in the anterior temporal area, and rare in the frontal lobe. The current source density in average LORETA image of F7 spikes were maximum in BAs 21, 13, 45 and 46. That of F8 spikes were maximum in BAs 13, 21 and 11. The current sources of F7 and F8 spikes were mainly located in the anterior temporal area and it was also observed in the insular cortex and the inferior frontal area. The difference of current source density in the SnPM between T1 and F7 spikes was maximal in BA 22 and minimal in BA 45. That difference between T2 and F8 spikes was maximal in BA 29 and minimal in BA 6. Conclusions: Both of TATEs and ATEs may mainly reflect the current source of the anterior temporal area. The current source of the inferior frontal gyrus may be more easily detected by F7 than T1 and that of the superior temporal gyrus by T1 than F7. The current source of the superior frontal and precentral gyrus may be more easily detected by F8 than T2 and that of the posterior cingulate gyrus by T2 than F8. Thus TATEs may have less influences of the current source of the frontal lobe and reflect the current source of the temporal area more specifically than ATEs. 1 Pål G. Larsson, and 1 John Wilson ( 1 Department of Neurodiagnostics, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Norway ) Rationale: The last ten months we carried out a total of 440 recordings of which more than 200 had a manifold increase of epileptic activity during sleep. The majority of these patients had a seizure disorder, but some had only cognitive and/or behavioural disorders. The purpose of this study was to characterize the epileptic activity and relate it to the clinical diagnosis. Methods: All recordings, including at least one night, with epileptic activity during sleep were included. Since many patients had recordings before and after start of drug treatment, only the first recording was included, in total 114. Referrals, and other available information were used for diagnosis. The patients were grouped as having epilepsy, attention deficit (ADHD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or Landau-Kleffner syndrom (LKS). Spike index was calculated as the fraction of time when there was less than 3 s between spikes in 10-minutes epochs. Results: The mean age of the patients was 11 years. There was only one patient below the age of five and three above 17. The mean spike wave index for the whole group was 45.6% during slow wave sleep, 15.8% during REM-sleep and 9.4% awake. The mean number of detected spikes was 15872 during sleep. In the patient group with seizures the mean increase in epileptic activity from awake to sleep was 81.4 times. In patients without seizures the mean increase was 51 times (n = 16). The difference is not significant (p = 0.33). ADHD, ASD and LKS in patients without seizures had a mean increase of 38.1 (n = 5), 9.5 (n = 2) and 22.9 (n = 4) times respectively. The mean inter spike interval during slow sleep was 1.1 s in the seizure group and 2.4 in the non-seizure group (p = 0.0034). Conclusions: There was a significant longer inter spike interval in the group without seizures compared to the epilepsy group. This may indicate that higher spike frequency increases the change of clinical seizures. The increase in epileptic activity during sleep was highest in the ADHD group without seizures, but the difference did not reach significance compared to the epilepsy group. The suprisingly high increase in epileptic activity during sleep in the ADHD group warrants further studies. All groups showed large spread that partly reflects the age differences and partly may be due to heterogeneity in the groups. 1 Tobias Loddenkemper, and 1 Richard C. Burgess ( 1 Department of Epilepsy and Sleep Disorders, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Left hemispheric predominance of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) has been highlighted by a previous study from our center. Lateralization becomes slightly more prominent in adults than in children. However, no data on lateralization of benign focal epileptiform discharges of childhood (BFED) are available. The objective of our study was to determine the distribution, frequency and type of epileptiform abnormalities as a function of age and to compare it with BFEDs and slowing. Methods: The current study retrospectively reviewed all routine (25,935) and multi-hour (5449) EEGs during a consecutive 10 year period. 7704 patients under the age of 18 years were included. All EEGs were read according to a systematic EEG classification system (Lüders et al., 1993). EEGs were reviewed for unilateral epileptiform discharges, unilateral BFED and slowing. The lateralization of the abnormality was counted only once for each patient by including just the first abnormal EEG. Additionally subsequent EEGs of all infants under the age of 3 years with unilateral IED were reviewed for change in lateralization of IED over time. Results: EEG recordings with unilateral regional IED were seen in 612 (8%) pediatric patients; left-sided IED were seen in 260 patients (55%), right-sided in 213 (45%) and both right and left-sided in 139. There was no difference between infants (40 left, 33 right) and older children (220 left, 180 right). BFEDs were seen in 136 (49 left, 50 right, 37 bilateral) out of 7704 pediatric patients (1.8%). No BFEDs were seen under 3 years of age. Continuous unilateral regional slow was seen in 193 patients, with 97 (20 infants) on the left and 96 (18 infants) on the right. Intermittent slow (less than 80% of the recording) was seen in 199 patients (32 infants) on the left (61.6%) and in 123 patients (9 infants) on the right. In 118 infants with unilateral or bilateral regional IED, the lateralization of IED in subsequent EEGs was reviewed. 32 patients with uni- or bilateral IEDs had subsequent EEGs, with localization changed in 9. Two patients converted from left to right (one of these two underwent epilepsy surgery on the left), and none converted from right to left. Five patients with initially left sided and two with initially right sided IED showed bilateral IEDs subsequently. Two patients with initially bilateral AEDs had subsequently right-sided IED in one and left-sided IED in the other. Conclusions: Regional epileptiform discharges were seen in approximately 8% of patients. Interictal epileptiform discharges and intermittent slow were more frequently seen in the left hemisphere. Age adjusted analysis of the data showed no difference between infants and older children. Continuous slow and BFEDs were equally distributed between both hemispheres. Longitudinal follow up of consecutive infant EEGs did not reveal a trend towards IED conversion from one side to the other. 1 Fumisuke Matsuo ( 1 Neurology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake, UT ) Rationale: Advanced digital technology significantly improved accuracy of EEG feature analysis, but detection of interictal focal epileptiform transients (IFET) with clinical relevance continues to depend on human visual analysis. Particularly problematic has been the difficult-to-define spatiotemporal IFET profile that experienced interpreters find no difficulty in recognizing and applying to polygraphic EEG analysis. EEG geometry was examined in IFET polygraphic derivations from randomly chosen clinical cases. The primary objective was to delineate the time-series characteristics of well-formed IFET. The secondary objective was to demonstrte polygraphic variations that indicate subtle variation in IFET source location within an area of unit interelectrode distance. Methods: During 2004 a total of 53 standard EEG cases revealed a varying number of IFET. A representative IFET chosen from each case was reformatted in common average reference derivations. One derivation with the largest IFET deflection was chosen, approximating its source to a 10?20 scalp electrode. The 53 representative IFET were reviewed for waveform criteria culled from the literature, and ranked in a descending order by evaluating the degree of fit, when polygraphically superimposed. Well-formed IFET were then reformatted in serial bipolar derivations for detailed examination of the IFET peak and phase relationship. Results: The first 5 ranked IFET referred to common average reference are summarized in Figure. A well-formed IFET consists of 3 major peaks with different waveform. The third (blunt) peak varied most, and attenuated in lesser-ranked IFET. When displayed in a chain of 5 serial bipolar derivations, phase relationship surrounding the IFET peak differed among cases. This finding was confirmed by examining multiple IFET within each case Conclusions: Digital technology enables the viewer to reformat EEG data off-line and improve EEG feature extraction. The notion of well-formed IFET is elementary, but robust, because it allows to supplement voltage criteria with additional clinically relevant geomatric paramaters, and can improve automated IFET screening and source modeling. Demonstration of phase relationship surrounding the IFET peak specific to each case confirmed the feasibility of demonstrating subtle variation in location of an equivalent current dipole relative to head-surface electrodes. This method is easy to apply in clinical settings and can expand the scope of EEG analysis in space domain. 1 Daniela Minecan, 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Lawrence Hudson ( 1 Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Nonconvulsive status epilepticus(NCSE) is a heterogenous entity, often associated with subtle clinical signs. There are few reports on the electroencephalographic(EEG) patterns in such patients of pediatric age range. NCSE can be further subdivided into 2 groups: complex partial and generalized. Electroencephalograms(EEGs) are known to have a fairly high degree of sensitivity and specificity for identifying NCSE.Some of the patterns previously described in association with NCSE in the pediatric patients include: generalized synchronous discharges, alpha coma, burst suppression pattern. We describe an unusual pattern that was observed in three of our patients that presented with mental status(MS) changes and were diagnosed with NCSE. Methods: Three patients(age 3?8 years) who presented with MS changes and decreased responsiveness were evaluated at the University of Michigan Hospital. Clinical features(age at presentation, previous history of any kind of seizures, duration of symptoms) and EEGs were assessed. Other diagnostic tests were obtained in each of the patients, according to the clinical presentation. The EEGs were performed with a number of standard bipolar and referential montages, according to the international 10?20 system of electrode placement. All three patients were loaded with antiepileptic drugs, and two of them required antibiotic treatment as well. Results: In two of the patients, the background activity was characterized by very high amplitude(>250uV) delta activity(1?2Hz) and which was diffusely distributed. This was at times rhythmic, but without clear evolution. In one patient, there were multifocal independent sharp waves noted, with no specific hemisphere predominance. In the other patient, independent right/left frontal sharp waves were present. The third patient EEG was notable for a very high amplitude delta activity(1?2Hz) over the right hemisphere and loss of faster frequencies within the same region. Bursts of high amplitude rhythmic 2.5 Hz spike and wave activity, up to 15 seconds in duration, were present over the left frontal region and less often over the left temporal region. No distinct clinical events were noted, other than the MS changes. All EEG patterns improved in paralel with the clinical symptoms, with gradual return of the MS to the previous baseline status. Conclusions: The very high amplitude rhythmic delta activity, whether focal or generalized, is an unusual and not previously described EEG pattern in NCSE. All our patients were younger than 10 years at the time of onset, which raises the question of an age dependent underlying pathophysiologic mechanism responsible. More EEG studies of patients in NCSE will need to be observed in order to confirm how prevalent this EEG pattern might be and to better characterize its clinical associations(e.g.age, etiology). This may also contribute to the better and early identification of this category of patients and rapid institution of treatment. 1 Hian-Tat Ong, 2 Karen J.L. Lim, 1 Poh-Chan Low, 2 Stacey K.H. Tay, 1 Shang-Chee Chong, and 2 Poh-Sim Low ( 1 Children's Medical Institute, National University Hospital, Singapore, Singapore ; and 2 Paediatrics, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore ) Rationale: Hyperventilation (HV) is an important activation procedure during routine pediatric electroencephalograph (EEG) recording. Nevertheless, there is little scientific evidence to allow standardization of the HV procedure, in particular the duration of HV required, to be deemed adequate. We attempt to determine the adequacy of HV in pediatric subjects during EEG recording, by assessing the degree of EEG build-up of slow activity and the corresponding non-invasive end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2) measurement. Methods: Following informed consent by the parents or adult caregivers, we assessed a total of 117 pediatric subjects aged 5 to 16 years who were scheduled for routine EEG studies during a 3-year period from April 2002 to March 2005. The inclusion criteria were the subject's ability to perform adequate HV and a normal waking EEG background. All subjects performed HV for 4 minutes. An electronic metronome was used to synchronize the over-breathing for all subjects in order to achieve an optimal respiratory rate of 30 per minute. A nasal cannula was attached to the subject and the EtCO2 values were recorded using a Nellcor NPB-75 capnometer. The EEG build-up of slow activity was categorized according to the severity of slowing within a 10-second epoch of the EEG recording, as previously reported by Yamatani et al. The four categories consisted of: an increase in amplitude but no intermixed slow waves (+), mild or partial transient slowing (++), moderate slowing (+++), and marked slowing with disappearance of background activity (++++). Results: The mean EtCO2 values and their standard deviations after starting HV were (30.7 ± 5.0) mm Hg at 1 minute, (27.7 ± 5.0) mm Hg at 2 minutes, (26.2 ± 4.8) mm Hg at 3 minutes, and (26.1 ± 4.9) mm Hg at 4 minutes. The number of subjects showing the 4 different degrees of EEG slowing at various time periods after commencing HV is shown in the table. Conclusions: Our study showed that when performing hyperventilation, there was a correlation between the EtCO2 values achieved and the degree of EEG slowing present, for the duration of HV till 3 minutes. However, the EtCO2 values and the degree EEG slowing did not show a significant difference between HV for 3 minutes versus HV for 4 minutes. Thus, the results of our study suggest that good hyperventilation effort for 3 minutes is sufficient and this could be used for standardization of the duration of HV required in routine pediatric EEG recording. (Supported by National Healthcare Group (Singapore) cluster research fund: Grant Number NHG-PRP-01139.) Number of subjects showing different degree of EEG slowing during various intervals of HV Degree of EEG slowing + ++ +++ ++++ HV at 1 minute 56 49 12 ?0 HV at 2 minutes 33 57 24 ?3 HV at 3 minutes 22 57 28 10 HV at 4 minutes 31 51 25 10 1 Maryann Pelkey, 1 Sanjeev V. Kothare, 1 Geoffrey Harrison, and 1 Divya S. Khurana ( 1 Section of Neurology, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Attainment of sleep during an EEG is important as interictal epileptiform discharges are often enhanced during drowsiness, stage I and stage II sleep and transition from drowsiness to arousal. Sleep deprivation is often used as a technique to obtain sleep during a routine EEG recording while some EEG laboratories routinely sedate young children to obtain a sleep recording. Both techniques have their drawbacks. Hyperventilation during an EEG is often followed by drowsiness; we therefore hypothesized that hyperventilation early in the course of an EEG would encourage sleep production. Conversely, photic stimulation early in an EEG delays sleep due to its arousing effect. Methods: This was a prospective study of children over the age of 2 years who were scheduled for a non sleep deprived EEG between 9?11 am in the Neurophysiology Laboratory of a tertiary children's hospital over a 3 month period. The first 32 children received photic stimulation in the beginning of the EEG and hyperventilation at the end; the next 32 children were hyperventilated early in the course of the EEG and photic stimulation was performed at the end of the EEG. Both groups were assessed for presence or absence of sleep during their EEG recording. Results: One of the 32 (3.1%) children in the first group who received photic stimulation in the beginning of the recording transitioned to sleep. Twelve of 32 children (37.5%) who hyperventilated at the beginning of the recording attained stage II sleep. This was statistically significant (p = 0.001). Conclusions: Hyperventilation performed early during an EEG increases the likelihood of attaining sleep, while photic stimulation early in the recording decreases the chances of inducing sleep. Therefore, in order to optimize attainment of sleep, pediatric neurophysiology labs should routinely begin the EEG with hyperventilation and end with photic stimulation 1 Mark Quigg, 2 Boris Kovatchev, and 2 Daniel Cox ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; and 2 Psychiatric Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: Driving performance is a skill in which impaired vigilance due to diabetic hypoglycemia (HG) has both personal and public health consequences. Studies with the use of a driving simulator show that driving impairment occurs coincident with impaired vigilance measured by EEG that accompanies onset of hypoglycemic symptoms. We evaluate whether recent driving history or awareness of HG during driving are associated with changes in EEG-vigilance measured while driving during euglycemia (EG) or during HG. Methods: Simulated driving was monitored in two 30 minute trials on 2 consecutive days. During EG driving, blood glucose (BG) was maintained through an insulin clamp to levels ?100 mg/dl. For HG driving, BG was gradually decreased from an initial target of ?70 mg/dl to ?50 mg/dl. Self-treatment of hypoglycemia was scored as ?present ? or ?absent? depending on whether the patient drank a ?sugar soda? (a non-sugar, diet soda) to correct perceived HG symptoms during simulated driving. Recent driving mishaps were scored according to the patients' self-report of driving accidents or moving citations within the past two years. Multi-channel digital EEG was acquired was acquired during simulated driving trials. Relative EEG spectral power data was averaged into five-minute epochs to correspond with BG sampling rate. The difference between relative alpha and theta powers at the central vertex (ATDiff) was used to quantify vigilance. Outcomes were modeled using binary logistic regression with self-treament (+/?) and driving mishaps (+/?) as dependent variables, and BG and ATDiff during EG and HG epochs as independent variables.? Results: Thirty-two subjects completed both EG and HG trials. 60% self-treated HG during HG driving, and 68% admitted to recent driving mishaps. Driving history and self-treatment were not significantly associated (Chi square = 2.54, p = 0.28). Subjects overall showed increasing delta power with decreasing BG. In the case of driving mishaps, increasing ATDiff during both EG (B = 4.13, p = 0.008) and HG (B = 3.41, p = 0.02) driving trials predicted driving mishaps. In the case of self-treatment of HG, decreasing ATDiff during HG driving did not significantly predict self-treatment. However, values of ATDiff increasingly diverged with worsening BG, with self-treating subjects experiencing decreasing ATDiff. Conclusions: Task-acquired EEG shows worse vigilance in diabetics who successfully recognize and treat HG. EEG vigilance is impaired in diabetics who have no self-reported history of driving mishaps. These findings suggest that mechanisms independent of EEG vigilance may allow compensation for hypoglycemia-associated performance. 1 Rajesh RamachandranNair, 1 Jacob M. Muthalaly, 1 Manoj Parameswaran, and 1 Vellani T. Ajithkumar ( 1 Neurology, Medicine, Pediatrics, Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, India ) Rationale: Both acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) and Herpes Simplex encephalitis (HSE) can present with alteration in sensorium and seizures. Access to immediate MRI brain may not be available in developing world. Early diagnosis and treatment determines outcome in HSE. Steroids, used to treat ADEM, can be harmful in HSE. Aim of our study was to compare the early electroencephalographic (EEG) findings in ADEM and HSE to aid dignostic differentiation. Methods: Patients presenting with seizures and altered sensorium, who were subsequently diagnosed either as ADEM or HSE based on MRI brain and virological studies (CSF-PCR and rising titer of CSF HSV antibody), were included in the study. EEGs performed within 72 hours after the onset of neurological symptoms were analysed for background activity, interictal epileptiform activity (including periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges-PLEDs) and ictal discharges. Incidence of abnormal EEG patterns in ADEM and HSE were compared using X2/Fisher's test. Results: EEGs were performed within 72 hours in 21 patients (age 2?56 years, mean 18.6 yrs) with ADEM and 32 patients (age 4?72 years; mean 23.7 yrs) with HSE. All 53 EEGs were abnormal due to background slowing or epileptic discharges. Early EEG findings in ADEM and HSE Variable ADEM HSE p value Total No of patients during study period 39 37 - No of patients who satisfied clinical inclusion criteria 23 34 - No of patients who satisfied clinical and EEG criteria 21 32 - Background slowing 19 32 - Generalized 12 18 0.2?? Only Focal ?7 14 - Only Fronto-temporal ?3 14 0.02? Extra-Frontotemporal ?4 ?0 0.02? Epileptiform discharges ?9 24 0.007 Generalised ?2 8 - Focal/Multifocal ?7 16 - Only Frontotemporal ?3 16 0.007 Extra-Frontotemporal ?4 ?0 0.02? PLEDs ?2 10 0.05? BiPLEDs ?0 4 0.12? Seizures ?1 ?7 0.08? Background slowing was seen (generalised  and 2 Center for Health Effectiveness Research, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: Prediction of cognitive function has been difficult in children with epilepsy, since cognitive dysfunction in epilepsy involves multiple causes. We determined whether occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness can independently predict cognitive function in children with focal epilepsy. Methods: A total of 33 children (age: 6?17 years; 20 boys) with focal epilepsy were included in the study. None of the subjects had visual, hearing, or motor deficits. Children with idiopathic childhood epilepsy with occipital paroxysms or central-temporal spikes were also excluded. Occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness with eye closure and interictal spike frequency during wakefulness were quantitatively measured by scalp EEG. Interictal spike frequency was categorized into four groups (0, 0?1, 1?10, and >10 per minute; Asano et al, 2004). A hierarchical multiple regression analysis was performed to determine whether age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency can predict the full-scale IQ independently from spike frequency category and the number of antiepileptic medications taken by the patient. Results: An analysis of the zero-order correlations revealed that each of the three predictors (age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency, spike frequency category and the number of anti-epileptic medications) is about equally correlated to full-scale IQ and each of these predictors accounted for 20%?23% of the variance (p < 0.01 for all three predictors). In a hierarchical multiple regression analysis, the categorical measure of spike frequency and the number of medications used were entered in the first step and accounted for 31% of the variance in the IQ measure (F(2, 30) = 6.77, p = 0.004). In a second step of the analysis the age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency was entered and accounted for an additional 13% of the variance (F(1, 29) = 6.49, p = 0.016). Conclusions: Occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness is an important factor independently predicting the full-scale IQ in children with focal epilepsy even after controlling for both interictal spike frequency and the number of anti-epileptic medications. Quantitative measurement of occipital alpha peak frequency and interictal spike frequency data extracted from a single video-EEG session combined with the number of antiepileptic drugs may provide important information for prognosis of overall cognitive function in children with focal epilepsy. (Supported by NIH: K23NS047550.) 1 Michelle J. Shapiro, 2 D. Barry Sinclair, and 3 S. Nizam Ahmed ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada ; 2 Department of Pediatric Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ; and 3 Department of Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Intermittent photic stimulation (IPS) is used routinely as an activation procedure for electroencephalographs (EEGs) in the pediatric population. Photosensitivity is relatively more prevalent in children than in adults. The purpose of this study was to determine the proportion of pediatric epilpetiform EEGs in which photic stimulation altered the overall impression of the EEG, thus adding additional information to the baseline. Methods: One hundred consecutive EEGs performed at the University of Alberta Hospital on patients 18 years or younger, that had unequivocal epileptiform abnormalities and activation by IPS were reviewed. Demographics including patient age, sex, clinical diagnosis, and reason for the EEG were collected. A determination was made as to whether IPS altered the overall impression of the EEG. Results: There were 62 males and 38 females. Forty-two patients were noted to have photic driving. Fifty patients had evidence of epileptic activity during photic stimulation, which was determined not to be linked to the stimulus. In 3 patients, there was epileptic activity during IPS with possibile association to the stimulus. In 3 patients IPS provided information not available otherwise. Out of these 3 patients, one had photosenstive Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy, the second had occipital spikes that generalized during IPS, and the third patient had evidence of occipital dominant spikes and polyspikes during IPS, a finding not seen on the baseline EEG. The finding of photosensitivity did not alter the management plan for any of these patients. Conclusions: This study demonstrates a prevalence of 3% photosensitivity amongst pediatric patients with known epileptic abnormalities on their EEG. These numbers are lower than those described by Wolf and Goosses (1), who reported a prevalence of 10%, in their review of of more than 1000 patients. The discrepancy could be related to the difference in sample size or merely to genetic heterogenity in the different samples. Interestingly all our photosensitive patients were females supporting the previously published literature on higher prevalence of photosensitivity in females. Considering the prevalence of photosensitivity in the epileptic population and the benign nature of the procedure, we support this activation procedure in routine practice. REFERENCE 1.?Wolf P, Goosses R. Relation of photosensitivity to epileptic syndromes. J Neruol Neruosurg Psychiat 1986;49: 1386?1391. 1 Ulrich Specht, 2 Matthias Hoppe, 1 Rupprecht Thorbecke, 2 Alois Ebner, and 1 Bernd Pohlmann-Eden ( 1 Rehabilitation Unit, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 2 EEG-Video-Department, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: The uncertainty of increased risks of seizure provocation due to conditions of the workplace is considered to contribute to the high rates of unemployment in patients with epilepsy. In Germany, the diagnosis of epilepsy frequently leads to restrictions concerning workplaces with computer monitor displays, even in patients without photosensitivity. Current knowledge about photosensitive patients does not give evidence for an increased risk of seizures in such a setting, e.g. because of the high refresh frequencies (≥75 Hz) of modern PC monitor displays; however studies with EEG registration in patients working at a PC monitor display have not been undertaken. Methods: Patients 16 years and older with a documented photoparoxysmal response (PPR), i.e. epileptiform EEG discharges (ED) provoked by intermittent photic stimulation (IPS), were included. They underwent a standardized EEG procedure with simultaneous video recording. It comprised three evaluation periods in randomized order, each lasting 10 minutes: 1) baseline period (resting condition), 2) PC-test period (reading and editing a text at a personal computer using a word processing program), 3) control period (reading and editing a similar text printed on a white paper). For the PC-test period, a commercially available personal computer with a 17 inches cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor display (resolution 800x600 dpi, refresh rate of 85 Hz) was used. The number and duration of ED during each of the evaluation periods were assessed by two blinded examiners. In addition, standard IPS was performed in order to document present PPR. Results: Sixteen patients were evaluated. During the procedure, four did not show PPR on IPS and thus were excluded. In 8 of the remaining 12 patients, ED occurred at least during one of the three evaluation periods. There was no statistical significant increase in number and duration of ED in the PC-test period compared to the control and baseline periods. ED tended to occur more frequently in the baseline period. No clinical seizure was recorded during the study. Conclusions: In accordance with the current literature using IPS, this study does not give evidence for an increased risk of seizure precipitation in photosensitive patients when using a word processing program displayed on a commercially available 17?? CRT PC monitor display. Thus, restrictions concerning workplaces with computer monitor displays such as office work are not warranted. (Supported by UCB Pharma GMBH, Kerpen, Germany.) 1 Ian A. Stein, and 1 Geetha Chari ( 1 Neurology, SUNY-Health Science Centers of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, NY ) Rationale: To characterize EEG abnormalities found on EEGs of pediatric psychiatric inpatients. Methods: A retrospective analysis of all EEGs ordered by the Kings County Hospital Center inpatient pediatric psychiatric unit between July 2000 and December 2004 was performed. EEGs were performed using the guidelines of the ACNS. Clinical information was restricted to the history provided on the EEG request forms. The EEGs were interpreted by a neurologist board certified in clinical neurophysiology. Reports were written according to ACNS guidelines. The results of this study were obtained by analyzing information from these reports Results: Between January 2000 and December 2004 a total of 411 EEGs were performed on patient admitted to the pediatric psychiatry service at Kings County Hospital. 24 patients had repeat studies. 387 EEGs were included into the analysis. There were 282 males and 105 females. The age of patients ranged between 5 and 17 years, with an average age of 11.5 years. 134 patients (35%) had abnormal EEGs 93 patients had a non-epileptiform abnormality (e.g. background slowing, focal slowing) alone, while 26 patients had only epileptiform activity. 20 patients had both epileptiform and non-epileptiform abnormalities. Of the 46 (11.9%) patients with epileptiform activity, 26 patients had focal discharges, and 18 patients had generalized discharges. 2 patients had both focal and generalized activity. Conclusions: There is a greater incidence of EEG abnormalities in our study when compared with previously published data on normal children. While the rates of abnormal EEG findings in our population were similar to those seen in the adult psychiatric patients, epileptiform activity was more frequent in pediatric patients. Further studies are required to determine the clinical significance of these findings. (Supported by SUNY-Health Sciences Center of Brooklyn, Department of Neurology.) 1 James X. Tao, 1 Amit Ray, 1 Baldwin Maria, 1 Sona Shah, 1 Susan Hawes-Ebersole, and 1 John S. Ebersole ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: To determine the cerebral EEG substrates of scalp EEG seizure patterns, and thus to assess the value of scalp ictal recording in the lateralization and localization of seizure onset zones in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: We recorded simultaneously 26 channels of scalp EEG with sub-temporal supplementary electrodes and 46?98 channels of intracranial EEG in presurgical candidates with temporal lobe epilepsy. Subdural electrodes covered the anterior two-thirds of the temporal lobe in all patients. We studied the influence of intracranial EEG source area and synchrony at seizure onset on corresponding scalp EEG correlates. Eighty-six simultaneous intracranial- and scalp-recorded seizures from 23 patients were evaluated. Results: Thirty-four intracranial ictal discharges (40%) from 9 patients (39%) had sufficient source area (namely > 10 cm2) and synchrony at seizure onset to produce a nearly simultaneous focal scalp EEG ictal pattern. Forty-one intracranial ictal discharges (48%) from 10 patients (43%) gradually achieved the necessary source area and synchrony over several seconds to generate a scalp EEG ictal pattern. These scalp rhythms were lateralized, but less localizable. Eleven intracranial ictal discharges (13%) from 4 patients (17%) recruited the necessary source area, but lacked sufficient synchrony to generate clearly localized or lateralized scalp EEG ictal patterns. Conclusions: Sufficient source area and synchrony are mandatory cerebral EEG substrates for generating scalp-recordable ictal EEG patterns. When the necessary source area and synchrony are achieved at or near seizure onset, the scalp EEG pattern can localize the cerebral seizure onset zone. However, if achieving necessary source area and synchrony requires several seconds, during which time more distant propagation may occur, the resultant scalp ictal pattern may only lateralize, but not localize, the seizure onset zone. (Supported by Brain Research Fundation.) 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2,3 Don M. Tucker, 2 Micah Brown, 1,4 Russell P. Saneto, and 5 Jeffrey G. Ojemann ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesics, Inc., Eugene, OR ; 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ; 4 Division Pediatric Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 5 Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: We describe a case report of a subject with intractable extratemporal epilepsy who underwent pre-operative longterm EEG-video monitoring (LTM) with 128 channel scalp recordings, following completion of standard (sparse array) LTM. She underwent subdural, intracranial grid and strip LTM recordings, after standard methods failed to provide adequate seizure localization. We compare the results of seizure onsets predicted on the basis of dense array scalp EEG to that obtained from the invasive recordings. Methods: A 13 year old girl, a potential surgical candidate, presented with medically refractory daily complex partial seizures. Clinical exam and MRI studies were unrevealing. Standard EEGs demonstrated abundant interictal discharges over left posterior quadrant, particularly over left parietal regions (P3). Standard scalp LTM recorded seizures that were poorly localized over the left posterior quadrant. One of her habitual clinical seizures was captured during 48 hours of dense array LTM. Using a linear inverse method of EEG source analysis (LAURA), seizure onset and propagation patterns were displayed on a standard MRI model, prior to invasive studies. Invasive LTM studies included subdural grid and strips placed over the left, and subdural strips placed over the right, posterior quadrants. Results: Analysis of dense array data predicted that seizure onset occurred over the left inferior posterior temporal-occipital regions, followed by rapid spread to right lateral posterior temporal cortex, left lateral posterior temporal cortex, and subsequently to the left superior parietal region. These predictions, including both seizure onset and propagation patterns, were confirmed on analysis of invasive ictal EEG recordings. Surgical resection was performed, based on the invasive EEG data. Conclusions: Dense array EEG, used in conjunction with source analysis and a realistic MRI model, has the potential to localize seizure onsets and propagation patterns, when standard noninvasive methods fail. This is the first report demonstrating that dense array LTM studies are possible, and that predictions based on these studies are confirmed on the basis of intracranial EEG recordings. Future research will determine if the use of these new techniques will reduce the need for invasive LTM in the surgical evaluation of subjects with difficult epilepsy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lionte, Catalina
AU  - Sorodoc, Victorita
AU  - Bologa, Cristina
AU  - Tuchilus, Cristina
AU  - Jaba, Elisabeta
TI  - Usefulness of Transthoracic Echocardiography Parameters and Brain Natriuretic Peptide as Mortality Predictors in Hospitalized Acutely Poisoned Patients: A Prospective Observational Study
JO  - Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology
JA  - Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol
VL  - 120
IS  - 5
SN  - 1742-7835
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bcpt.12711
DO  - doi:10.1111/bcpt.12711
SP  - 498
EP  - 504
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Acute poisonings represent a common cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The prognostic utility of the transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) parameters combined with brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in acute poisoning with different xenobiotics, upon admission in the hospital, was not evaluated. This prospective observational cohort study included 229 acutely poisoned non-diabetic adults, with a median age of 44 years (range 18?90 years), 50.7% women, with an in-hospital mortality rate of 8.7%. Univariate logistic regression analysis showed that age, the left ventricle kinetic abnormalities, the E-wave deceleration time (EDT) and BNP correlated significantly with mortality in acutely poisoned patients. Multivariate logistic regression showed that only EDT [odds ratio (OR) 3.44, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.54?7.69, p 0.003], BNP (OR 1.61, 95% CI: 1.02?2.55, p 0.04) and age (OR 2.66, 95% CI: 1.23?5.76, p 0.013) are predictive for mortality. The receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis proved EDT [area under the ROC curve (AUC), 0.85; CI: 0.76?0.94; p 0.001], BNP (AUC, 0.83; CI: 0.75?0.91; p 0.001) and age (AUC, 0.82; CI: 0.74?0.90; p 0.001) as indicators for fatalities. In hospitalized patients acutely intoxicated with undifferentiated poisons, EDT as a parameter of left ventricle diastolic function and BNP are useful to early predict mortality.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Neuropsychology/Language/Behavior: Adult
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_9.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_9.x
SP  - 59
EP  - 74
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Carla C. Adda, 2 Luiz H. Castro, and 1 Rosa Kashiara ( 1 Division of Psychology, Hospital das Clinicas FMUSP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Traditional neuropsychological testing may fail to detect abnormalities in declarative memory tests in epileptic patients. One possible explanation is that such tests do not adequately measure memory in real life activities. Prospective memory (PM), i.e. cognitive abilities related to remembering a planned intention in the correct setting, may be a more ecological measurement of memory function in daily activities. We studied the performance of patients with left and right mesial temporal sclerosis and normal controls in a prospective memory battery and compared results with performance in the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) and with a self assessment questionaire for memory impairment (QMI). Methods: The battery consisted of six time and event related tasks to be recalled in the adequate situation, such as remembering to tell the examiner that they needed a new prescrition after fifteen minutes and remembering to ask for an personal object taken by the examiner at the end of a 105 minute session.Patients were submitted a neuropsychological test battery during the session, including the RAVLT and were asked to fill the QMI (24 items). Spontaneous and cued recall of the 15 RAVLT words was tested after 7 days. Performance in the PM tests was compared to RAVLT scores and to QMI score. A patient was considered impaired in either MP or RAVLT if performance fell below 2SD of controls. Significant memory compaints were considered if QMI score was 1SD above controls. Sensitivities and specificities for impairment measured by PM and RAVLT were calculated in relation to QMI assessed impairment (gold standard). Results: We studied 28 patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) (17 left) and 18 normal controls, matched by age (38±10 vs 40±12 yrs) and education (11±2 vs 11±2)(age 40 ±2). Left MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in PM and spontaneous recall and in QMI score (p < 0.05). Both left and right MTS performed significantly worse than controls in 7-day cued recall (p < 0.05). Sensitivities in relation to QMI were 56.2% for PM, 50% for RAVLT, 37.5% RAVLT and PM and 68,8% for RAVLT or PM. Specificities were 100% for PM, 83.3% for RAVLT, 100% for RAVLT and PM and 91.6% for PM or RAVLT measured impairment. Conclusions: This prospective memory test was able to differentiate memory performance between left MTS patients and controls. It is has a better specificity than RAVLT in relation to a self assessment memory questionaire. Its sensitivity is increased when used in combination with RAVLT. Further studies should better delineate its use in combination with other tests in the assessment of memory dysfunction in epileptic patients and in patients with memory impairment of other etiologies. 1 Judith Butman, 2 Maria E. Fontela, 2,3 Veronica De Simone, 3 Marina Drake, 1 Cecilia Serrano, 2 Maria B. Viaggio, 2,3 Alfredo Thomson, and 1,3 Ricardo F. Allegri ( 1 Memory Center, Department of Neurolgy, Hospital Zubizarreta, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; 2 Epilepsy Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; and 3 Neuropsychology Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Britanico, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: It has been proposed that behavioral impairment in patients with amygdala dysfunction might be related to an inability to reverse their behavior despite receiving negative feedback. Epileptic patients who undergo anterior temporal lobectomy represent an ?in vivo? model to study the role of amygdala in cognitive flexibility. The aim of this study is to evaluate cognitive flexibility in epileptic patients with amygdala resection when facing negative feedback. Methods: Ten epileptic patients who underwent anterior temporal lobectomy (6 left temporal lobectomy and 4 right temporal lobectomy) were matched for age and education with 10 healthy controls. Subjects underwent an extensive neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric evaluation. To asses cognitive flexibility we used a reversal ?learning task. Results: Patients' mean and standard deviation score were: Beck depression Inventory 8 ± 1.5; PANSS (positive) 10 ± 1.3; PANSS (negative) 14 ± 2.2; PANSS total 28.3 ± 2; verbal IQ 104.2 ± 7, nonverbal IQ 97.2 ± 6, full scale IQ 101.4 ± 6.3. Categories achieved on Wisconsin Card Sorting Test 5.7 ± 0.16. Patients had less number of reversions (mean:9.3) compared to controls (mean: 4.23; p < 0.001), and needed more trials before the first reversion (patients: 23.42 vs controls: 5; p < 0.05). Conclusions: Patients with epilepsy who undergo anterior temporal lobectomy appear to have post operative difficulties to perform a learning-reversal task. Their lack of cognitive flexibility cannot be explained by psychiatric comorbidity, low IQs or a dysexecutive syndrome. 1 Gus A. Baker ( 1 Division of Neurosciences, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom ) Rationale: There is a wealth of evidence to suggest that people with epilepsy, when compared to normal controls, are much more likely to experience a range of neuropsychological impairments. There are a number of factor that have been linked to the causation of these effects including the underlying lesion, the effects of continuous seizures, the sedative effects of AED treatment and the impact of mood. Determining the relative contributions of these various factors has been difficult but previous studies have confirmed cognitive side effects of several antiepileptic drugs such as central slowing, motor slowing and impairment of attention and concentration. The SANAD trial, a randomised controlled clinical trial of standard versus novel antiepileptic drug treatment, represents a unique opportunity to study the natural history of cognitive impairment in patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy who havge yet to be exposed to AED treatment and who have expereinced few seizures. Methods: A standardised battery of neuropsychological tests including measures of psychomotor speed, attention, memory, mental flexibility, tracking tasks, higher executive functioning, mood and patient perceived cognitive effects were administered prior to AED treatment, 3 months and 12 months. Results: There were differences between the epilepsy group and published control data for a number of key domains including: immediate, delayed and recognition memory; new learning; tests of higher executive functioning; sustained attention; and motor speed. These differences were significant at p = 0.001 level. In addition patients also had significantly worse profiles on the profile of mood scale. Conclusions: These results highlight that newly diagnosed patients with epilepsy are already significantly compromised in terms of their neuropsychological and psychological functioning prior to starting AED treatment and exposure to a significant number of seizures. This study will provide and opportunity to study the development of these cognitive effects allowing for treatment and seizure history. It will also allow for the identification of individuals most at risk of developing signficant cognitive difficulties. (Supported by the following pharmaceutical companies: GlaxoSmithKline, Novatis, Jansen Cilag and Sanofi Synthelabo.) 1 William B. Barr, 2 Essie Larson, 1 Kenneth Alper, and 1 Orrin Devinsky ( 1 NYU Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Psychology, Fordham University, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: The Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory ? 2 (MMPI-2) is an objective, self-report instrument that is used frequently to examine personality and psychopathology in patients with epilepsy. One advantage of this test is that it provides validity indicators useful for identifying biases in responding that could potentially invalidate its results. The goal of this study is to examine the rates of invalid MMPI-2 profiles in a sample of patients undergoing VEEG monitoring for the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy. Methods: MMPI-2 profiles were obtained from 126 patients undergoing continuous inpatient VEEG monitoring. The mean age of the sample was 37.1 years (range, 17 to 74 years). The sex distribution was 74.6% female. Non-epileptic seizures (NES group) were identified in 75 patients. Fifty-one patients had VEEG findings indicating partial (n = 30) or generalized (n = 21) epilepsy (ES group). The groups were matched in terms of age, education, and IQ. The NES group had a higher proportion of females (87% vs. 57%, p < .01). All subjects completed the 567-item version of the MMPI-2. Analyses were conducted on standard validity indices, including the L, F, and K-scales, as well as the consistency indices, VRIN and TRIN. We also examined two other validity measures, the Fp-scale and the FBS-scale. The former was developed for assessment of rarely endorsed symptoms in populations with high rates of psychopathology. The latter (FBS, Fake-Bad-Scale) is used for measuring reporting bias in injury claimants attempting to exaggerate symptoms while maintaining a socially desirable appearance. Rates of invalid responding, as defined by scores exceeding published cutoffs, were assessed through standard tests of proportions. Results: Invalid MMPI-2 profiles were identified in 43.6% of the total sample. A significantly higher rate of invalid responding was observed in the NES group than in the ES group (53.3% vs. 29.4%, p < .001). Invalid profiles were obtained in only 18.6% of the NES group and 17.6% of the ES group when limited to analysis of conventional validity indices (e.g., L, F, K, VRIN,  Chi-Square, NS). None of the 126 subjects participating in this study exhibited an elevation of the Fp-Scale. Elevations of the FBS-Scale were observed in 44.0% of the NES group and in 21.6% of the ES group (p < .001). Conclusions: Over 40% of our sample produced invalid MMPI-2 profiles, which raises concern about the prevalent use of the instrument in this population. Rates of invalid responding in the NES and ES groups were the same when identified through standard validity indices. Higher rates of invalid responding observed with the FBS-Scale indicate that patients with NES are twice as likely to produce exaggerated test profiles than patients diagnosed with partial or generalized epilepsy. 1 Brian D. Bell, and 1 Bruce P. Hermann ( 1 Neurology/Neuropsychology, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison, WI ) Rationale: Conventional memory assessment might fail to identify memory dysfunction that is characterized by intact recall for a relatively brief period, but rapid forgetting thereafter. A recent study of auditory and visual selective reminding test performance revealed that temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients demonstrated poorer memory ability than controls, but there were no group differences in rate of information loss at the 30-minute and 24-hour delay trials (Bell et al., 2005). In addition, at the individual level of analysis accelerated forgetting over 24 hours was not more common in TLE patients compared to controls. Methods: In this study, we assessed Wechsler Memory Scale-3rd ed. (WMS-III) Logical Memory subtest (LM) performance, including immediate memory and recall after 30-minute and 14-day delays, in a control group (n = 25) and a group of individuals with TLE (n = 25). The mean age of epilepsy onset was 11 years (SD = 8). Individuals with a history of right, left, bilateral or indeterminate TLE laterality were included and five of the TLE patients had undergone a left anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) at the time of this study. The results described below were unchanged when the ATL patients were excluded. Results: Group analysis: A 2 X 3 (Group X Trial) univariate ANOVA for LM free recall raw scores revealed main effects of group and trial, but no significant group X trial interaction effect. T tests revealed that the control group performed significantly better than the TLE group on the immediate, 30-minute delay, and 14-day delay trials. Individual analysis: Memory impairment was defined as a score ≥ 1 standard deviation below the control group mean. Examination of raw scores revealed that the TLE group had a significantly higher percentage of individuals with impairment at the immediate and 30-minute delay trials, but not at the 14-day delay. Moreover, none of the TLE patients versus three controls (12%) showed memory impairment solely at the 14-day trial. When examining percent retention scores, only 4% of the individuals with TLE versus 20% of the controls were unimpaired after 30 minutes but impaired after 14 days. Conclusions: Accelerated forgetting over a 14-day delay was not present on a widely used story memory test (WMS-III LM) in a group of individuals with TLE. This evidence suggests that the conventional 30-minute delay utilized in clinical neuropsychological evaluations typically is sufficient for measuring memory functioning in TLE patients. Future study of word list retention after a delay of weeks in subsets of TLE patients with clearly lateralized seizures would further test this hypothesis. (Supported by NIH grants NS 37738, NS 42251, and MO1 RR03186 (General Clinical Research Center).) 1 Patient characteristics Patient 1 Patient 2 Age of sz onset 17 14 Age at WADA 43 41 Handedness right right Yrs of education 13 12 Previous surgery right anterior temporal lobectomy left anterior temporal lobectomy Current sz localization right frontal left temporal 1 Donald B. Burton, 1 Pradeep Modur, 1 Rebecca Woods, 1 Edgar Pererra, and 1 Mike Gruenthal ( 1 Neurology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: WADA testing is a standard part of the work-up for epilepsy surgery, and assesses the likelihood of new post-surgical language/memory deficits. We present the WADA results of two patients who had undergone anterior temporal lobectomy, but who had not been evaluated using the WADA. To our knowledge the results of WADA testing in patients who have already undergone anterior temporal-hippocampal resection has not been previously reported. These cases allow for a comparison of the following conditions in regards to memory function: dominant hippocampus, nondominant hippocampus, and no hippocampus. Methods: Our WADA procedure includes a mental status exam, memory acquisition, sequential language testing, and memory recognition. The demographic and surgical data of our cases is detailed in Table 1. Patient 1 had previously undergone a right anterior temporal lobectomy and patient 2 had a left anterior temporal lobectomy. Neither surgery resulted in seizure control, necessitating a new surgical work-up. Results: Results reveal that both patients are left hemisphere dominant for language. The right hemisphere resection patient did not sustain a disruption in memory function as the result of right hemisphere injection, while injection of the dominant hemisphere disrupted memory. In contrast, the left hemisphere resection case displayed more functional memory deficit after nondominant hemisphere injection, while injection of both hemispheres suppressed memory compared to baseline. Figure 1 reveals that the no hippocampus condition resulted in total suppression of memory function for both cases. When the dominant hippocampus was functioning in isolation no disruption of memory function was noted compared to baseline. When the nondominant hippocampus was functioning in isolation memory function was significantly diminished, but not completely suppressed. Conclusions: Current results support the hypotheses that there can be a dominance for memory function that is not solely based on material specificity. Second, resection of the dominant hippocampus results in greater memory impairment compared to resection of the nondominant hippocampus. Third, current results suggest that the nondominant hippocampus can support memory function to an extent, although not at the level of the dominant hippocampus. Finally, our results highlight the need for a comprehensive presurgical work-up. 1 [Memory Assesment: collapsed across cases (% of targets recongnized correctly).] 1 Robyn M. Busch, 1 Heather D. Stott, 1 Thomas W. Frazier, 1 Richard I. Naugle, 2 Imad Najm, and 3 William Bingaman ( 1 Psychiatry  2 Neurology, Epilepsy  and 3 Neurosurgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) have higher rates of depression and anxiety than patients with other focal epilepsies or generalized seizures. Memory problems are common among patients with mood and anxiety disorders as well as among patients with TLE. Given the high prevalence of mood and anxiety disorders and memory problems in patients with TLE, the present study sought to determine if presurgical mood and anxiety scores are useful in predicting memory change following anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) and to ascertain if these scores have incremental validity over presurgical memory and intelligence scores. Methods: This retrospective study examined data from 174 patients with medically intractable TLE (Left = 79; Right = 95) seen for neuropsychological evaluations that included: Depression, Anxiety, Anxiety Related Disorders (ARD), and Mania subscales of the Personality Assessment Inventory; Beck Depression Inventory-II; General Memory Index (GENMEM) from the Wechsler Memory Scale-3rd Edition; and Full Scale IQ (FSIQ) from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-3rd Edition. All patients later underwent ATL for treatment of their epilepsy and completed postsurgical neuropsychological testing. Participants' mean age and education were 34.25 (SD = 11.51) and 12.84 (SD = 2.11), respectively. The mean age of seizure onset was 14.92 (SD = 12.25) and mean duration of seizures was 19.49 years (SD = 12.59). There were no significant differences between the left and right groups in terms of age, race, sex, education, age of seizure onset, or seizure duration. Results: Simple regression analyses were conducted with mood and anxiety as independent variables (IVs) and memory change score as the dependent variable (DV). A hierarchical regression analysis was then computed with presurgical GENMEM and FSIQ scores entered as IVs in step one, the five mood variables in step two, and GENMEM change as the DV. Regression analyses were conducted separately for left and right TLE patients. Results of the simple regression revealed that presurgical mood and anxiety scores were significant predictors of postsurgical change in GENMEM for left TLE but not right TLE patients. Of the mood variables, the ARD subscale made the largest contribution to the prediction. Similarly, hierarchical regression analyses demonstrated that mood and anxiety scores added significantly to the prediction of GENMEM change above and beyond the prediction made by presurgical GENMEM and FSIQ scores among left but not right TLE patients. Again, ARD made the largest contribution to this prediction. Conclusions: This study supports the clinical utility of presurgical mood and anxiety scores in predicting memory change following ATL in patients with left, but not right, TLE. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that mood and anxiety scores add significantly to the prediction of postsurgical memory change beyond the prediction made by presurgical memory scores. 1 Juliana P. DaPaz, 1 Carla C. Adda, 1 Leila M. DaRoz, 1 Leandro L. Valiengo, 1 Carmen L. Jorge, 1 Rosa Maria F. Valerio, 1 Rosa Kashiara, and 1 Luiz Henrique M. Castro ( 1 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Material specific memory deficits are often seen in temporal lobe epilepsy. Patients show verbal learning and confrontation naming deficits. These data were obtained lateralizing patients exclusively by MRI or interictal EEG (iEEG) data. Unilateral mesial temporal sclerosis (uMTS) is often a bilateral disease, with contralateral EEG abnormalities, which may impact on cognitive functioning. We compared neuropsychological scores (NP) in pure unilateral and bilateral uMTS patients. Methods: MRI-diagnosed uMTS, ages (17?55), education >8 yrs, without other MRI lesions or significant psychiatric/neurologic disease. Patients underwent video-EEG monitoring (VEEG), iEEG, WADA test and a NP battery [digit span, vocabulary and object assembly subtests (WAIS III), Stroop I,II,III, Trail Making Test, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), Boston Naming Test (BNT), Verbal Fluency (FAS), Rey Figure (Immediate and Late Recall)]. Patients were divided in four groups: right and left, unilateral or bilateral (RU, LU, RB and LB) by a laterality index obtained from a summated score of iEEG, VEEG and WADA, compared to MRI findings. Normal controls were matched by age and education. Scores on individual neuriopsychological tests were compared among all groups and controls. Results: 54 patients (30 or 56% men), 29 (or 54%) left MTS, education (10.6 ± 2.1yrs.) and 18 controls (4 or 22% men) education (11.1 ± 1.1yrs). 13 were RU, 20 LU, 12 RB and 9 LB.When comparing neuropsychological scores using MRI or iEEG isolatedly, classified as left or right, left MTS patients performed significantly worse in RAVLT (VI, VII and total score) and in FAS than controls and worse than controls and right MTS in BNT (p < 0.05, all tests) for both MRI or iEEG. When the 4 groups were compared, RU and LU differences disappeared. BL patients performed significantly worse than controls in RAVLT (VI, VII, total score), worse than controls, LU and RB in Stroop II and than RU in BNT. (p < 0.05, all tests). When iEEG was analyzed among the four groups, BL patients performed significantly worse than controls in RAVLT (VI, VII and total score) and worse than BR in BNT. Conclusions: Although it is widely accepted that left MTS patients show deficits in verbal learning and recall as well as confrontation naming, our data suggests that only patients with left MTS on MRI, but with bilateral involvement by other eletrophysiologic criteria (VEEG and iEEG) and cognitive functioning measures (WADA) perform significantly worse in episodic verbal memory and confrontation naming tasks. In this sample, pure left MTS patients do not show cognitive impairment in relation to right MTS patients (unilateral and bilateral) or controls. Bilateral temporal involvement with anatomic and/or functional involvement may be crucial for memory dysfunction in left temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Marina Drake, 2,1 Veronica De Simone, 2 Santiago O'Neill, 2 Maria E. Fontela, 2 Maria B. Viaggio, 2 Alfredo Thomson, and 1 Ricardo F. Allegri ( 1 Neuropsychology Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Britanico, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; and 2 Epilepsy Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) show impairment in confrontation naming tasks. Furthermore naming difficulties have been related to left temporal dysfunction. The objective of this study is to characterize naming difficulties in a group of temporal epileptic patients and further compare naming abilities between patients with right and left temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: Thirty three epileptic patients were matched for age and education with 31 healthy volunteers. Fourteen patients had left TLE epilepsy and nineteen right TLE. All patients were right handed with IQs within the normal range. All subjects were administered an extensive neuropsychological battery. Confrontation naming was explored using the Boston Naming Test adapted version for Argentina. Total number of correct responses and type of errors committed were analyzed. Errors were classified into 5 categories: semantic errors, phonemic errors, visual errors, circumlocutory errors or nonresponse. For analysis purposes only the first 40 naming errors were considered as previous local studies showed that naming deficits in the last 20 pictures is strongly influenced by education and cultural background. Results: The epilepsy group performed significantly worse than controls on a naming test (TLE = 46 ± 6 vs controls = 53 ± 2, p < 0.001). Type of errors were: 42% semantic, 32% nonresponses, 13% circumlocutory, 9% visual and only 1% phonemic errors. No naming differences were found between right and left TLE patients (p = 0.7). Conclusions: Temporal lobe epilepsy patients showed poor performance on a naming task compared to control subjects further supporting the language deficit observed in this population. The most common type of errors (anomia and semantic) reflect dysfunction of the semantic system. Surprisingly, no differences were found when right and left temporal epilepsy patients were compared. This finding might reflect functional reorganization of language-related neuronal networks in temporal lobe epilepsy. 1 Jelena Djordjevic, 1 Viviane Sziklas, 1 Dominique Piper, 1 Sidonie Penicaud, and 1 Marilyn Jones-Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University ) Rationale: Auditory naming tasks may be more appropriate than visual ones as a measure of potential word-finding difficulties in patients who are candidates for resection from the dominant anterior temporal lobe (1). We wished to optimize clinical usefulness of the existing auditory naming task (ANT) by creating a French version that would yield results similar to those obtained in English, and by increasing the number of items so that auditory naming results could be compared more directly with those from visual naming. Methods: To facilitate a more direct comparison of auditory naming with the visual naming task used most commonly (Boston Naming Test; BNT), we increased the number of items on the existing auditory naming task from 50 to 69 by adding 19 new items, then testing 119 healthy volunteers (53 francophone, 66 anglophone) on this longer version, and finally keeping the 60 items that gave the clearest results (i.e., elicited greatest agreement, fewest synonyms). To maximize equivalence between English and French versions, we compared results from anglophone and francophone subjects for each item, rejecting those on which language-group differences were greater than 25%. These normative data were then used to rearrange items in order of increasing difficulty separately in each language. We are now comparing performance on the revised ANT to BNT in patients (n = 20) with epileptic focus in a temporal lobe. Results: Comparison of mean correct responses on the 60-item ANT with those from the BNT showed a small, in absolute terms, but significant (p < .01) difference between tasks for healthy subjects, with BNT yielding the higher scores. There was a main effect of language, showing higher English than French scores on both tasks (p < .01). Patients with a left temporal-lobe focus earned lower scores on both naming tasks compared to those with a right temporal-lobe focus (p = .03); again ANT scores were lower overall than BNT scores. Conclusions: As reported also for the 50-item ANT (1), auditory naming remains more difficult than visual naming for healthy subjects. Thus, despite equating the ANT and BNT for number of items, scores cannot be compared directly, as the difference in difficulty should be taken into account. Our French version of the ANT yields scores that are highly similar to the English, although the French are slightly lower. The French ANT is already proving useful in language evaluation of francophone patients in Quebec. 1. Hamberger M, Seidel W. JINS (2003); 9:479?89. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Robert C. Doss, and 1,2 John R. Gates ( 1 Epilepsy, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, P.A., St. Paul, MN ; and 2 Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: The assessment and diagnosis of psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (NES) in inpatient epilepsy programs is very common (20?50% of admissions). The underlying etiology of NES can reflect a variety of conditions as denoted by the DSM-IV. The aim of this study was to determine the most common psychiatric diagnoses of NES in a comprehensively evaluated sample of patients. Methods: The sample consisted of 58 consecutive admissions to the adult inpatient epilepsy unit who were eventually diagnosed with NES via video-EEG monitoring. The determination of a psychogenic etiology was made after ruling out physiological causes, history review, neuropsychological and personality assessment (i.e., PAI), as well as psychiatric and/or psychological consultation. DSM-IV diagnoses were made by either a consulting psychiatrist or psychologist. Results: There were 58 NES patients (67% female) with an average age, education, and WAIS-III Full Scale IQ of 36.5, 13.2, and 94.0, respectively. Personality testing using the PAI showed a clinical elevation on the Somatic Complaints scale (Mean T-score = 70.0) with Conversion being the most elevated subscale in the profile (Mean T-score = 71.0). The most common preexisting psychiatric diagnoses included Depression (50%), PTSD (13.8%), other Anxiety (17.2%), Somatoform (13.8%), and Substance Abuse/Dependence (12.1%). Sixty-five percent (65%) of the sample reported a history of physical and/or sexual abuse. The final DSM-IV diagnosis for the NES was overwhelmingly Conversion Disorder (74.1%) and Somatoform Disorder NOS (8.6%). The remaining diagnoses for the NES included various anxiety, dissociative, and factitious disorders (17.3%). Conclusions: In an inpatient epilepsy monitoring unit, the vast majority of NES cases confirmed by video-EEG are diagnosed as Conversion Disorder according to DSM-IV criteria. That is, the NES are thought to reflect psychological factors (unconscious or not) that are manifested by pseudoneurological symptoms or deficits. Other less common diagnoses include panic attacks and dissociation associated with PTSD and/or a primary dissociative disorder. An accurate psychiatric diagnosis of NES is important in that treatment will necessarily be dictated by the underlying psychological disorder. Furthermore, diagnostic accuracy relies on a multidisciplinary approach that considers both the patient's medical and psychosocial history and current functioning. 1,5 Mario F. Dulay, 1,2,5 Harvey S. Levin, 1,2,5 Michele K. York, 2,5 Daniel Yoshor, 3 Robert G. Grossman, 4,5 Amit Verma, 4,5 Ian L. Goldsmith, and 4,5,6 Eli M. Mizrahi ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) ; 2 Department of Neurosurgery, BCM ; 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Methodist Hospital ; 4 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, BCM ; 5 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, BCM ; and 6 Section of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, BCM ) Rationale: Depression and anxiety are the most common psychiatric disorders found in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) before and after anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL). Severity of depression is associated with neuropsychological impairment in TLE patients. No previous study has characterized the relationship between the presence of depression/anxiety and changes in memory function after ATL. Methods: We studied 56 patients (ages 17?56 years) who underwent ATL for refractory epilepsy. Patient data were divided into four groups: left-ATL with (n = 10) and without (n = 13) psychiatric disturbance and right-ATL with (n = 17) and without (n = 16) psychiatric disturbance. There were no significant differences between groups in age, education, age at seizure onset, duration of illness, pre-ATL seizure frequency and post-ATL seizure outcome. Retrospective chart review was used to determine the presence of psychiatric disturbance (mood and anxiety disorders), which was based on recommendations for psychiatric treatment after ATL made by the attending neuropsychologist. Patients were included if they had an IQ >84 to ensure that memory deficit was not attributable to generalized cognitive impairment. Memory abilities were assessed an average of 5 months before surgery and an average of 11 months after surgery using the Verbal and Nonverbal Selective Reminding Tests. Results: Twenty-seven patients (48% of the sample) received recommendations for psychiatric treatment after surgery: 13 for mood disorders, 2 for anxiety disorders, and 12 for comorbid mood and anxiety disorders. Repeated measures ANOVA indicated that left-ATL patients with psychiatric disturbance had the largest verbal memory reductions from before to after surgery compared to all other groups (Tukey post-hoc p values <.01). There was also a drop in the number of words recalled by left-ATL patients without psychiatric disturbance, but the reduction was significantly greater for left-ATL patients with psychiatric disturbance. On the other hand, there was slight improvement in verbal recall ability for right-ATL patients after surgery regardless of psychiatric status. There were no significant interactions or main effects for nonverbal memory. Conclusions: Our results suggest that besides side of excision, the presence of depression and anxiety should be taken into account when evaluating verbal memory deficits after ATL. Questions remain regarding whether or not verbal memory deficits will improve after ATL if psychiatric symptoms are remediated with psychotherapeutic or psychopharmaceutic interventions. 1 Darren Fuerst, 1 Adele Haber, 1 Michelle Kieski, 1 Jay Shah, 1 Aashit Shah, and 1 Craig Watson ( 1 Neurology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: List learning has generally been less useful for the localization of temporal lobe seizures than has story recall. It has been hypothesized that executive functions may play a role in the learning, recall, and recognition of word lists. The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which list learning and executive functioning measures are correlated. Methods: A total of 161 subjects took part in the study. Of these, 74 subjects were left temporal lobe epileptics, 55 were right temporal lobe epileptics, and 32 subjects had bi-temporal onset or could not be lateralized by EEG. The word list learning measure used in this study was the CVLT. The variables used from the CVLT were the z-scores of the number of words recalled on Trials 1, 5, and 1?5 total, short delay free and cued recall, long delayed free and cued recall, number of hits and false positives on recognition testing, number of perseverations, semantic clustering, and serial clustering. Executive functioning measures consisted of the Trail Making Testing B, lexical fluency (CFL), and measures from the Wisconsin Card Sort Test, including total responses, total correct, total errors, perseverative responses, perseverative errors, and the number of categories completed. Results: Overall, in the entire sample only Trails B reached statistical and practical significance its relationship with Trials 1, 5, and total 1?5, short delay free recall, short delay cued recall, and long delay free recall. None of the other measures correlated significantly and substantially. When subjects were divided into long delay free recall greater or less than -2, the only correlation of significance was between Trails B and total 1?5, for each group. When left temporal onset patients were examined, only Trails B correlated with trials 1, 5, and 1?5 total, and long delay free recall. For right temporal patients, Trails B correlated with Trials 1?5, short delay free and cued, and long delay free and cued recall. Also, for these subjects a number of WCST measures correlated with these variables. Conclusions: In general, word list learning is not related to executive functioning in temporal lobe epilepsy. This conclusion may be tempered somewhat in right temporal lobe patients, in which the relationship deserves further study. 1 Anna R. Giovagnoli, 2 Rute F. Meneses, and 1 Antonio Martins Da Silva ( 1 Neuropathology and Neurology, ?Carlo Besta? National Neurological Institute, Milano, Italy ; 2 FCHS-Fernando Pessoa University and IBCM-University of Porto, Porto, Portugal ; and 3 ICBAS/IBCM-University of Porto and Hospital Geral Santo Antonio, Porto, Portugal ) Rationale: Although the quality of life (QOL) of patients with chronic brain damage may reflect common stressing conditions, different facets and determinants may characterize the QOL of patients with different diagnosis. This study evaluated patients with partial epilepsy aiming to compare personal dimensions of their QOL with respect to patients with other chronic brain diseases. Methods: Sixty-four adult patients with partial epilepsy (n = 36) and other chronic neurological diseases associated with brain lesion (vascular, tumour, or inflammatory) (n = 28) were evaluated after informed consent. They reported self-evaluation of QOL, mood and cognitive efficiency using the WHO QOL-100 and Spiritual, Religious and Personal Beliefs scales, Beck Depression Inventory, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, and Multiple Ability Self-Report Questionnaire. Neuropsychological tests assessed reasoning, attention, language, visual perception, memory and executive abilities. Results: T statistics comparing the two patient groups did not show any difference in the total WHO QOL-100 score. On the contrary, significant differences emerged in spirituality dimensions, with minor feelings of peace (p = 0.01) and life meaning (p = 0.02) in the epilepsy patients, and in neuropsychological performances (p = 0.01), with higher scores at attention and praxis tests in the epilepsy patients. Although not significantly so, the epilepsy patients were more anxious and depressed but perceived better cognitive abilities than the other patients. In the epilepsy group, the WHO QOL-100 total score significantly correlated with the feelings of peace (r = 0.56, p = 0.006), state-anxiety (r =?0.52, p = 0.01), trait-anxiety (r =?0.58, p = 0.005), and depression (r =?0.62, p = 0.002), as revealed by separate Pearson's tests. In the other patient group, the WHO QOL-100 total score significantly correlated with feelings of life meaning (r = 0.47, p = 0.01), hope (r = 0.536, p = 0.003), openness (r = 0.61, p = 0.001), forgiveness (r = 0.49, p = 0.008), self-esteem (r = 0.62, p < 0.001), state-anxiety (r =?0.78, p < 0.001), trait-anxiety (r =?0.93, p < 0.001), depression (r =?0.79, p < 0.001), and the subjective perception of cognitive efficiency (r =?0.65, p = 0.006). Conclusions: These preliminary results suggest that QOL, as expressed by a single index, may appear similar in epilepsy patients and patients with other chronic brain diseases. However, they differ in spiritual facets, mood, and cognitive abilities. Even if in both groups mood has a central place in the perception of QOL, the subjective appraisal of health may reflect the interaction of different inner factors. Future studies are needed to determine the spectrum of psychological and spiritual facets relating to epilepsy, promoting specific health interventions. 1 David S. Glosser, 1 Dayna A. Leis, 1 Joseph I. Tracy, and 1 Michael R. Sperling ( 1 Neurology, Jefferson Epilepsy Center, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Mood disorders are frequent co-morbidities in epilepsy and may be accompanied by polysomatic complaints. Studies of temporal lobectomy patients have reported post-surgical mood changes with right vs left laterality differences. Among non-epilepsy patients, right hemisphere lesions have been associated with diminished awareness of physical impairments. A sample of right (R) vs left (L) temporal lobectomy S's with pre and 1-yr. post surgical measures was compared to evaluate the effect of surgery and laterality on Anxiety (anx.), Depression (dep.), and Somatization (somat.). Methods: We prospectively studied 20 (L) and 12 (R) side sequentially admitted temporal lobectomy patients, 16 male, and compared Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) Anxiety, Depression, Somatization subtest scores pre and 1-yr. post surgery. Pre-surgical duration of epilepsy, age at surgery, gender, and IQ were assessed. The PAI is a reliable  R = 98. L vs R sample equivalency was challenged by a significantly lower number of R side cases returning for 1 yr. post testing. Females and males, L  while L S's improved only on somat. scores and had no improvement in anxiety or depression. This is consistent with reports that L hemisphere lesions more likely produce mood deterioration; while R damage is associated with decreased appreciation of physical impairment and, occasionally, denial of illness/injury. Alternatively, the combination of L focus and post-surg sz reduction may deprive patients of anti-depressant effects of seizures. Hence, while L side patients' depression and anxiety did not improve, the reduction in seizures produced reduced somat. scores. Though higher post-surgical somatic complaints might have been expected in dominant hemisphere surgery, due to increased threat to language, this did not occur. The greater pre-surgical sz duration of the L patients may reflect reluctance to operate on the dominant hemisphere. Although higher depression, anxiety, and somatization has often been reported among females, this was not seen. 1 Arthur C. Grant, 1 Sayeh Beheshti, 1 Pany Tehrani, 2 Roxan F. Saidi, 1 Olivia Aguilar, 1 Veronica Martin, and 1 Stephanie Moore ( 1 Neurology, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA ; and 2 Medicine, St. Joseph's Hospital, Orange, CA ) Rationale: Limited English language skills complicate neuropsychometric assessment and Wada testing in patients with refractory TLE undergoing pre-surgical evaluation. The patient population at our institution is culturally and ethnically diverse. For many patients English is a second or third language, and is understood and spoken with varying expertise. Although administering the neuropsychological component of the Wada test in a patient's native language is desirable, direct translation of English-language Wada protocols into other languages does not account for cultural or language-specific content. Methods: Our Wada test is a modification of one used at several epilepsy centers. It includes repetition and recall of spoken words and phrases, with additional foil words and phrases used when testing memory performance. Several of the phrases have cultural (e.g. ?My country ?tis of Thee?) and/or language-specific (e.g. ?Mary had a little lamb?) significance that would be lost with direct translation to other languages. We used a combination of culturally congruent substitutions and direct translations to adapt our Wada protocol for use with both Mexican-born Spanish and Iranian-born Farsi speaking patients. In addition, we attempted to preserve phrase length and general semantic content as much as possible. For instance, instead of ?Mary had a little lamb,? the Farsi version uses a strikingly similar line from a well-known Persian nursery rhyme, ?gaveh Hassan chejooreh?? (How is Hassan's cow?), and the Spanish version uses a line from a familiar lullaby, ?Los pollitos dicen pio pio? (The chicks say pio pio). Instead of ?My country ?tis of Thee? we substituted ?Mexico lindo? in the Spanish version and ?zardee-ye man az tow? (My yellowness is from you) in the Farsi version. The latter phrase is part of a traditional exclamation made during a ritual associated with the Persian new year celebration. Medically-trained native speakers administered the protocol to one Farsi speaking and two Spanish speaking patients, under the direct supervision of a neuropsychologist. Results: The procedure was administered without difficulty to all three patients, and was scored using criteria developed for the original English version. In all three patients, Wada memory and language results were consistent with other clinical data, and were incorporated into the surgical decision-making process. Conclusions: Although the number of patients is small, these data suggest that culturally-sensitive adaptations of English-language Wada protocols provide reliable results, and can be used without independent validation in a large number of patients. (Supported in part by NIH K23 NS46347 to ACG.) 1 Jennifer K. Bambara, 2 H. Randall Griffith, 2 Roy C. Martin, and 2 Edward Faught ( 1 Psychology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ; and 2 Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: It has become important to understand the potential cognitive problems that older adults with epilepsy might encounter. We previously demonstrated cognitive impairments in epilepsy seniors. To further investigate potential cognitive declines in epilepsy seniors, we conducted a prospective study of cognitive performance across a three-year time span. Methods: Fifteen epilepsy seniors averaging 68 years of age (range 62?77) at follow-up were studied. Participants had partial-onset seizures for 34 years on average. All participants completed measures of overall cognition, attention, language, memory, construction, abstraction, executive function, and mood at baseline and at an average follow-up interval of 3.1 years. Results: Epilepsy seniors showed worsening executive control over the follow-up period as measured by the Executive Interview Test (EXIT), t(13) =?3.06, p = .009. A trend towards significance was observed for poorer performance on WMS-III Logical Memory I (p = .06). There were no other changes observed in neuropsychological test performance or mood across the follow-up interval (all p values >.10). Conclusions: Across three years, epilepsy seniors had diminished executive control with some evidence of decreased verbal recall. Otherwise, stability in cognitive functioning was observed. Older adults with epilepsy appear prone to selective worsening of executive control. Numerous factors could contribute to executive dyscontrol, including brain atrophy related to continued seizures and/or cognitive effects of medications due to age-related changes in pharmacokinetics. Further study is necessary to determine what factors contribute to worsening executive dyscontrol in epilepsy seniors. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation of America and Centers for Disease Control.) Observed Neuropsychological Performance of Epilepsy Seniors at Baseline and Three-year Follow-up Neuropsychological ?Measure ?Baseline ?Follow-up ?P Value DRS Total Score 129.07 (8.66)? 128.20 (7.49)? .69? DRS Attention 34.80 (1.70) 34.47 (1.30) .44? DRS Initiation 32.67 (3.48) 32.07 (4.37) .54? DRS Construction ?5.20 (1.26) 5.80 (.56) .14? DRS Conceptualization 34.40 (3.58) 32.33 (7.81) .38? DRS Memory 22.00 (2.33) 21.33 (2.47) .47? WMS III Logical Memory Immediate 26.07 (7.98) 22.87 (9.05) .06? WMS III Logical Memory Delay 13.53 (7.30) 11.80 (6.70) .20? WMS III Recognition* 22.33 (2.77) 21.64 (4.27) .52? CFL Word Fluency* 25.79 (10.51) 22.80 (11.76) .33? Boston Naming Test 44.53 (13.55) 43.07 (13.15) .43? WRAT III Reading** 39.77 (4.94)? 40.79 (4.76) .87? EXIT Total Score* 11.71 (3.81) 14.20 (4.23) .009 Geriatric Depression Scale Total Score* 8.79 (4.66) ?8.60 (6.20) .96? *n = 14 participants **n = 12 participants 1 Guadalupe Rojas, 2 Maria Gudin, 2 Amalia Hernández, 2 Ibanez Ramon, and 2 Vaamonde Julia ( 1 Psychiatry, Ntra Sra de Alarcos Hospital, Ciudad Real, Castilla la Mancha, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Ntra Sra de Alarcos Hospital, Ciudad Real, Castilla la Mancha, Spain ) Rationale: Pseudo seizures are paroxysmal alterations in behavior that resemble seizures but are without any organic cause. The objective of this work is to analyze the underlying psychiatric pathology of patients with pseudoseizures in a general outpatient clinic. Methods: A retrospective study of patients that underwent EEG due to a suspicion of pseudo seizures was realized. The clinical history, psychiatry diagnosis and EEG NONITORING were reviewed in sixteen patients (M/F: 10/6), middle age 40,6 years. All of them were studied by EEG monitoring, pseudoseizures seizures were recorded in 10 of these 16 patients, the other six had a high clinical suspicion. In 8 patients coexisted the pseudoseizures with epilepsy, 1 had migraine, 1 was diagnosed o syncopes, the rest of them did not have a clear epilepsy diagnosis. Results: Four patients did not have a clear psychiatric pathology. Five patients were malingering with clear secondary gain. One of the subjects admitted self-induced illness and spontaneously improved after video EEG monitoring. The others ameliorated after retirement from their work. One patient had Alcohol Dependence. Four patients had an Anxiety Disorder NOS, 1 was a Depressive Disorder, 1 patient had an Impulse-Control Disorder NOS, 7 patients were diagnosed of different Personality Disorder, all of those patients were women. The women improved when the socio familial circumstances changed. Men experienced some change when social aspects were modified. Conclusions: The women with pseudoseizures had been diagnosed basically of Personality Disorders. Men had secondary gain, or no clear psychiatric diagnosis. In this study we verify the importance of a psychiatric management to obtain adequate pseudoseizures control. 1 Hajo M. Hamer, 1 Anja Haag, 1 Johannes Dorst, 1 Felix Rosenow, and 1 Susanne Knake ( 1 Neurology, Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany ) Rationale: Identification of eloquent cortex is a crucial issue in the preoperative assessment of patients with medically intractable epilepsy to reduce the risk of postoperative cognitive decline. Functional transcranial Doppler sonography (fTCD) is already a well established tool for language lateralisation. In this study we evaluated a fTCD-paradigm that reliably lateralises to the non-dominant hemisphere. Methods: 30 right handed healthy controls (17 male; 13 female age = 27,1 ± 7,5) participated in the study. While measuring cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) simultaneously and continuously in both middle cerebral arteries (MCA), all patients performed a mental rotation paradigm (cube filled with three ropes had to be rotated mentally to imagine views from different sides). The paradigm consisted of 20 activation and resting periods. In addition, the already established lexical fluency paradigm for language lateralisation was performed. Data were analysed offline with the software Average?, which performs a heart-cycle integration and a baseline-correction and calculated a laterality index (LI) with its standard error of the mean increase in blood flow separately for both MCA during activation. Results: One out of the 30 participants showed atypical right hemispheric language dominance and was excluded from further analysis. 21 participants (72%) of the 29 with left hemispheric language dominance showed right hemispheric dominance in the mental rotation paradigm. 7 (24%) patients generated greater left than right hemispheric activation and one participant did not show any lateralisation. There was no significant correlation between the LI in the mental rotation paradigm and test performance and no significant negative correlation between the LI of the mental rotation and the language paradigm. Conclusions: In more than two thirds of the participants the mental rotation paradigm showed a right hemispheric lateralisation. So far, mental rotation appears to be one of the best paradigm to activate predominantly the non-dominant hemisphere in fTCD. Participants will be interviewed to elucidate whether different especially verbal strategies could be responsible for left hemispheric lateralisation in some participants. Evaluation of this paradigm in epileptic patients is warranted. 1 Cynthia L. Harden, 2 Janice M. Buelow, 3 Joyce Cramer, 4 Carl B. Dodrill, 1 Blagovest Nikolov, and 1 Kenneth Perrine ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ; 2 Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ; 3 Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, West Haven, CT ; and 4 Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Mood disorders are prevalent in persons with epilepsy. As part of the Epilepsy Foundation of America's initiative on mood disorders, a professional education subcommittee developed a survey to assess knowledge of and attitudes and practices towards mood disorders in epilepsy. Methods: The survey entitled ?Mood in Epilepsy Neurology Practice Questionnaire? consisted of 14 questions including three demographic items. A 5-degree Likert scale was developed for most answer choices. The survey was piloted by some attendees of the American Epilepsy Society (AES) meeting in December 2004. Unselected attendees who passed by the EFA booth were asked to complete the anonymous, 1-page survey. Results: Ninety-nine responses were obtained and the total number of answers to selected questions are listed below. 1 How often do you ask epilepsy patients about their mood? Never 2/Rarely 4/Sometimes 21/Often 47/Always 25 2 How much do you think that symptoms of a mood disorder are important factors in determining an epilepsy patient's quality of life? Very little 2/To a mild degree 1/Somewhat 2/Quite a bit 46/A lot 48 3 When you diagnose a mood disorder in an epilepsy patient, how often do you initiate a medication to treat it (medication for depression, anxiety, etc)? Never 4/Rarely 15/Sometimes 37/Often 39/Always 4 4 When you diagnose a mood disorder in an epilepsy patient with a mood disorder, how often do you refer the patient to a psychiatrist for initiation of treatment? Never 2/Rarely 14/Sometimes 34/Often 38/Always 11 5 How frequently do you limit your prescribing of antidepressants because of concern about exacerbating seizures? Always 1/Often 7/Sometimes 31/Rarely 41/Never 18 6 Your age in years 25?35 = 14/35?45 = 38/45?55 = 21/55?65 = 18/65 and older = 1 7 Type of Practice Adult Neuro ?Academic 32/Adult Neuro ? Private 5/Adult Epi?Academic 15/Adult Epi?Private 1/Ped Neuro?Academic13/Ped Neuro ? Private3/Ped Epi ?Academic12/Ped Epi? Private 2 8 Number of Years in Practice 1?9 = 41/10?20 = 18/> than 20 = 27 Conclusions: These results reflect the youthful and highly academic membership of the AES who are well-informed about the importance of mood disorders in epilepsy, and are very likely to either initiate antidepressant medication or refer for that purpose. Further, concern about exacerbating seizures is not a reason for withholding antidepressant medication among these practitioners. These findings suggest that educational efforts regarding mood disorders and epilepy have favorably impacted the practices of AES members, but whether this holds true in a larger group of general neurology practictioners assessed in a less biased manner remains to be determined. 1 Chin-Wei Huang, 1 Yi-Jung Hsieh, 1 Ming-Chyi Pai, and 1 Jing-Jane Tsai ( 1 Epileptology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; Pediatrics, Chi-Mei Foundation Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; Behavioral Neurology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; and Epileptology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan ) Rationale: Cognitive impairment in epilepsy has gained much attention in clinical practice. most of them are focused on the seizure type, age at seizure onset, seizure duration, antiepileptic drugs and epilepsy surgery. Few studies specifically focused on cryptogenic epilepsy. In addition, how the cognitive performance in cryptogenic epilepsy responds to treatment remains elusive. Methods: We investigated the cognitive performance in cryptogenic epilepsy patients with the aid of cognitive ability screening instrument (CASI), based on cross-sectional and longitudinal aspects. One hundred patients met the diagnostic criteria of cryptogenic epilepsy were recruited from a national university hospital. The patients with normal total CASI scores were compared with those with abnormal ones. We also compared the follow-up CASI score after 3 years with the previous one in all cryptogenic epilepsy patients. Demographic and clinical variables of cryptogenic epilepsy patients with normal and abnormal total CASI scores as well as univariate analysis ??Characteristics Normal ?CASI ?(n = 64) Abnormal ?CASI ?(n = 36) ??Odds Ratio ?Confidence ?Interval Age(years) ?<25 17 10 1 - ?25?34 22 ?7 0.36 0.13?1.19 ?35?44 11 ?6 0.80 0.24?3.11 ?>45 14 13 1.37 0.58?3.85 Sex ?male 36 16 1 - ?female 28 20 1.53 0.62?4.60 Education ?<6 years ?4 ?7 3.71 0.14?4.32 ?6-8 years 12 13 5.85 1.01?8.30 ?>8 years 48 16 1 - Disease duration ?<5 years ?7 ?4 1 - ?5?10 years 17 ?7 0.64 0.14?1.69 ?>10 years 40 25 2.41 0.65?5.42 Number of seizure types ???1 31 13 ?1 - ???>2 33 23 2.83 0.66?4.26 Number of AEDs ?none ?8 ?2 1 - ?1 23 10 2.1 0.22?5.66 ?>2 33 24 5.2 0.81?10.73 1 The performance in Cognitive Ability Screening Instrument among patiets with crytogenic epilepsy. Black bar, initial score, gray bar, the following score, A: The group with initial normal total CASI score, B: The group with initial abnormal total CASI score group. Figure 1A. Results: 36% of cryptogenic epilepsy patients showed cognitive impairment. The variables correlated with higher risks of cognitive impairment were lower educational status, number of seizure types, duration of seizure and polytherapy, especially the lower educational status. The correlation between CASI and the MMSE was excellent. As to the follow-up study, the abnormal group showed significant improvement in total CASI score. The normal group showed no significant change. Conclusions: We suggest that in cryptogenic epilepsy, lower educational status remains the most important factor in determining cognitive performance. Adequate treatment with anti-epileptic drugs can improve cognitive performance in previously cognitively impaired patients. (Supported by National Cheng Kung University Hospital.) 1 David Isaradisaikul, 2 Kelly A. McNally, 1 Jason M. Meckler, 1 Michael D. Privitera, 2 Bruce K. Schefft, and 1 Jerzy P. Szaflarski ( 1 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Psychology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) often manifest differently in different patients. Selwa et al. (Epilepsia 2000; 41(10): 1330?1334) developed a system of PNES classification to describe different types of spells. Previous research has demonstrated that patients with PNES are commonly associated with elevations on the hypochondriasis and hysteria scales of the MMPI. In the present study, we sought to investigate the relationship between PNES spell type and MMPI profiles. Methods: We reviewed video-EEG reports and MMPIs in 86 patients diagnosed with definite PNES after inpatient video-EEG monitoring at the University of Cincinnati between January 2000 and March 2003. Definite PNES was defined as habitual spells recorded on video-EEG without an ictal EEG discharge and normal background alpha rhythm during the event. The diagnosis of PNES was based on the results of the prolonged video-EEG monitoring (PVEM), clinical characteristics of the events recorded, and other supporting evidence (e.g., neuropsychological testing/MMPI). Patients with mixed PNES and epileptic seizures were excluded. Based on review of spells, each patient was classified as predominantly or exclusively belonging to the catatonic, thrashing, automatisms, tremor, intermittent, or subjective categories of nonepileptic seizure type based on Selwa's classification. MMPI data were collected on each patient as part of the standard neuropsychological battery obtained prior to discussion of the diagnosis with the patient. Results: We found that the largest groups consisted of patients with intermittent (n = 22), subjective (n = 21), and thrashing (n = 19) types of PNES. Analysis of variance results indicated that there was a significant effect of PNES spell type on MMPI standardized T-scores on a combination of the hypochondriasis scale (1) and the hysteria scale (3) (F = 3.87, p = 0.003). Post-hoc pairwise comparisons with a Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons revealed that patients with catatonic-type PNES had significantly lower scores on scales 1 and 3 than all other PNES types. No other MMPI scales were found to be significantly related to PNES spell type. Conclusions: We found that patients classified with catatonic-type PNES had significantly lower scores on the hypochondriasis and hysteria scales of the MMPI, as compared to all other types of PNES. According to previous research, patients in the catatonic subgroup tended to have a better outcome than other PNES types. This improved outcome in the catatonic group may be related to their decreased pathology on MMPI scales 1 and 3. 1 Donya L. James, 1 Mike R. Schoenberg, 1 Kyra A. Dawson, 1 Pamela Lang, and 1 Mary Ann Werz ( 1 Neurology, University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: There is conflicting data in the literature regarding material-specific memory deficits in patients with epilepsy (Kim et al., 2003). Some research suggests that patients with left hemisphere seizure lateralization have decreased capacity for verbal memory while patients with right hemisphere seizure lateralization have decreased capacity for visual memory. Subsequent research has not been able to fully confirm these findings. Methods: The participants were 23 patients diagnoses with epilepsy whose seizure lateralization evaluation including the Wechsler Memory Scale- 3rd Edition. Results: Primary Index scores [e.g. Auditory Immediate Memory (IM), Visual Immediate Memory (VI), General Memory Immediate (IM), Verbal Memory Delayed (AD), Visual Memory Delayed (VD), Auditory Recognition Memory Delayed (ARD), and General Delayed Memory (GM)] were compared using ANOVA. Significant differences were found between AI index scores and ARD index scores. Patients with right hemisphere seizure lateralization scored significantly better on both indexes. There were no significant differences between the groups on other WMS-III indexes. Conclusions: The study provides further support for differences in patients performance on material-specific memory tests. However, the degree of lateralization is less pronounced in patients with epilepsy having left hemisphere epileptic focus. This research provides further evidence of material specific memory deficits on the WMS-III, although not for delayed memory. Patients with right lateralization of seizure activity perform better on tasks of immediate recall of auditory information as well as tasks involving the recognition of verbal information after a delay. 1 S. Kennepohl, 1 V. Sziklas, and 1 M. Jones-Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: We have previously raised a question whether the well-known hemispheric difference in memory function might be process-specific as well as material-specific1,2; i.e., related to both novelty vs. familiarity and verbal vs. nonverbal material. To test this question using neuroimaging, recognition memory must be used; our prior results with patients used recall. We have developed a single recognition memory protocol to be used in both clinical and neuroimaging research. Methods: We use 4 types of stimulus dichotomized along verbal/nonverbal and novel/familiarity dimensions (abstract words, nonsense words, drawings of objects and abstract designs). For each stimulus type, the task consists of two learning/recognition trials and a delayed recognition trial. The fMRI task differs from that used in clinical research primarily in that it uses a block design for item presentation (alternating blocks of stimuli and baseline items), includes a simple perceptual decision task (is item primarily ?straight? or ?curvy?) to ensure fixation during encoding, and does not use an interference task between learning and delayed recognition. Comparability of the two versions was assessed with groups of matched neurologically healthy participants (fMRI vs. clinical version; n = 35 and n = 18, respectively). A small sample of individuals with either primarily left- or right-sided temporal lobe (TL) epilepsy was tested using the clinical version. Results: Our results show that healthy individuals demonstrate significant learning over the two first trials, with little-to-no forgetting following a delay. ANOVAs revealed: 1) no effect of version; 2) main effect of novelty (familiar > novel); 3) main effect of material (?nonverbal? > verbal); 4) main effect of trial. Significant interactions showed poor initial learning of novel material (with bigger improvements on Trial 2), and better overall recognition of drawings of objects. Preliminary results with a small sample of patients suggests that those with a left TL focus improve much more on learning novel than familiar material, whereas those with a right TL focus show little change over trials. Conclusions: We have developed a simple yes-no recognition memory protocol allowing study of material- and process-specific learning/retention using an almost identical paradigm in fMRI or clinical testing. The clinical and fMRI versions of the task appear directly comparable with respect to memory performance. To our knowledge, this represents the first learning/memory protocol using an identical paradigm, potentially yielding complementary information about brain regions active during memory compared with the result of focal lesions. The novelty/familiarity dimension yielded a large effect, confirming the importance of this factor in learning, and may be particularly salient in elucidating laterality effects in temporal-lobe epilepsy. REFERENCES 1.?Majdan et al JCEN (1996); 18: 416?30. 2.?Jones-Gotman et al Neuropsychologia (1997); 35: 963?73 (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Robyn M. Busch, 1 Thomas W. Frazier, 1 Kathryn A. Haggerty, and 1 Cynthia S. Kubu ( 1 Psychiatry  Right = 122) to examine potential factors that may moderate the relationship between BNT performance and seizure lateralization and to determine the incremental validity of this measure in predicting seizure lateralization. Results: The results support the clinical utility of the BNT in determining ultimate side of surgery and indicate that age of seizure onset strongly moderates this relationship. BNT performance was helpful in identifying ultimate side of surgery in patients with later age of seizure onset (i.e., >6 years). This relationship was not apparent in patients with younger age of seizure onset. In addition, site of seizure focus (i.e., temporal vs. nontemporal) approached significance as a moderating variable with more robust relationships apparent in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. FSIQ and duration of epilepsy were not significant moderating variables. Hierarchical logistic regression analyses supported the role of the BNT in predicting ultimate side of surgery and further demonstrated that this instrument has incremental validity over and beyond memory and IQ laterality scores. Conclusions: This study supports the clinical utility of the BNT in the pre-operative evaluation of candidates for epilepsy surgery, particularly for patients with later seizure onset. REFERENCES 1.?Kubu CS, Carswell L, Harnadek M, Galvan N. The diagnostic utility of the Boston and Benton Naming Tests in epilepsy [abstract]. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2001;7(2):210. 2.?Schefft BK, Testa SM, Dulay MF et al Preoperative assessment of confrontation naming ability and interictal paraphasia production in unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy. Epilepsy Behav. 2003;4: 161?168. 1 Jennifer J. Loyden, 1 Bruce K. Schefft, 1 Steven R. Howe, 2 Dean Beebe, and 3 Michael D. Privitera ( 1 Psychology, Unniversity of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; 2 Psychology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ; and 3 Neurology, University Hospital, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Approximately 2% of the population is diagnosed with epilepsy and about one third of those diagnosed will develop intractable epilepsy (Snyder, 1998). Thus, surgical intervention, particularly anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL), has become a widely used form of treatment for those with medically uncontrolled seizures (Engel, 1996) and has a success rate of about 80% (Janszky et al., 2005; Olivier, 1988). Previous studies have found unilateral hippocampal atrophy, side of surgery, and duration of seizures to be significantly predictive of seizure control after ATL (Jeong et al., 1999; Olivier, 1988). Additionally, studies have shown that patients with higher preoperative IQ and language scores and lower preoperative verbal memory scores have good seizure control post ATL (Chelune et al., 1991; Chelune et al., 1998; Hennessey et al., 2001). The primary goal of this study was to determine changes in cognitive functioning after ATL and to identify predictors of favorable seizure and cognitive outcome post-surgically. For seizure outcome, the predictors included hippocampal integrity, seizure laterality and duration, and pre-surgical cognitive functioning. For cognitive outcome, the predictors examined were hippocampal integrity, seizure laterality and duration, and seizure outcome. Methods: Data from a convenience sample of 36 patients who underwent ATL for relief from medically intractable seizures were included in this study. Surgery was performed at University Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio. All participants underwent prolonged video/EEG monitoring and pre- and post-surgical neuropsychological evaluations. Seizure outcome was determined according to Engel's classification system. Results: Approximately 60% of patients' overall IQ and verbal memory scores improved or remained the same following ATL. The majority of these patients were seizure free post surgery, and those who improved on verbal memory tasks had undergone right ATL. Additionally, patients who were seizure free following ATL significantly improved on an executive functioning task. Interestingly, more than half of the patients declined on nonverbal memory and confrontation naming post right ATL. Multiple regression analyses demonstrated that only pre-surgical cognitive scores were significantly predictive of seizure outcome F(8,15) = 2.713, p < .05), accounting for 59% of the variance. Futher, regression analyses yielded statistically significant main effects for nonverbal memory and confrontation naming (t(29) = -2.43, p < .05 and t(29) = 2.27, p < .05, respectively). Conclusions: The results demonstrate that patients improved on most measures of cognitive functioning. Further, cognitive improvement appeared to be greatest in patients who were seizure free following ATL. Higher pre-surgical cognitive scores were predictive of seizure relief post surgery. 1 Carrie R. McDonald, 1 Dean C. Delis, 1 Marc A. Norman, 2 Evelyn S. Tecoma, and 2 Vicente J. Iragui ( 1 Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA ; and 2 Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA ) Rationale: Executive dysfunction is common in patients with frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE) and is thought to be secondary to underlying frontal lobe dysfunction. However, executive dysfunction has also been reported in a subset of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Thus, the specificity of executive dysfunction to FLE versus TLE is unclear. In addition, the degree of executive dysfunction in these populations may be related to disease-specific variables, including the side of the seizure focus, presence of a structural lesion, and/or the age of seizure onset. The goal of this investigation was to determine (1) the nature and extent of executive dysfunction in patients with FLE and TLE and (2) the relationships between disease-specific variables and executive dysfunction. Methods: Participants in this investigation were 23 patients with FLE (10 left, 11 right, one bilateral), 20 patients with TLE (11 left, 8 right, one bilateral), and 23 age- and education-matched controls. Fifteen patients with FLE had MRI-confirmed frontal lobe lesions. All patients with TLE had mesial temporal sclerosis. All participants completed the Delis-Kaplan Executive Functions System. Test performances were adjusted for age, gender, and education and transformed to a common metric (z scores). Composite z-scores were created for each of the following domains: switching, inhibition, fluency, abstraction, and planning. Results: Results revealed that patients with FLE were impaired relative to controls in switching, inhibition, fluency, and abstraction, but not planning. Conversely, patients with TLE were found to be significantly impaired only in fluency relative to controls, although their performances across domains were decreased and did not differ from those with FLE. In the FLE group, correlation analyses did not reveal a relationship between age of seizure onset and any domain of executive functioning. Instead, a left-sided seizure focus and structural lesions were associated with poorer performances. In patients with TLE, an early age of seizure onset was related to greater impairment in one domain (i.e., abstraction) regardless of the side of the seizure focus. Conclusions: Executive dysfunction in patients with FLE is pervasive and appears to depend on the side of the seizure focus and presence of structural pathology. In patients with TLE, executive dysfunction is relatively subtle but may be more pronounced in those with an early seizure onset. These findings are consistent with past research indicating that executive dysfunction is present in patients with FLE and TLE. However, our research extends the literature by demonstrating that the nature, extent, and disease-specific correlates of executive dysfunction differ between the patient groups. (Supported by an Epilepsy Foundation Research Fellowship Award and a NIMH Training Grant T32-MH18399.) 1 Kelly A. McNally, 1 Steven Howe, 1 Bruce K. Schefft, and 2 Michael D. Privitera ( 1 Psychology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Neuropsychological test results are often used in the differential diagnosis of epileptic seizures (ES) and psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES). However, since deficits have been reported in both groups, simply investigating overall performance may not be sufficient. It may be important for neuropsychologists to shift their attention to the qualitative differences in test responses between patients with PNES and ES. Signal Detection Theory (SDT) can be used to investigate differential response patterns on recognition memory tasks. SDT posits that performance is dependent on two independent factors: 1) ability to discriminate between targets and distractors (sensitivity, or actual memory ability) and 2) propensity to respond in a particular manner (response bias). Methods: One hundred patients diagnosed with PNES and 108 patients with temporal lobe ES, 62 left temporal (LTLE) and 46 right temporal (RTLE), were studied. Each participant was administered the Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS-III). Scores on the recognition subtest of the List Learning task were analyzed with the traditional method of scoring and also subjected to SDT analytic decomposition into indices of sensitivity (d') and bias (c). Logistic regression analysis was conducted to investigate the diagnostic utility of raw scores and SDT measures. Results: Raw scores on the recognition memory task were found to significantly discriminate between ES and PNES (?2= 6.01 p = .014, Area under ROC curve, or AUC = .57) however, analysis of SDT measures slightly improved the diagnostic utility (?2= 16.95, p < .001, AUC = .62). Both sensitivity (Wald ?2= 8.43, p = .004) and bias (Wald ?2= 7.92, p = .005) significantly contributed to the discrimination of ES and PNES. Increased sensitivity and a more negative response bias increased the odds of PNES (odds ratio, OR, sensitivity = 1.84, bias = 0.09). Decomposition into SDT measures did not significantly improve the discrimination between LTLE and RTLE (raw scores ?2= 6.63, p = .01., AUC = .66; SDT measures ?2= 14.42, p < .001, AUC = .68). Sensitivity (Wald ?2= 8.17, p = .004) but not response bias (Wald ?2= 2.9, p = .09) was found to be a significant predictor of left versus right TLE, with decreased sensitivity increasing the odds of LTLE (OR = 0.45). Conclusions: This study provides evidence that SDT measures of sensitivity and response bias may be useful tools to aid in the differential diagnosis of ES and PNES. Patients with PNES were found to have a negative response bias as compared to patients with ES. The negative response bias in the PNES group may be related to depression, inadequate effort or low motivation on the diagnostic testing. These results suggest that, not only is overall performance on neuropsychological testing important, but differences in response patterns should also be considered. 1 Cristiane S. Messas, 2 Luiz Henrique M. Castro, 2 Carmen L. Jorge, and 1 Leticia L. Mansur ( 1 Physical, Speech and Occupational Therapy, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy show cognitive imparment in episodic memory. Semantic memory aspects have received less attention in temporal lobe epielpsy. We evaluated aspects of semantic memory in epileptic patients with temporal lobe epilepsy secondary a mesial temporal sclerosis. Methods: We studied patients with medically refractory mesial TLE undergoing presurgical evaluation for epilepsy surgery with MRI documented unilateral mesial temporal sclerosis. Patients were classified as right or left mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS), according to MRI findings. Inclusion criteria included right handed patients with ages between 18?55, education above 8 yrs and absence of other MRI lesions or other significant neurological or psychiatric disease. Patients underwent a detailed battery evaluating episodic memory (word list learning, with spontaneous, cued and recognition recall and imediate and late history recall) and semantic memory tests: picture-word matching, definition of objects, common nouns, verbs and adjectives, word list generation [FAS, and category: animals and means of transportation), auditory responsive and visual confrontation naming (common and proper nouns, verbs and adjectives). Performance of left and right MTS patients was compared with a control group of normal individuals, matched by age, gender and education. Results: We evaluated 18 MTS patients (10 left, 8 right) and 22 controls. Groups did not differ in age, gender and education. All patients were high dose mono or polytherapy of antiepileptic drugs. Left MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in immediate and late history recall (p < 0.05). Left MTS patients also performed worse than right MTS and controls in word list learning, but the difference did not reach statistical significance(p < 0.05). In semantic memory testing, both left and right MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in confrontation naming for common and proper nouns, as well as in word list generation (FAS, animals and means of transportation). In word-picture matching, right MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls (p < 0.05). Left MTS patients performed worse than controls, but this difference did not reach statistical significance (due to sample size). Left and right MTS patients performed worse than controls in responsive naming and in visual confrontation for verbs and adjectives, but this difference did not reach statistical significance. Groups did not differ in the definition task for objects, nouns, adjectives and verbs. Conclusions: In this group of patients, while episodic verbal memory impairment was noted in left MTS patients, imparment in some aspects of semantic memory was seen in both left and right MTS patients. 1 Yafa Minazad, and 1 Laura Kalayjian ( 1 Neurology, University of Southern California, Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Epilepsy is a chronic illness that negatively impacts quality of life. Cultural factors may have an influence. At Los Angeles County Medical Center, the majority of patients are Spanish-speaking, uninsured, and with low income and level of education. It is important to identify the factors associated with quality of life in this population to provide better care. Methods: Two hundred adult Hispanic patients, seen at our epilepsy clinic underwent a structured interview followed by a self-administered questionnaire (English or Spanish). Demographic and other information regarding their epilepsy was collected. The questionnaire consisted of the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-10 (QOLIE- 10) plus 11 additional questions designed to identify more cultural/social concerns. A statistical regression model was used to correlate these factors with mean QOLIE 10 scores. Results: Of the 200 patients interviewed, 61% were female. Mean age was 36 and mean duration of epilepsy was 20 years. 82% spoke Spanish as their primary language. 51% arrived by public transportation. Average number of antiepileptic medication prescribed was 2, and 74% of patients reported compliance. Mean seizure frequency was 1 per month. Mean percent optimal life scores (QOL) derived from the QOLIE 10 was 69.4%. Seizure frequency was significantly related with QOL, (p < 0.001). QOL decreased by 10% with every increase in category of seizure frequency; one every other month or less, more than every other month up to 2 per month, and 2 or more per month. Epilepsy duration was significantly and inversely associated with QOL (p < 0.04). Patients' gender, age of onset, seizure type, and etiology, did not correlate with QOL. Language was significantly associated with QOL (p < 0.01). English speaking Hispanics had lower QOL scores compared to Spanish speaking ones. Average length of education was 8 years. Of the 34% of patients who had stopped education due to epilepsy, 46% were below age 30. Patients with higher level of education (high school and above) had significantly lower QOL (p < 0.03). There was a significant association between sense of embarrassment (stigma) and QOL (p < 0.001). Twenty six percent reported being diagnosed with depression or anxiety. Of those diagnosed, 56% were receiving treatment. The question left unanswered the most by patients was regarding driving. Of the 14% of our patients who drove, only 51% owned a driver's license. Conclusions: Cultural factors and epilepsy burden play a role in quality of life in Hispanic epilepsy patients at a major US urban medical center. Stigma, language, and education had significant relationships with QOL. QOL was also significantly associated with increased seizure frequency and duration of disease. These results are similar to other studies showing refractory epilepsy patients have poor QOL. This information will enlighten health care providers to the needs of this cultural group. 1 Hilary Mounfield, 2 Gus Baker, 3 Michael Feichtinger, and 4 Philippe Ryvlin ( 1 Chief Executive, Epilepsy Scotland, Glasgow, United Kingdom ; 2 Clinical Neuropsychology, Walton Center for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Liverpool, United Kingdom ; 3 Department of Neurology, Karl-Franzens University, Graz, Austria ; and 4 Department of Functional Neurology and Epileptology, Neurology Hospital, Lyon, France ) Rationale: To provide a patients' perspective on the cognitive side effects of anti-epileptic drug (AED) treatment and the consequences for quality of life. Methods: A nine-item questionnaire comprising a combination of forced-choice and open-ended questions was distributed to 4,500 members of nine chapters of the International Bureau for Epilepsy (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Israel, Norway and Scotland). Results: Data analysis was performed on 837 completed questionnaires. The average age of respondents was 40 years, 54% were female and 95% were taking medication for their seizures (60% polytherapy vs 39% monotherapy). Average length of time on treatment was 18.07 years (± 18.07). Indicators of cognitive impairment considered to be affected ?very much? or ?moderately? included sleepiness/tiredness (57%), slowness of thought (42%) and difficulties learning something new (41%). Two thirds stated that cognitive impairment was related to their condition or AED therapy, with 41% attributing impairment to their AED therapy alone. More than half (59%) stated that cognitive impairment had prevented them from achieving a goal and approximately 50% reported that their quality of life had been affected including: work (48%), education (46%), relationships (48%) and leisure pursuits (44%). When asked what side effects they would most like to avoid, respondents reported indicators of cognitive impairment most frequently, including sleepiness/tiredness (35%), memory problems (19%), lethargy/sluggishness (9%) and difficulty paying attention (8%). Conclusions: Insights gained from this survey highlight the debilitating effect of cognitive impairment on individuals with epilepsy and the importance ascribed to minimising cognitive side effects of AEDs. (Supported by an unrestricted educational grant from UCB.) 1 Ada Piazzini, 1 Rosanna Chifari, 1 Katherine Turner, 1 Alberto Morabito, 1 Raffaele Canger, and 1 Maria Paola Canevini ( 1 Epilepsy Center, S. Paolo Hospital, University of Milan, Italy ) Rationale: The main aim of this investigation is to assess the possible cognitive changes in patients with epilepsy compared to controls over 5 years, and to investigate the clinical variables mainly implied in the mental alteration. Methods: 50 patients with focal epilepsy and 50 healthy controls were administered the same battery of comprehensive neuropsychological tests at baseline and 5 years later. Raw scores of all psychometric measures were converted to adjusted (age, gender, years of education) z scores. Results: Patients with focal epilepsy exhibited a significant impairment in substained attention compared to controls within 5 years, while the other cognitive domains did not show any important change. The worsening of attention was mainly related to the duration of epilepsy, the age of onset, a history of tonic-clonic seizures, and the level of education. There was no relation to the AEDs regimen. Conclusions: Our results could have important implications considering the influence attention can have on other cognitive functioning, on the quality of life and on the work status, in order to prevent further cognitive deterioration, especially in those patients more at risk to develop that decline. 1 Sandra Pouliot, and 1 Marilyn Jones-Gotman ( 1 Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: We have found that healthy young adults remember odors leading to large emotional reactions (measured with self ratings and galvanic skin response (GSR)) better than odors provoking smaller emotional reactions. Because the amygdala seems to be critically implicated in memory for emotional information and because it is part of the primary olfactory area, we hypothesized that patients with a unilateral amygdala resection (included in a selective amygdalohippocampectomy (SAH) or a corticoamygdalohippocampectomy (CAH)) would not show the normal better memory for emotional than for nonemotional odors, but that instead their memory would be the same without respect to the emotion-arousing properties of the odors to be remembered. Methods: We tested 20 patients who had undergone a SAH or CAH (10 left (6 men), 10 right (3 men)) for treatment of intractable epilepsy, and 32 healthy control subjects matched to the patients for age, education and gender. First, participants smelled passively 21 odors (time interval between odors: 45 seconds) while their breathing, heart rate and GSR were measured. Second, they smelled the same 21 odors again and rated each odor's intensity, pleasantness, familiarity and emotion-arousing properties. Third, a few days later (mean = 5.3, standard deviation = 3.4), we gave participants an unexpected recognition odor memory test. Results: Patients did not show better memory for emotional odors than for nonemotional ones, whereas the healthy control subjects did. There was no difference between patients with a left or right resection in odor memory accuracy or response bias. However, patients with a right resection tended to rate all odors as less emotionally arousing than did patients with a left resection and healthy control subjects. Control subjects showed greater GSR changes to arousing than to nonarousing odors, but the breathing and heart rate measures did not differ as a function of these properties of the odors. Conclusions: Patients who undergo a SAH or CAH, whether in the left or right hemisphere, lose the memory advantage that odors causing strong emotional reactions normally have. This absence of an effect of arousal is not related to differences in perceiving the odors, because only individuals with right resections rated odors differently whereas both left- and right-resection groups failed to remember the emotional odors better than nonemotional ones. This finding is likely owing to resection of the amygdala, which was included in both types of surgery. (Supported by Savoy Foundation and Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Gail L. Risse, 1 Robert Doss, 1 Wenbo Zhang, and 1,2 John R. Gates ( 1 Epilepsy, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, P.A. of United and Children's Hospitals and Clinics - St. Paul, St. Paul, MN ; and 2 Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Recent studies have reported a high rate of concordance between magnetoencephalography/magnetic source imaging (MSI) and the Intracarotid Amobarbital Procedure (IAP) in identifying patients with left hemisphere language dominance, despite the frequent co-occurrence of some right hemisphere activation on MSI. This study examines the anatomical activation patterns in the right hemisphere in response to an auditory word recognition task in patients who were classified with bilateral language based on the IAP. Methods: Data from four patients diagnosed with chronic epilepsy and/or brain tumor who had been classified with bilateral language representation on IAP and who also underwent language mapping with MSI were retrospectively reviewed. MSI data were obtained with a 148-channel Magnes 2500 WH system (4-D Neuroimaging, SanDiego, CA) and analyzed using the single equivalent dipole model. For each patient, the number and anatomic location of right hemisphere dipoles were examined in relation to modality-specific IAP language responses scored for the right hemisphere. Results: Evidence of correct responses on automatic speech tasks and/or at least one correct naming response was present in all four patients during maximum drug effect following the left injection on IAP. Two of 4 patients demonstrated some auditory comprehension in the right hemisphere as well. Right hemisphere MSI language activation sites included the superior temporal gyrus and/or angular gyrus in 3 of 4 patients. The fourth patient showed activation in the right inferior frontal region and a portion of the insula. This patient had the highest right hemisphere language score on IAP of the 4 cases reviewed. For all patients, activation of classical temporal lobe language areas in the left hemisphere significantly exceeded that seen on the right. Conclusions: These data appear to confirm independent activation of specific right hemisphere language areas in patients with unambiguous language function in both hemispheres. Results will be considered in relation to MSI activation in exclusively left language dominant cases and other neuropsychological variables. 1,5 Heike Schmolck, 1,2,3 Amit Verma, 1,2,3 Ian Goldsmith, 4 Daniel Yoshor, 4 Harvey Levin, 4 Michele K. York, 1,2,5 Perry J. Foreman, 1,2,3,6 Eli M. Mizrahi, and 1,5 Paul E. Schulz ( 1 Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, BCM, Houston, TX ; 3 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, BCM, Houston, TX ; 4 Neurosurgery, BCM, Houston, TX ; 5 Neurology, Michael DeBakey VAMC, Houston, TX ; and 6 Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, BCM, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Semantic Memory (SM) is impaired in neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., AD, FTD) or structural lesions affecting the lateral temporal cortex bilaterally (e.g., Herpes Encephalitis). The effect of unilateral lesions is less understood. Prior studies reported deficits in pre- as well as postsurgical temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients. These deficits have been suggested to be highly specific to the clinical difficulties experienced by TLE patients. Our goal is to study SM in patients before and after anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) to determine the effect of seizure laterality and the impact of surgery. Our specific aims are to investigate whether deficits in SM after ATL are related to the surgery or the TLE, to assess the magnitude of possible effects, and to determine whether dominant ATL represents a higher risk. Methods: We use 4 tests of semantic knowledge for 48 items. They test the ability to name an item when provided with either a picture or a description (confrontation naming, auditory naming), to provide a definition of the item, and to generate exemplars from a category (category fluency). We have cross-sectionally examined 14 pre-ATL and 18 post-ATL patients, and 8 controls. A prospective study arm is comparing performance before and after ATL in individual patients. Results: Both dominant and non-dominant TLE patients were impaired compared to controls, but the deficit in dominant TLE patients was more severe (ANCOVA IQ covariate, p < 0.05). Interestingly, surgical patients did significantly or marginally worse than presurgical patients on both naming tasks, but they performed better on the definitions task (p < 0.05). Surgical patients supplied more information about the items defined, whereas error rates were similar. Category fluency was also better in the ATL group. Overall performance remains impaired for TLE patients regardless of surgical status in reference to controls. Conclusions: This cross-sectional study found that SM was impaired before and after ATL, suggesting that ATL does not substantially alter SM. However, our prospective study will provide firmer conclusions regarding the impact of ATL on SM. SM was more impaired in dominant TLE. Postsurgical patients performed worse on confrontation naming but better on the definitions task; the latter is likely to be due to a nonspecific effect of improved fluency (less AEDs and less seizures) since error rates did not differ. (Supported by the Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of the Roger F. and Edna F. Evans Fund.) 1,2 Carol J. Schramke, 1 April A. Valeri, 1,2 James P. Valeriano, and 1,2 Kevin M. Kelly ( 1 Neurology, Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: This study compares patients with verified epileptic seizures (ES) and non epileptic seizure like events (NESLE), based on information obtained in clinical interviews, to determine which historical variables most reliably distinguish between these groups. Methods: All patients who were admitted for video EEG monitoring at Allegheny General Hospital between December 1998 and December 2004 and had a report, from at least 24 hours of video EEG monitoring, that suggested either an epileptic seizure or a non epileptic event were included. All patients admitted for monitoring were seen for a clinical interview by the first author. Data were coded based on that clinical interview including whether or not patients reported (1) pending litigation, (2) pending application for disability, (3) marital discord, (4) an unstable work history, (5) history of working in healthcare, (6) significant abuse or psychosocial stress during childhood, (7) history of sexual abuse, (8) current family conflict, (9) history of antisocial behavior, (10) history of delinquincy in childhood, (11) family history of seizures, (12) family history of mental health problems, CFS, or fibromyalgia, (13) family history of alcohol abuse, (14) incontinence during events, (15) history of self injury during an event, (16) events during sleep, (17) psychotropic medication at time of evaluation, (18) that events are related to stress, (19) history of psychiatric hospitalization, (20) history of panic disorder, (21) history of other anxiety disorder, (22) history of depression, and (23) history of other psychiatric diagnosis. Data were subjected to chi square analysis to determine whether there were significant between group differences. Results: Of the 153 reports of monitoring available for review, 65 recorded seizures and 56 recorded NESLE. In the other cases patients did not have events or events were not clearly classified. There were significant between group differences in patient report of (1) marital discord, (2) significant abuse or psychosocial stress during childhood, (3) history of sexual abuse, (4) family history of mental health problems, CFS, or fibromyalgia, (5) family history of alcohol abuse, (6) psychotropic medication at time of evaluation, (7) history of psychiatric hospitalization, (8) history of panic disorder, (9) history of other anxiety disorder, (10) history of depression, and (11) history of other psychiatric diagnosis. Conclusions: Many variables previously suggested to distinguish between patients with ES and NEE were not found to be significantly different in our two patient groups. The variables that did differ in the two groups suggest patients with NESLE are more likely to report histories of significant stress and abuse during childhood, current isues with relationships, and psychiatric diagnoses and treatment. 1 Alon Sinai, 1 Piotr J. Franaszczuk, and 1 Nathan E. Crone ( 1 Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Lexical semantic judgments are expected to depend on modality-specific, as well as amodal, lexical semantic processing. To verify the existence of these different components of lexical semantic processing, we used electrocorticographic (ECoG) recordings during a semantic relatedness task to measure event-related cortical activation with high spatial and temporal resolution. Methods: Having undergone surgical implantation of subdural electrode grids for the treatment of intractable epilepsy, six native English speakers (15?43 years old, mean 30 y.o.; 3 female, all left hemisphere dominant for language) judged whether sequentially presented pairs of words were semantically related or not, responding with a forced choice button press. Time-frequency analyses utilized matching pursuits to measure event-related ECoG spectral responses with respect to a 1-sec baseline preceding stimulus presentation. Word pairs were presented in either visual or auditory modalities during separate blocks. Event-related changes in frequency-specific signal energy were compared within subjects between conditions (visual/auditory; semantically related/non-related). Results: Event-related increases and decreases in ECoG signal energy were observed in a variety of frequency ranges, including increases in high gamma (>70 Hz) activity. Modality-specific event-related energy changes were observed in at least one recording site in all subjects. Modality-independent energy changes were observed in 5 of the 6 subjects. In 4 subjects event-related energy changes at some sites were significantly different for semantically related vs. unrelated word pairs. These findings were most prominent in left superior temporal gyrus, supramarginal gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus, and basal temporal cortex, as well as some of their right hemisphere counterparts. Conclusions: Lexical semantic processing occurs in both modality-specific, as well as amodal, cortical networks, distributed across cortical language regions in the dominant hemisphere, as well as in homologous regions of the nondominant hemisphere. (Supported by NINDS RO1-NS41598.) 1 Erik K. St. Louis, 1 Sean Mc Evoy, 1 Qian Chi Shi, and 1 Matthew Rizzo ( 1 Iowa Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine and University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; and Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA ) Rationale: Patients with epilepsy are at risk for automobile crashes. Cognitive effects of epilepsy and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may impair driving performance. Useful Field of View (UFOV) is a sensitive and specific predictor of automobile collisions. We analyzed UFOV in subjects with partial epilepsy. Methods: 20 partial epilepsy subjects (aged 21?61 years, mean = 41.5) and 50 neurologically normal controls (aged 24?56 years, mean = 39.3) participated. Epilepsy syndromes were temporal (n = 18; 12 had prior anterior temporal lobectomy) and extratemporal (n = 2). UFOV was assessed using the Visual Attention Analyzer, Model 3000 (Visual Resources, Inc.). UFOV Task 1 measures processing speed at central fixation. Task 2 analyzes divided attention between central and peripheral targets. Task 3 involves selective attention between a peripheral target and distracters. Task 4 is a more difficult discrimination task. The dependent measure is a threshold score (ms) for 75% correct target identification. Higher scores indicate poorer performance. UFOV Task scores were added to calculate a UFOV Total score for each subject. Results: UFOV scores were significantly higher on all UFOV tasks in subjects with partial epilepsy (Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test; see Table), indicative of impairments of processing speed, divided attention, and selective attention. Conclusions: UFOV scores are increased in subjects with partial epilepsy compared to neurologically normal individuals, suggesting a greater crash risk in individuals with partial epilepsy. Causes of impaired UFOV scores include reduced processing speed, divided and selective attention impairments, and mild superior quadrantic visual field deficits due to surgical lesions. Our future studies in drivers with epilepsy aim to further differentiate effects of seizures, AEDs, and lesions upon cognitive abilities critical to safe automobile driving. Useful field of view scores in partial epilepsy and neurologically normal subjects Epilepsy Subjects Control Subjects Sample Size 20 (11F, 9M) 50 (25F, 25M) Useful Field of View (msec) Mean (SD) Mean (SD) p-value UFOV Task 1 24.8 (36.6) 16.0 (0.00) ?0.0214 UFOV Task 2 55.1 (75.4) 24.9 (31.7) ?0.0008 UFOV Task 3 147.1 (101.5) 81.3 (48.5) ?0.0001 UFOV Task 4 269.9 (96.2)? 206.9 (76.8)? ?0.0075 UFOV Total Tasks 1?3 226.9 (193.8) 122.2 (76.5)? <0.0001 UFOV Total Tasks 1?4 496.8 (273.6) 329.1 (141.3) ?0.0019 SD: Standard Deviation. 1 Maria B. Viaggio, 1 Maria E. Fontela, 1 Veronica De Simone, and 1 Alfredo E. Thomson ( 1 Neurology Department, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: Epileptic patients have an increased risk of psychiatric comorbidity causing considerable burden and impact on quality of life. Prevalence of psychotic disorders in epilepsy is between 2?9%. Psychosis is more often classified according to the chronologic relation between the psychotic episode and the preceding seizure, i.e., ictal, postictal or interictal psychosis. The aim of this study is to characterize the clinical features and to evaluate the prevalence of psychotic disorders in our epileptic population. Methods: Clinical records of 370 epileptic patients evaluated in our section between 2002 and 2004 were review. Patients who presented psychotic disorders were included for analysis. Patients MRI, EEG recordings, demographic and clinical data were analyzed. Patients with: psychosis antedating epilepsy, history of substance abuse, other neurological disorder or symptoms related to AEDs, were excluded. Results: Twenty-six patients (7%) experienced psychosis. The mean age was 36 years old (SD:11.02) - Ictal Psychosis: Three patients (11.53%). All had localization related epilepsy with complex partial seizures (CPS). Psychosis and EEG discharges stopped with AEDs.The mean time of epilepsy diagnosis was 2.3 years (SD: 00.57) - Postictal psychosis: Seven patients (26.92%), 6 patients post status epilepticus and one post cluster of seizures. The mean interval between epilepsy and psychosis onset was 22.28 years (SD: 11.98). Five patients suffered CPS secondary to remote symptomatic epilepsy. Two patients had generalized seizures and idiophatic epilepsy. In all cases symptoms ceased within 7 days. - Interictal psychosis: Twenty patients (76.92%). The mean interval between onset of epilepsy and psychosis was 21 years (SD: 11.02). Most patients had remote symptomatic CPS. Seventeen patients showed focal interictally epileptiform discharges on EEG. Conclusions: Prevalence of psychotic disorders in our study are in accordance with previous studies. Our data also support that psychosis might be associated with CPS and remote symptomatic epilepsy. Interictal and postictal psychosis appears to be related to longstanding epilepsy. Adequate treatment of psychotic disorders is as important as seizure control for epilepsy management. Detecting and treating psychiatric comorbidities is required to help patients to achieve their maximal functional state and improve their quality of life. REFERENCES Kanner AM. Stagno S. Kotagel P. Postictal psychiatric events during prolonged video-electroencephalographic monitoring studies. Arch Neurol 1996;53: 258?263. Kanemoto K. Kawasaki J. Kawai I. Postictal psychosis: a comparison with acute interictal and chronic psychosis. Epilepsia 1996;37: 551?556. Onuma T. Adachi N. Ishida S., et al Prevalence and annual incidence of psychosis in patients with epilepsy. Epilepsia 1995;36 (suppl 3): S 218. Kanner AM. Barry J. Depression and psychotic disorders associated with epilepsy. Are they unique Epilepsy Behav 2001;2: 170?186. 1 Laura K. Vogtle, 1 Roy Martin, and 1 R. E. Faught ( 1 Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL; Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL; and Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: A significant proportion of adults with epilepsy are over the age of 60 (Hauser, 1992). Due to health issues related to advancing age, epilepsy and side effects of AEDs, aspects of quality of life are a concern for this population. A comparison of quality of life issues between a sample of elderly with and without epilepsy is described. Methods: Thirty elderly adults 60 years of age and older without epilepsy (EA) (12 males, 17 females) were compared to a sample of 27 elderly adults with epilepsy (EAE) (14 males, 11 females). All subjects were living independently in the community. EA were older (M = 71.97 SD = 5.48) than EAE (M = 64.41 SD = 3.81). Inclusion criteria for EAE were a seizure occurrence within the last 12 months and seizure disorder not resulting from stroke or TBI. Quality of life was assessed using the Older Americans Resource Survey (Fillenbaum, 1988), a self-report instrument containing 5 subscales (social resources, economic resources, mental health, physical health, ADL) and a cumulative score. Results: Three subscales of the OARS showed significantly lower scores for EAE; mental health, physical health, and ADL scores (see Table 1). Additionally, EAE were significantly more likely to be dependent on others for transportation (U = .001) and EA were more likely to have hearing impairments (U = .02). Conclusions: Assessment outcomes reveal poorer quality of life in EAE in the areas of mental and physical health and activities of daily living, in spite of the fact that the EAE sample was considerably younger than the EA comparison group. These findings underscore the need for further study regarding quality of life issues in EAE, particularly aspects of physical and mental health and their impact on a person's ability to manage personal care (ADL). Such findings may also reflect a need to provide careful follow-up and education in aspects of care such as medication compliance with EAE. (Supported by Center for Disease Control and Prevention.) Older Americans Resources Survey Comparison Subscale Mean Score Significance Social Resources ?EA ?1.55 .097 ?EAE ?1.93 Economic Resources ?EA ?2.34 .39? ?EAE ?2.11 Mental Health ?EA ?1.90 ?.03*? ?EAE ?2.37 Physical Health ?EA ?2.72 ?.05*? ?EAE ?3.19 ADL ?EA ?1.55 ?.02*? ?EAE ?2.07 Cumulative rating scale ?EA 10.14 ?.08? ?EAE 11.67 *p < .05. 1 Robert T. Wechsler, 2 John J. Barry, 2 Kim D. Bullock, 3 Patrick D. MacLeamy, and 1 Robert S. Fisher ( 1 Neurology, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ; 2 Psychiatry, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ; and 3 PGSP-Stanford Psy.D Consortium, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ) Rationale: Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) are commonly encountered during evaluations for refractory epilepsy. Treatment for this debilitating condition centers on various forms of psychotherapy. Group therapy may be an effective therapeutic strategy, particularly in combination with individual therapy. Outcome in therapeutic trials have focused mainly on measures of event frequency or quality of life, which can be influenced by comorbid physical, psychological, and social factors. Changes in the subjective quality of PNES in response to therapy have received relatively little attention. Methods: The authors devised a preliminary, retrospective study to assess the impact of group therapy in combination with individual therapy on subjective measures of PNES including frequency, intensity, duration, and semiology. Questionnaires focusing on subjective measures were completed by 7 of 10 participants in Psychodynamic Group Therapy (PDT) and 4 of 6 in Cognitive Behavioral Group Therapy (CBT). Participants had long-standing history of refractory PNES. Results: Mean duration of participation was 16.7 months in PDT group and 6.4 months in CBT group. Two of 7 PGT respondents stopped having PNES. Of the 9 respondents who continued having PNES, 7 felt their events were less disabling, 6 reported improvement in frequency, 6 reported less intense events, 5 reported shorter events, 5 characterized events as less severe, 2 reported change in semiology, and 2 noted less cognitive impairment during events. Eight of 9 with persistent PNES had multiple event types. Five of these 8 reported a change in relative proportion of event types with decrease of more disabling events. Conclusions: This preliminary study reveals improvement in the subjective experience of PNES within the context of group therapy. Participants who continued to have PNES experienced fewer, less intense, and subjectively less disabling events. This preliminary retrospective study raises the possibility that measures of the subjective experience of PNES may be useful for assessing progress in psychotherapeutic interventions. Further similar analyses using validated tools and prospective designs may be of value. 1 Michael Westerveld, 1 Kimberly R. Stoddard, 2 John T. Langfitt, 3 William Barr, 1 Dennis D. Spencer, and 4 Susan S. Spencer ( 1 Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 2 Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY ; 3 Neurology, New York University (NYU), New York, NY ; and 4 Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Although there have been numerous previous studies reporting memory outcome following temporal lobectomy, these studies typically do not follow patients for periods greater than one-two years after surgery. Consequently, little is known about long-term (i.e., more than 2 years post-surgery) cognitive outcome following temporal lobectomy. Variables that relate to outcome, particularly long-term seizure control, have also not been studied. The current study reports on the verbal memory outcome for patients enrolled in a multi-center, prospective epilepsy surgery outcome study. Methods: A total of 80 patients who had reached the 5 year post-surgical date and for whom follow-up memory data were available are included in this report. Patients were enrolled in the multicenter study of epilepsy surgery (MSES), and underwent neuropsychological testing as part of their pre-surgical evaluation, follow-up testing at two years post-surgery, and again at 5 years following surgery. Neuropsychological evaluation included general cognitive ability (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale), and verbal memory testing (California Verbal Learning Test). Results: Neuropsychological testing at baseline revealed no significant pre-operative differences in Verbal, Performance or Full Scale IQ scores between the right and left TL surgery groups. Interestingly, there was no significant difference in the baseline verbal memory testing between the right and left TL groups. Repeated measures ANOVA reveals a trend toward better verbal memory outcome among patients with at least one 3 year remission period (p = .07), regardless of side of surgery. There is no significant main effect for side of surgery, but there was a significant interaction between time, side of surgery, and seizure outcome. While patients who underwent successful right temporal lobectomy (defined as at least 3 year seizure free period during follow-up) had the best verbal memory outcome, patients undergoing right temporal lobectomy that did not have a 3 year remission had the worst memory outcome, and were comparable to the left TL group without a 3 year remission. Post-hoc analysis also revealed that 3 of the 4 groups declined between the 2 year and 5 year outcome points. Conclusions: These results reveal that patients undergoing temporal lobectomy continue to evidence evolving changes in cognitive function 5 years after surgery. Although seizure outcome is a key factor, other variables also play a role, including side of surgery and baseline level of function. These findings indicate that patients may remain vulnerable to verbal memory declines as long as 5 years following temporal lobectomy. (Supported by NIH Grant Number 2 R01 NS32375-06.) 1,3 David J. Williamson, 2 Daniel L. Drane, 2 Elizabeth S. Stroup, 1,2 Alan Wilensky, 2 Mark D. Holmes, and 2 John W. Miller ( 1 Scientific Affairs, Janssen Medical Affairs, LLC, Titusville, NJ ; 2 School of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 3 Neurology, University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL ) Rationale: Recent investigations have demonstrated that the majority of patients with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) perform in the invalid range on tests designed to detect valid effort on neurocognitive testing (Williamson et al., 2003, 2004). However, a small percentage of patients with video-telemetry confirmed epilepsy also fail symptom validity testing (SVT), including some without evidence of somatoform disorder or apparent motivation to perform in a suboptimal manner. There are inconsistent findings about the extent to which recent epileptiform activity influences neurocognitive performance (Aldenkamp & Arends, 2004). Clinically, we noted that patients with epilepsy who experienced seizures within the past 24 hours seemed more likely to fail symptom validity testing. We investigated this matter in a more systematic fashion to determine the extent to which recent seizure activity may compromise the validity of neurocognitive findings. Methods: Sixty-three patients referred for continuous video-EEG monitoring for evaluation of uncontrolled seizures at the University of Washington were administered the Word Memory Test as part of a comprehensive epilepsy neuropsychological evaluation. Only patients classified on the basis of their ictal EEG recordings and behavioral presentation as experiencing epileptic seizures were included in the study. In order to screen out patients with known cognitive deficits severe enough to decrease the likelihood of normal performance on SVT, patients unable to live independently were excluded. Results: Of the patients who failed SVT, 75% had suffered a seizure within the preceding 24-hour period. ROC analysis suggests that simply knowing that a patient had suffered a seizure within the preceding 24 hours significantly improves one's ability to predict whether they will fail SVT (p = .03). These findings appear to be particularly true for patients diagnosed with complex partial seizures: 3/8 patients with complex-partial seizures with a right-sided focus who had suffered a recent seizure failed (vs. 0/8 who had not seized), whereas 5/8 patients with a recent left-sided focal seizure failed (vs. 0/8 who had not seized). Conclusions: Based upon these preliminary data, it appears that suffering a seizure within 24 hours of neurocognitive testing may place a sizeable proportion of patients with epilepsy at risk for failing SVT, particularly if a patient suffers from complex partial seizures. Given the demonstrated relationship between failed SVT and improbably poor scores on neurocognitive testing in epilepsy and other populations, this may have important implications for clinical decision-making based upon such test results. 1 Pezhman M. Zadeh, 1 Adriana E. Palade, and 1 John F. Brick ( 1 Neurology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV ) Rationale: Posterior Communicating Artery Wada for memory evaluation is rarely done. The presurgical internal carotid artery Wada for memory evaluation provides sufficient information in many patients with medically intractable epilepsy. We report five cases in which performance of posterior communicating artery Wada helped us evaluate the hippocampus involvement in memory function, after the Internal Carotid Artery WADA injection demonstrated that patients may be at risk for memory loss if mesiotemporal structures would be removed. Methods: In the five patients bilateral internal carotid artery injection of amobarbital was performed with concurrent EEG recording. Subsequently patients had language and memory evaluation done by Neuropsycology team. The evaluation of memory function suggested bihemispheric memory representation, with the concern that the patients may experience memory decline after ipsilateral resection of mesiotemporal structures.Additional testing with amobarbital injected in the ipsilateral posterior communicating artery supplying the hippocampus was done, with additional small amounts of amobarbital being needed until patient developed a visual field cut. Results: Clinically, patients were evaluated for development of homonymous hemianopsia which suggests adequate posterior communicating artery injection. In all of the cases the concurrent EEG recording showed minimal background slowing of the hemisphere being injected. Additional memory testing was performed and demonstrated good memory support in the remaining hemisphere not supplied by PCA and in the contralateral hemisphere therefore allowing safe resection of the tested hippocampus. Post-surgical follow up with Neuropsychological testing did not demonstrate any memory impairment. Conclusions: Inconclusive bilateral carotid Wada testing does not disqualify the patients with intractable epilepsy from being a good candidate for surgical resection of mesiotemporal structures. Posterior communicating artery Wada is very useful in assessing involvement of hippocampus in memory function.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reckless, J. P. D.
AU  - Henry, P.
AU  - Pomykaj, T.
AU  - Lim, S. T.
AU  - Massaad, R.
AU  - Vandormael, K.
AU  - Johnson-Levonas, A. O.
AU  - Lis, K.
AU  - Brudi, P.
AU  - Allen, C.
TI  - Lipid-altering efficacy of ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg compared with doubling the statin dose in patients admitted to the hospital for a recent coronary event: the INFORCE study
JO  - International Journal of Clinical Practice
VL  - 62
IS  - 4
SN  - 1368-5031
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01697.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01697.x
SP  - 539
EP  - 554
PY  - 2008
AB  - Summary Background:? The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety profile of switching to ezetimibe/simvastatin (Eze/Simva) 10/40?mg compared with doubling the statin dose upon discharge in patients taking a statin and admitted to the hospital for the investigation of a coronary event. Design:? This phase IV, multi-centre, randomised, open-label, active-controlled, parallel group study enrolled 424 patients (aged?≥?18?years) hospitalised for an acute coronary event and taking a stable dose of a statin (≥?6?weeks) that could be doubled per the product label. Upon discharge from the hospital, patients were stratified by their statin dose/potency (high, medium and low) and randomised 1?:?1 to doubling of the statin dose (n?=?211) or Eze/Simva 10/40?mg (n?=?213) for 12?weeks. The primary efficacy variable was the absolute low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) value (mmol/l) at study end-point. Results:? Mean baseline LDL-C for the two treatment groups were 2.48 and 2.31?mmol/l for the Eze/Simva and statin groups respectively. At study end-point, least squares mean LDL-C values were 1.74?mmol/l in the Eze/Simva group and 2.22?mmol/l in the statin group resulting in a significant between-group difference of ?0.49?mmol/l (p?≤?0.001). Eze/Simva 10/40?mg also produced significantly lower total cholesterol (?0.49?mmol/l), non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [(non-HDL-C); ?0.53?mmol/l] and apolipoprotein B (?0.14?mmol/l) values compared with doubling the statin dose (p?≤?0.001 for all). Both treatments produced similar effects on triglycerides, C-reactive protein and HDL-C; the between treatment group differences were not significant (p?≥?0.160). Significantly more patients achieved LDL-C levels <?2.5 (<?100?mg/dl; 86% vs. 72%), <?2.0 (<?77?mg/dl; 70% vs. 42%) and <?1.8?mmol/l (<?70?mg/dl; 60% vs. 31%) with Eze/Simva than statin (all p?≤?0.001). Eze/Simva was generally well tolerated, with a safety profile similar to statin. There were no differences in the incidences of liver transaminases ≥?3???upper limit of normal (ULN) or creatine kinase ≥?10???ULN between the groups. Conclusions:? In patients taking a statin and admitted to the hospital for investigation of a coronary event, treatment with Eze/Simva 10/40?mg for 12?weeks produced greater improvements in lipids with a similar safety profile compared with doubling of the statin dose.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Berger, Rachel P.
AU  - Houle, Jean-Francois
AU  - Hayes, Ronald L.
AU  - Wang, Kevin K.
AU  - Mondello, Stefania
AU  - Bell, Michael J.
TI  - Translating Biomarkers Research to Clinical Care: Applications and Issues for Rehabilomics
JO  - PM&R
JA  - PM&R
VL  - 3
IS  - 6S
SN  - 1934-1482
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmrj.2011.03.016
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.pmrj.2011.03.016
SP  - S31
EP  - S38
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Traumatic brain injury is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in adults and children in the United States. Despite steady improvement in our understanding of the pathophysiology of acquired brain injuries, there has been remarkably little improvement in brain injury therapies and/or pharmacologic treatments over the past decade. One of the reasons may be the inability to properly stratify subjects for clinical trials and/or to have real-time assessment of the effectiveness of a given intervention. It has been recognized for several decades that serum biomarkers may allow for more objective subject stratification as well as act as surrogate markers of treatment efficacy. Despite numerous studies, however, biomarkers are not currently part of clinical practice in either acquired brain injury or other neurologic or musculoskeletal disorders. The goals of this review article, therefore, are to use traumatic brain injury as a example to discuss the use of biomarkers in clinical and randomized controlled trials; to briefly discuss the field of neuroproteomics and its interface with neurologic interventions; and to provide an overview of the collaborative pathway between academia and industry, which needs to be an integral part of the translation of biomarkers from the bench to the bedside in any clinical population. Introduction of the concept of rehabilomics and implications of biomarker use for the physical medicine and rehabilitation physician also are discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chua, Su-Kiat
AU  - Lo, Huey-Ming
AU  - Chiu, Chiung-Zuan
AU  - Shyu, Kou-Gi
AU  - Taiwan ACS Full Spectrum Registry Investigators
C8  - NEP-2015-0518.R2
TI  - Prognostic impact of renal dysfunction in patients with acute coronary syndrome—role beyond the CHA2DS2-VASc score: Data from Taiwan acute coronary syndrome full spectrum registry
JO  - Nephrology
JA  - Nephrology
VL  - 21
IS  - 7
SN  - 1320-5358
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nep.12653
DO  - doi:10.1111/nep.12653
SP  - 583
EP  - 591
KW  - CHA2DS2-VASc score
KW  - death
KW  - myocardial infarction
KW  - Renal dysfunction
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Aim CHA2DS2-VASc score has been proven to have great prognostic value in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We aimed to determine whether the addition of renal dysfunction in the CHA2DS2-VASc score would improve the prognostic impact of the scoring system to predict prognosis among ACS patients. Methods A total of 3031 ACS patients were prospectively enrolled at 39 hospitals and followed for 1 year. The patients were divided into three groups based on estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (group 1, eGFR>90; group 2, eGFR between 60 and 90; and group 3, eGFR<60 mL/min per 1.73 m2). The occurrence of subsequent myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, or death was recorded. Results As renal function progressively decreased from group 1 to 3, the patients were, respectively older and had higher incidence of comorbidity, worse Killip classification, and less evidence-based medical therapies. The rate of subsequent MI, stroke or death increased from 3.4% in group 1 to 7.4% in group 2 and 17.2% in group 3 (P?< 0.001). Renal dysfunction (eGFR<60 mL/min per 1.73 m2) and CHA2DS2-VASc scores were both significant predictors of adverse events in multivariable regression analyses. Renal dysfunction can further stratify patients with CHA2DS2-VASc score of 0 or 1 into 3 groups with different adverse event rates (group 1, 3.0%; group 2, 4.1%; and group 3, 9.2%, P?< 0.001). A new scoring system (R-CHA2DS2-VASc score) derived by assigning one more point for eGFR ≤ 60 mL/min per 1.73 m2 to the CHA2DS2-VASc score could improve its predictive accuracy (area under the receiver operating curve, 0.70 vs. 0.66, P?< 0.001). Conclusions Renal dysfunction is a significant risk factor of future adverse events in ACS patients and may improve the prognostic impact of the CHA2DS2-VASc score.
ER  - 

AU  - Mercer, Roxanne
AU  - Wilkinson, David S.
C7  - pp. 71-83
TI  - Current Challenges to Financial Stability within the Diagnostic Laboratory
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1128/9781555817282.ch4
DO  - doi:10.1128/9781555817282.ch4
SP  - 71-83
KW  - diagnostic laboratory
KW  - financial stability
KW  - generational diversity
KW  - medicare program
KW  - on-the-job training program
KW  - shrinking reimbursement
KW  - unfunded mandate
KW  - work flow
KW  - workforce resource
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary The economics of healthcare today challenge clinical laboratories nationwide to provide quality service and patient results in spite of decreasing resources. Decreasing reimbursement for patient testing and dwindling staff resources require the laboratorian to ?do more with less.? One must be aware of one's professional environment and be creative to utilize the existing resources effectively and efficiently. In many cases, this will require a laboratory environment of constant and major change. This chapter addresses some of these issues and their financial implications. Automation, computerization, point-of- care testing (POCT), and robotics will allow a more integrated, systemwide approach to providing high-quality laboratory services in support of patient care. Laboratory networks and multi-hospital systems may achieve economies of scale. There has been a steady increase in regulatory control of the healthcare industry by both federal and state governments. This increase in regulation extends to all clinical laboratories supporting both inpatients and outpatients. Government compliance regulations as well as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) rules have resulted in unplanned expenses for clinical laboratories and hospitals to modify existing computer systems and even add personnel to help meet the regulations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: EEG–Video Monitoring
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781555817275
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_4.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_4.x
SP  - 23
EP  - 34
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Elaine C. Wirrell, and 2 Christina Cheung ( 1 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Faculty of Medicine, Queens University, Kingston, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Adolescent perception of physical and social impact of chronic illness was assessed to determine a) is there greater prejudice toward epilepsy than other chronic disease, b) do adolescents with chronic disease have less prejudice towards similarly affected peers with all, or just their specific chronic disease. Methods: Cohort study. Setting: Outpatient clinics of a tertiary care pediatric hospital. Participants: Cognitively normal teens aged 13?18 without chronic disease (n = 41) and with epilepsy (n = 32), asthma (n = 38), diabetes (n = 21) and migraine (n = 17). Main Outcome Measures: Perceived physical and social impact of 8 chronic diseases (epilepsy, asthma, diabetes, Down's syndrome, arthritis, migraine, leukemia, HIV infection). Results: Epilepsy was perceived to have more adverse physical impact than all chronic illnesses except Down's syndrome. The perception was that it more frequently caused mental handicap, injured the afflicted individual and bystanders and led to death. Epilepsy was also perceived to have more negative social impact particularly on behavior, honesty, popularity, adeptness at sports and fun. Significantly more adolescents' expressed reluctance to befriend peers with epilepsy both from their own and their perceived parental perspectives. Having a chronic disease did not generally alter adolescents' perceptions of peers with chronic disease. However cases with epilepsy ranked this disease to have less social impact than teens with other chronic diseases. Conclusions: Adolescents consider epilepsy to have a greater physical and social impact than most chronic diseases. Educational efforts should focus on the ?normality? of most persons with epilepsy, and emphasize the low risk of injury when proper first aide is followed. 1 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 Veriano Alexandre Jr., 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Roger Walz, 1 Charles L. Dalmagro, 1 Regina M.F. Fernandes, 1 Juliana S. Lage, and 1 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology, CIREP, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Fourteen and six positive spiking is an electroencephalographic phenomenon first described by Gibbs and Gibbs in 1951 as bursts of arch-shaped surface positive waves at 14  and 2 Department of Neurology, Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center, Winston-Salem, NC ) Rationale: Bradycardia and asystole occurring during seizures are thought to be possible risk factors for SUDEP in patients with epilepsy. Pacemaker implantation has been carried out in most patients because of concerns of potential cardiac morbidity and mortality. Literature review of patients reported to have ictal asystole and pacemakers implanted show them to have a long history of seizures and better control of seizures following diagnosis and change in treatment resulting in lack of pacemaker activation. We report a patient with ictal asystole on VEEG who failed prior montherapy that was subsequently treated with Levetiracetam (LEV) and did not undergo pacemaker implantation. Methods: The case is a 27 year old female with a 4 year history of spells consisting of an aura of deja vu and fear followed by loss of consciousness for less than 30 seconds. She was also described as becoming limp with tongue biting and incontinence but no tonic clonic activity. Due to lack of response to Topiramate and need to characterize spells, she underwent VEEG monitoring. Results: VEEG recording of 2 events were done. The two events were preceded by tachycardia which was up to 200 beats per minute(bpm) followed by asystole for 20 seconds in one and tachycardia of 120 bpms followed by bradycardia of 30 seconds in the other. (VEEG will be shown at meeting).There was brief right temporal theta seziure activity seen preceding the second event. SPECT injection was normal. The patient was placed on LEV and underwent a Reveal Loop recorder implantation for continuous EKG recording. The patient has been seizure free for 6 months with no cardiac arrhythmias detected. Conclusions: Ictal asystole has not been associated with increased mortality from epilepsy. The occurrence of asystole during seizures in patients with longstanding epilepsy and reports that seizures may respond to antiepileptic medication supports this concept. Patterns of heart rate change leading to ictal asystole appear unique and will be discussed. Further studies looking at larger numbers of patients with comprehensive cardiac evaluation are needed to further understand the concept of SUDEP rather than single aspects such as bradyarrhythmias. This case suggests that ictal asystole may not necessitate pacemaker implantation. 1 Luis Otavio S. Caboclo, 1 Henrique Carrete Jr., 1 Ricardo S. Centeno, 1 Elza Marcia T. Yacubian, and 1,2 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Universidade Federal de S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Universidade de S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and unilateral severe hippocampal sclerosis (HS) may have contralateral temporal scalp ictal onset. This has recently been called ?burned-out hippocampus,? which is believed to be a rare entity (1). In this study we report four patients with unilateral hippocampal sclerosis and contralateral ictal onset registered by scalp-sphenoidal electrodes. We discuss the importance of such cases in pre-surgical evaluation of patients with TLE, as well as possible strategies used for evaluation of these particular cases. Methods: We reviewed charts from all patients with TLE submitted to pre-surgical evaluation, which included high resolution MRI and prolonged video-EEG monitoring, during a two-year period (2003?2004). We searched for patients who only had seizures that were clearly contralateral in location to the atrophic hippocampus. Results: Four patients fulfilled the criteria above. All four had unilateral HS with severely atrophic hippocampus, confirmed by volumetric measures. Two of these patients went through semi-invasive video-EEG monitoring with foramen ovale (FO) electrodes, which revealed seizures originating from the atrophic hippocampus, hence confirming false lateralization in the scalp EEG. These patients were submitted to surgical treatment ? anterior temporal lobectomy ? and had favorable prognosis after surgery. The other two patients are still going through pre-surgical evaluation. Conclusions: Burned-out hippocampus syndrome may not be as rare as it was previously believed. Further studies will be necessary before one can affirm that patients with unilateral HS and scalp ictal EEG showing contralateral ictal onset may be operated without confirmation of the epileptogenic zone by invasive monitoring. In these patients, semi-invasive monitoring with FO electrodes might be an interesting alternative. REFERENCE 1.?Mintzer S, Cendes F, Soss J, Andermann F, Engel J Jr., Dubeau F, Olivier A, Fried I. Unilateral hippocampal sclerosis with contralateral temporal scalp ictal onset. Epilepsia 2004;45: 792?802. (Supported by FAPESP (Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo) and CAPES (Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior)/CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico).) 1 David R. Chabolla ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: To determine if whispering or feeble motor displays in response to commands during the initial post-ictal recovery of responsiveness can help to differentiate epileptic from psychogenic seizures. Methods: Video-EEG recordings from 100 consecutive adult admissions to the EMU during 2003 and 2004 were reviewed. The medical history and clinical follow-up after EMU dismissal were also reviewed. Cases were divided into three diagnostic categories: 1) epileptic seizures (ES), 2) physiological events (phyE) that included movement disorders, parasomnias, and syncope, 3) psychogenic nonepileptic seizure (pNES) that included the somatoform, dissociative, and anxiety disorders with panic attacks. Cases without a recorded spell or with only brief subjective symptoms without loss of responsiveness were excluded from the analysis. Specific attention was paid to the behaviors occurring during the first 1 to 2 minutes of verbal and motor responsiveness in the post-ictal recovery phase. Whispery verbal responses were identified by low volume, soft speech using breath instead of phonation. A feeble motor response to command involved movement of the correct limb in a manner lacking force, strength, or effectiveness and typically not completing the task. Results: Twenty five (25%) had pNES, 43 (43%) had ES, 9 (9%) had phyE, and 23 (23%) had no recorded symptoms or only brief subjective symptoms without loss of responsiveness. PNES cases consisted of 21 (84%) somatoform or dissociative disorder (all females) and 4 (16%) anxiety disorder with panic attacks (1 female). No cases of malingering or facticious disorder were diagnosed. The 25 pNES patients experienced approximately 240 events (range 1?22/patient). The initial 1 to 2 minutes of verbal or motor response in the post-ictal recovery phase were associated with whispering or feeble motor responses to command in 16 (21%) of all cases and 76% of pNES cases due to a somatoform or dissociative disorder. These signs were not seen in any of the panic disorder, phyE, or ES cases. In 132 (73%) of the seizures in patients with a somatoform or dissociative disorder, both seizures with motor manifestations as well as those with loss of responsiveness without motor manifestations, one or both of these signs were observed. The 5 pNES patients who did not display a whispery voice or feeble movements, and did not have a panic disorder, showed previously reported signs of indifference, telegraphic speech, or regression to child-like speech patterns post-ictally. Conclusions: Psychogenic seizures due to somatoform or dissociative disorders are commonly associated with the presence of a whispery voice or feeble motor responses to commands during the initiation of post-ictal recovery of responsiveness. These signs were not commonly seen after epileptic seizures. A prospective study of a larger population would be helpful to determine the predictive value of these signs. 1 William S. Corrie, and 1 Venkata V. Jakkampudi ( 1 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Individuals contemplating admission to an epilepsy monitoring unit wish an estimate of the time they should plan to stay and the likelihood that the stay will lead to a diagnosis. We sought to provide data that will aid in answering these questions. Methods: We reviewed all patients 18 years or older who were referred for diagnosis of seizures and seizure-like behavior in the last five years. From admission history and descriptions of witnesses, we defined a particular seizure pattern or behavior pattern as the event we were asked to assess. We call this the ?target event.? Most patients had all anticonvulsant medications discontinued beginning with the morning dose on the day of admission. Some did not take medications with long half-lives for a longer period before admission. Sometimes, we are asked to identify the nature of a new pattern that occurs with patients on medications, and these patients continue their home medications. On occasion, we found that the ?target event? was non-epileptic, on other occasions it was epileptic. Some patients had additional ?non-target? events. We considered an admission as ?not successful? when we did not record the event that represented the current chief complaint and/or the event that the patient's physician needed clarified. Results: We found 180 men and 352 women who were monitored as described above. We observed ?target events? in 316 of them. Duration of monitoring was variable. Thus, we report the patients having their first ?target event? in a day as a percentage of patients who entered that day without having one in an earlier session. We found that 27.8% had a ?target event? on the first day, 13% within the first six hours. The second day, 25.7% had their first event; the third day, 18.6%; the fourth day, 17.1% and 10.0%on the fifth day. Although we recorded only twenty patients yet to have an event on the sixth day, two of them had their first target event on that day. Conclusions: A single day of monitoring will only lead to a diagnosis in about one quarter of admitted adult patients. Three days of monitoring will provide at least one diagnostic event in about one half of the patients. If we recorded no ?target events? after four days of monitoring, we have a chance of recording such data in only 10% of these remaining patients. This suggests that four days of monitoring may be a point of diminishing returns. 1,2 Maria Luiza C. Dal-Cól, 2 Vera Cristina Terra-Bustamante, 2 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 José Antônio C. De Oliveira, 1,2 Poliana Bertti, 2 Américo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Norberto Garcia-Cairasco ( 1 Physiology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Psychiatry and Psychology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo - FMRP/USP, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The aim of this work was to differentiate behavioral pattern of human right (RTLE) and left (LTLE) temporal lobe seizures with a neuroethological method used and validated in our laboratory for animal models of epilepsy. Methods: We analyzed 14 seizures of 7 patients in each group. Patients were monitorized at CIREP/FMRP/USP between 1997 and 2002. Videos were observed and all patients' behaviors annotated second/second. Data were analyzed using Ethomatic software and displayed as flowcharts including frequency, duration and sequential dyads statistic interaction. (X2≥10.827; >p < 0.001). Results: Pre-ictal period of both goups were similar, with patients awakened or sleeping. In this case, awakening was the starting point of a seizure. Behaviors as ictal speech; mouth, throat and abdominal clonia; positive verbal command for speech (VC+S) and normal speech (FANO); deglutition automatism; beak and left upper limb paresis; face and eye right hand wiping occurred only in RTLE group. Left hand automatism; eye deviation to the right; right hand tonic posture and relaxing and right upper limb immobility occurred only in LTLE group. Behaviors that happened mostly in the RTLE group: positive verbal command for action (VC+A; 69,2%); left hand dystonia (81,81%); global movements (71,43%). Mostly in the LTLE group: negative verbal command (VC-; 79,41%), right hand dystonia (76,92%), hip raising (70,97%), left cephalic deviation (69,23%) and left leg automatisms (76,19%). Interaction analysis showed strong interaction (interactions shown, p < 0,001) between global tonic contraction, tremor and global clonic contraction in the LTLE group and more variable clonic and tonic postures in the RTLE, with prominence to left hemibody tonic postures or clonic movements. In the LTLE group we can verify right hand dystonia, and in the RTLE group, an interesting progression from left hand dystonia to left leg dystonia. In the post ictal period, patients from RTLE group present great interaction between CIREP equip questions (INRE) and VC+A, besides VC+S and FANO. In the LTLE group, interactions are mostly between INRE and VC-. Other interesting feature of the RTLE group is eye, mouth, nose and face wiping with the right hand. Conclusions: We confirmed various behaviors with lateralizatory value described in the literature. Also, recording of all behaviors second-by-second permits the observation of novel behaviors that may have predictive value. Interaction analysis permits the observation of possible preferential spread circuits, such as the progression of dystonia or seizure generalization. Studies with other epileptic syndroms are planned. (Supported by FAPESP, CNPq, FAEPA, PROAP-CAPES, PRONEX and FAEPA.) 1 Martin Del Campo, 1 Richard Wennberg, 2 Taufik Valiante, and 3 Richard Farb ( 1 Neurology, Krembil Neuroscience Centre, University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada ; 2 Neurosurgery ; and 3 Medical Imaging ) Rationale: In the presurgical EEG evaluation of patients with epilepsy it is often necessary to conduct intracranial recordings (IR), the purpose of which is to accurately localize the epileptogenic zone(s) when surface recordings are insufficient. Reported morbidity includes infection, cerebral edema and hemorrhage. However, the relevant literature has not emphasized the possibility of falsely localizing data produced by transient focal seizures (TFS) that may appear early in the post-implantation phase and spontaneously subside. Published reports are scant and sometimes in journals not likely to be read by epileptologists. Methods: Once aware of the possibility of transient epileptogenic foci associated with subdural electrode placement (Clin Neurophysiol 1999; 110:419?23), we examined 26 consecutive patients undergoing IR. Visual analysis of the IR was performed by MdC and/or RW. The simultaneous video data was analyzed and patients were questioned about any symptoms surrounding the times during which TFS occurred. Brain CT/MRI and direct observation at the time of surgery was carried out to look for blood or any other change associated with the presence of TFS during the IR. Results: Seventeen of the 26 patients were implanted with subdural grid and/or strip electrodes. The remainder had depth electrodes. Three patients developed TFS distant from the ultimately identified clinically relevant epileptogenic zone. Localized near the border regions of subdural grids, these TFS were very frequent at first and subsided within 3 days of implantation. Thin layers of blood were found underlying the grids on CT or at surgery. Another patient had morphologically distinct TFS recorded from a basal temporal subdural strip which subsided after evacuation of a subdural hematoma in the area. Clinically relevant seizures appeared 3 days later arising from the same region but exhibiting very different electrographic features. None of the 4 patients was symptomatic or demonstrated any behavioural changes during the TFS which lasted up to 8 minutes, preceeded by long periods of continuous rhythmic spike or sharp wave activity. Conclusions: Transient areas of focal epileptogenesis may develop as a discrete irritative phenomenon distant from areas of clinical relevance. This occurred in our patients in association with the presence of blood under subdural grids or strips. Recognition of this infrequent complication of IR will avoid mislocalization of areas to be included in surgical resection. It is also important that patients not be inappropriately denied surgery should TFS appear close to eloquent cortex or as one of several foci. The occurence of frequent focal electrographic seizures preceeded by long periods of rhythmic spiking early in the post-implantation period should alert the electroencephalographer to this phenomenon and the likely presence of subdural blood in the region. 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 1 Mark D. Holmes ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Investigators commonly identify epileptic seizures (EPI) and psychological non-epileptic events (NES) during EEG monitoring, but in most cases no reference is made to reports of ?seizures? by patients which are purely subjective (SUB) and which have neither EEG nor clinical changes. This is true even though there is the recent suggestion in the literature that SUB (Epilepsia 1998; 39:857?862) is both important and largely independent of EPI and NES. Methods: All 857 adults (age 16?76) with EEG monitoring (average of 5.83 days) during an 8.5 year period were included. All were reported to have episodes which possibly or probably represent epilepsy. Monitoring established the nature of the episodes reported, and suitability for various forms of treatment including surgery. All patients had also completed the WAIS-R, much or all of an expanded Halstead-Reitan neuropsychological battery, the MMPI, and the WPSI (Washington Psychosocial Seizure Inventory). The types of events and their frequencies among the 857 patients were as follows: EPI only 298; NES only 120; SUB only 128; EPIL+SUB 135; SUB+NES 51; EPIL+NES 13; EPIL+NES+SUB 7; no events of any type, 106. ANOVAs run across the groups with one type of event and with two types events on the variables of interest constituted the primary analyses. Results: Biodata variables evaluated included age (no differences across the groups), gender (SUB and NES were similar with about 70% female; EPI 50%; p < .001), and years of education (SUB slightly but not significantly better educated than NES and EPI). Medical history/monitoring variables included age at onset of seizures (EPI much earlier than NES and SUB which were similar; p < .001), psychiatric history (NES and SUB similar and much higher than EPI; p < .001), neurological history other than seizures (n.s.), total episodes recorded during monitoring (n.s.), and days of monitoring required (SUB > NES, EPI intermediate; p < .001). Mental ability variables showed EPI patients to be below NES and SUB in many cases, with SUB often being slightly but non-significantly better than NES. WAIS-R VIQ, PIQ, FSIQ, and overall percent of neuropsychological tests outside normal limits were all significantly different across the groups (p < .01?p < .001). Emotional adjustment variables from the MMPI showed SUB to be more depressed than NES and EPI (p < .001) but with similar scores which were higher than EPI on scales emphasizing somatic focus and unusual thought patterns (p < .01?p < .001). Psychosocial variables from the WPSI showed scores which were worse for SUB than for either NES or EPI (Family Background, p < .001; Emotional Adjustment, p < .001; Overall Psychosocial Adjustment, p < .01). Conclusions: Reports of ?seizures? during EEG monitoring without either the electrographic changes of EPI or the behavioral changes of NES need to be routinely recorded as they have substantially different characteristics. The investigation of such spells may lead to new insights in several areas. 1 Pradeep Modur, and 1 Fred Dunda ( 1 Neurology, University of Louisville Hospital, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: Short-term video-EEG monitoring (SVEM) and long-term video-EEG monitoring (LVEM) are extremely helpful in the diagnosis of intractable seizures (JNNP 2004 75:771?2; Epilepsia 2004 45:928?32; Epilepsia 2004 45:1150?3). However, there is little information regarding their usefulness when performed in conjunction with routine EEG (REEG), or serially in the same cohort of patients. Methods: Retrospective analysis of data from all the patients with intractable seizures evaluated at the University of Louisville Comprehensive Epilepsy Center over a 2-year period (October 2002?2004) was performed. Patients underwent either SVEM (4-hour duration) or LVEM (1?8 day/s duration). At the beginning of each SVEM and during the first day of each LVEM, a 20-min segment of EEG with video was acquired as baseline recording using appropriate activation procedures (hyperventilation, photic stimulation, and sleep when possible); this baseline segment was designated REEG since its protocol was similar to the routine outpatient EEG performed in our center. In those patients who underwent both SVEM and LVEM (at different dates), the baseline segment obtained at the time of SVEM was considered as REEG. In patients suspected of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures, suggestion was used for induction. Interpretation for each REEG, SVEM and LVEM was categorized into one or more of the following: partial epilepsy (PE), generalized epilepsy (GE), and nonepileptic seizures (NES); the designation, non-diagnostic (ND), was used when none of the above categories was applicable. NES comprised of psychogenic seizures and all other paroxysmal attacks. Results: There were 336 patients (223 females, 66%) in the age range of 11 to 86 years (mean 38 years). As shown in the table, the diagnostic yield was highest (78%) for LVEM, lowest for REEG (14%) and intermediate for SVEM (44%). Eighteen patients underwent LVEM after an earlier SVEM. In 15 of these, the interpretation was non-diagnostic after SVEM; in 8 of these 15 patients (53%), definitive diagnosis was established at the conclusion of LVEM, with NES being the most predominant category in 6 (40%) patients. Eight patients (5%) were considered for VNS implantation after SVEM while 37 patients (18%) were evaluated for epilepsy surgery after LVEM. Conclusions: In the evaluation of intractable seizures, routine EEG is not helpful and LVEM provides the highest diagnostic yield. With SVEM, there are 7-fold and 2.5-fold increases in the diagnostic yield of nonepileptic seizures and generalized epilepsy respectively. In a given cohort of patients, LVEM after a non-diagnostic SVEM is most likely to establish the diagnosis of nonepileptic seizures. ND, n (%) PE, n (%) GE, n (%) NES, n (%) REEG, n = 336 288 (86) 52 (16) 12 (4)? ?2 (<1)? SVEM, n = 151 84 (56) 35 (23) 21 (14) 11 (7)?? LVEM, n = 203 45 (22) 84 (41) ?9 (4)? 73 (36)? ND SVEM ? LVEM, n = 15 ?7 (47) ?1 (7)? ?1 (7)? ?6 (40)? 1 Luiz K. Ferreira, 1 Leandro R. Teles, 1 Rosa Maria F. Valerio, 1 Carmen L. Jorge, 2 Paula R. Arantes, 2 Carla R. Ono, and 1 Luiz Henrique M. Castro ( 1 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Radiology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Hypothalamic hamartoma (HH) is associated with refractory epilepsy with multiple seizure types. Few studies have addressed the ictal findings in non-gelastic seizures. Methods: Adult patients with MRI diagnosed HH and epilepsy underwent continuous video-eeg monitoring to document all seizure types and ictal SPECT. Seizures were classified acccording to clinical and ictal EEG findings. Data were correlated with MRI and ictal SPECT. Results: Six patients (ages 18?39 years; 4 men) with sessile HHs, measuring 0.178 to 9.952cm3. Four were right lateralized and two left. Four had posterior, one middle HHs. The remaining HH was unclassifiable. Three seizure types were seen: gelastic (GS), complex partial (CPS) and asymmetric tonic postural (ATPS). GS were associated with other seizure types. An individual patient could present either CPS or ATPS. GS were present in five patients. Ictal EEG in GS showed no or nonspecific changes. Four patients had ATPS. In three, ATPS were associated with GS. The other patient had isolated ATPS; ictal EEG showed diffuse attenuation or paroxysmal fast activity, followed by right frontal ictal activity in one patient. The remaing two patients had CPS with automatisms; ictal EEG showed unilateral temporal activity. In both, CPS were associated with GS. A generalized tonic-clonic seizure was seen in four patients, always preceded by another seizure type. The two smallest HH were associated with CPS and not to ATPS. The HH's side correlated with EEG lateralization during CPS. We found no correlation between the middle/posterior HH location and seizure type. Ictal SPECT was performed in five patients and showed increased flow in two (increased right temporal flow in one CPS and increased left frontal and HH flow in one GS/ATPS, concordant with hamartoma lateralization). Accepting HH intrinsic epileptogenicity, we propose that seizure progression from GS to other seizure types is due to seizure activity spread from the HH to other brain areas. Electroclinical differences between CPS and ATPS suggest a different ictal spread. CPS could result from temporal lobe involvement (?horizontal spread?) and ATPS from midline structures (?vertical spread?). Horizontal spread correlated with HH lateralization and only occured in the smallest HHs. Vertical spread was seen in the larger HH with features of frontal/midline involvement. There was no association between HH/mamillary body relationship and seizure spread pattern. Conclusions: Seizure types in HH were limited to three specific seizure types. The pattern of clinical seizure types in each patient, ictal EEG and SPECT findings suggest ictal onset in the HH, with horizontal spread in CPS (in smaller HHs) or vertical spread in ATPS (in the larger HHs). Seizure and HH lateralization was seen in both seizure types. (Supported by FAPESP (The State of S?o Paulo Research Foundation).) 1 James D. Geyer, 2 Paul R. Carney, and 3 Frank G. Gilliam ( 1 The Clinical Neurophysiology Laboratories, Southern Sleep Specialists, Tuscaloosa, AL ; 2 Department of Pediatrics, Neurology, Neuroscience, and Bioengineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Columbia Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: Dyshormia or epileptiform spikes occurring within K-complexes has been described in patients with generalized epilepsy, with one study reporting that generalized spikes occurred frequently in association with K-complexes. We report the rate and laterality of focal dyshormia in localization-related epilepsy. Methods: Pre-surgical or diagnostic long-term video-EEG results of 40 consecutive patients with epilepsy (13 patients with right temporal lobe epilepsy, 20 patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy, and 7 patients with frontal lobe epilepsy) were reviewed. Sleep samples were reviewed and the numbers of K-complexes, spikes and spikes within K-complexes were recorded. The comparison group consisted of 40 consecutive patients with non-epileptic events who were monitored with long-term video EEG. Results: Focal dyshormia occurred in 2 of 13 (15%) right temporal lobe epilepsy patients, 6 of 20 (30%) left temporal lobe patients and 3 of 7 (42%) extratemporal lobe epilepsy patients. In most patients with focal dyshormia, spikes occurring during K-complexes were relatively rare. The epileptiform activity occurred ipsilateral to the primary epileptogenic zone in each case. Not only did more patients with frontal lobe epilepsy have focal dyshormia but the percentage of K-complexes with associated focal epileptiform activity tended to be higher in these patients than in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Conclusions: We identified focal dyshormia, or spikes occurring during K-complexes, in patients with localization-related epilepsy. The sharply contoured components of K-complexes or associated sleep spindles may obscure focal spikes within K-complexes. Nevertheless, K-complexes may be associated with focal epileptiform discharges. Several authors suggested that dyshormia occurs only in patients with primary generalized epilepsy. We report focal dyshormia occurring ipsilateral to the primary epileptogenic zone, associated with localization related epilepsy. Given the predilection of the epileptiform discharges associated with K-complexes to occur ipsilateral to the side of ictal onset, the presence of focal dyshormia may assist in the identification of the primary epileptogenic zone. In general, there was a trend toward more K-complexes being associated with spikes in frontal lobe epilepsy than in temporal lobe epilepsy. Malow et al. reported the presence of sleep spindles recorded from the hippocampus and the association with epileptiform activity in one patient. The association of K-complexes with epileptiform activity may also represent an effect of temporal modulation of the typical features of stage II sleep. 1 Christine M. Heath, and 1 Charles M. Epstein ( 1 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Posterior dislocation/fracture of the humerus is a known, but rare, complication of generalized convulsions. Methods: Observational. Results: Over the course of 53 days, we observed three humeral fractures during generalized seizures in a single epilepsy monitoring unit during acute withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Patients had been on anticonvulsants for 16 to 48 years. Ages were 31 to 55 years. All were in bed during seizures, and none fell. Conclusions: This striking cluster of humeral fractures, which represents 3% of monitored patients over a short time interval, may represent in part vulnerability from long-term anticonvulsants in epileptic patients. However, it may also represent a tendency to more severe generalized convulsions during acute withdrawal. An increased incidence of fractures may be part of the additional morbidity associated with rapid anticonvulsant taper. 1 Heidi L. Henninger, and 2 Donald L. Schomer ( 1 Department of Neurology, Maine Medical Center, Portland, ME ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Beth Isreal Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Inpatient, video-EEG monitoring is often considered the ?gold standard? for evaluating patients with medically refractory epilepsy. Access to inpatient epilepsy monitoring units is improving as more non-academic centers are providing this service. There are still large numbers of patients for whom access is a major barrier. We evaluated the diagnostic utility of ambulatory, digital video-EEG monitoring in patients with refractory ?epilepsy? without access to an in-patient monitoring unit. Methods: Data from a consecutive cohort of fifty patients with a presumptive diagnosis of medically refractory epilepsy for whom ambulatory video-EG monitoring was ordered were retrospectively analyzed. A study was considered ?positive? if typical spells were recorded, epileptic or not, or if inter-ictal (ii)EEG abnormalities were identified which clarified seizure type when prior baseline EEGs were normal. ?Negative? studies were those where no spells were recorded or when the iiEEG provided no additional data compared to prior EEGs. Results: Of the 50 patients, 36 underwent testing for diagnostic purposes and 14 for presurgical screening. Mean evaluation period was 2.2 days. Mean number of seizures recorded per patient was 3. Positive diagnostic information was obtained in 60% of studies. In the diagnostic group, positive yield was 53%. The yield in the presurgical group was 78.5%. No seizures were recorded in 46% of patients (n = 23), but of these, 30% had iiEEG abnormalities that helped clarify diagnosis, and hence were considered diagnostic. Medical management was changed on the basis of the ambulatory video-EEG study in 60% of patients. Conclusions: The development of ambulatory, digital video-EEG monitoring can allow for diagnosis, seizure classification and even presurgical screening for patients without access to in-patient monitoring. In addition, the ambulatory video-EEG study may be appropriate for some patients who might find it difficult to comply with in-patient monitoring, such as pediatric patients, patients with heavy smoking, child care issues or in those where it is thought that environmental stimuli are triggers for targeted episodes. The shorter monitoring duration maybe responsible for the slightly lower rate of ?positive studies? compared to recent studies looking at this issue in in-patient monitoring (1), but the cost savings is substantial. Therefore, for many patients, ambulatory digital video-EEG monitoring is a cost-effective alternative to in-patient video-EEG studies. 1 Ghougassian D. F., et. al., Epilepsia 45(8):928?932, 2004 (Supported by SleepMed/DigiTrace (Peabody, MA 01960).) 1 Luciana M. Inuzuka, 1 Vera C.T. Bustamante, 1 Sandra S. Funayama, 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Sara R.E. Rosset, 1 Helio R. Machado, 1 Americo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Regina M.F. Fernandes ( 1 CIREP, Hospital das Clinicas de Ribeirao Preto - USP, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Ketogenic diet (KD) is a long-time known treatment, effective for seizure control, and often indicated for patients with refractory epilepsy.We carried out the present study in order to speculate how KD should be introduced, and further evaluate its effect over several electrophysiological parameters as well as its efficacy for seizure control. Methods: We evaluated prospectively clinical and neurophysiologic parameters of a group of patients submitted to KD treatment in our hospital. For this purpose, 27 patients with refractory epilepsy were selected and submitted to the classic KD. All patients had detailed previous video-EEG studies and 2 optimized anti-epileptic drugs before the beginning of KD treatment. The patients were randomly assigned to 2 groups and were submitted to two different modalities of KD introduction: First group of patients (n = 13) was submitted to KD after 24 hours of fasting. The second one was submitted to KD without fasting (n = 14). Both groups were compared by age of beginning of the DC, gender, age of epilepsy onset and introduction of KD, time to reach large urinary ketosis, types of epileptic seizures and syndromes, adverse events, efficacy of the KD for seizures control after 2, 6 and 12 months of treatment. Additionally, complete data of an historical series of 13 patients previously submitted to KD after prolonged fasting (24 to 72 hours) in our center were analyzed and included in this study. Results: There were no differences in age of KD introduction, age, gender, age of epilepsy onset, and epilepsy syndrome (focal or generalized) and time to reach strong ketosis among the three groups of patients. Also, there were no differences for seizure control after 2 or 6 months of follow-up among the three groups analyzed. After 6 months and 12 months, the KD was effective in controlling focal or generalized seizures in 46.9% and 37.5% of patients respectively. Corresponding to 25.0% (6 months) and 21.8% (12 months) of patients seizure free or improvement of seizures more than 90%. During KD period, 19 patients were submitted to video-EEG monitoring and 26.3% of them showed improvement on clinical and electroencephalographic parameters. During the introduction of the diet and along the first following days, no differences in the incidence of adverse effects were observed in regard to previous fasting or not. Conclusions: The introduction of KD without a previous fasting period was equally effective in provoking large urinary ketosis as compared to patients submitted to fasting. The incidence of adverse effects of KD was also not different between those groups. Moreover, a fasting period before KD did not affect long-term seizure control. Taken together, our results support the concept that a fasting period before the introduction of KD is not clinically relevant. 1 Soo Yeon Park, 1 Hee Hwang, 1 Jong Hee Chae, 1 Ji Eun Choi, 1 Ki Joong Kim, and 1 Yong Seung Hwang ( 1 Pediatrics, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Although atonic seizures are not uncommon in infants and children, the precise ictal semiology and EEG have not been characterized. This study was performed to demonstrate the clinical and electrophysiological characteristics of atonic seizures in infants and children. Methods: Twenty six patients (19 males and 7 females) showed atonic seizures during long-term video-EEG monitoring (VEM). The mean age on VEM was 37 months. Ictal semiology, interictal and ictal EEG, and brain imaging findings were analyzed. Results: The brain MRI findings were normal in 14 (53.8%) and abnormal in 11 patients (42.3%). Thirteen patients (50%) had atonic seizures only, while the other 13 patients (50%) showed other type of seizures in addition. The types of accompanying seizures were myoclonic seizures in 5, atypical absence seizures in 4, partial seizures in 3, tonic spasms in 2, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures in 1 patient. In the patients with atonic seizures only, 12 showed generalized epileptiform discharges as ictal rhythm such as diffuse or bilateral polyspike/spike and wave complexes (9) or diffuse theta or delta bursts (1) sometimes followed by diffuse attenuation of the background activity (2). One patient showed hemispheric polyspike wave bursts. Abnormalities in the interictal EEG were as follows; 1) 15 showed abnormal background activity, 2) interictal epileptiform discharges included generalized spike or spike wave in 9, generalized with multifocal spike in 7, focal or multifocal spike in 7. Conclusions: Fifty percent of the patients with atonic seizures experienced other types of seizures. In some cases, interictal EEG showed focal or multifocal epileptiform discharges. Therefore, VEM can be helpful for accurate diagnosis and classification of atonic seizures. 1 Mohamad Z. Koubeissi, 1 Gregory K. Bergey, 1 Christophe Jouny, and 1 Piotr Franaszczuk ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Cingulate seizures are poorly understood because their patterns of propagation may confound both the classification of clinical semiology and attempts at seizure localization. The anterior cingulate gyrus is known to have anatomic connections to temporal lobe structures, but projections from the posterior cingulate area are less established. We present a detailed analysis of seizure dynamics from intracranial recordings of repetitive seizures originating from the right posterior cingulate region and producing secondary seizure activity in the right mesial temporal structures. Methods: Depth electrode recordings were made of complex partial seizures (CPS) in a 22 year-old man with one year history of medically intractable epilepsy. His seizures were characterized by staring, automatisms, and incomprehensible speech. MRI revealed an 8.5 X 7 mm lesion of the right parietal cingulate region. PET revealed decreased activity of the right lateral temporal lobe. With scalp EEG, his CPS revealed a buildup of right temporal rhythmic spikes at 8?9 Hz. Depth electrode arrays were then placed in the right amygdala, hippocampus and cingulate lesion. Three stereotyped CPS were recorded. Ictal recordings were analyzed using the matching pursuit method which allows for detailed time-frequency decomposition of rapidly changing signals. In addition the Gabor atom density (GAD) was calculated for all seizures. GAD is a composite measure of signal complexity that has been shown to increase during epileptic seizures. Results: Each of the seizures had a stereotyped pattern of ictal dynamics. The seizures began with a right cingulate sentinel spike followed by low voltage, 40-hz activity. After 20?30 seconds, the mesial temporal depth contacts developed prominent secondary organized rhythmic activity of 6?8 Hz frequency, typical for mesial temporal lobe generators. The patient continued normal activities until the secondary right temporal involvement. GAD revealed a significant change of complexity from baseline during the earliest phase of the cingulate gamma activity and also a consistent pattern of complexity changes from both cingulate and mesial temporal contacts. Conclusions: These recurrent seizures did not produce clinical symptoms until secondary involvement of ipsilateral mesial temporal structures. This suggests connectivity between posterior cingulate regions and the temporal lobe and supports previous observations that cingulate seizures may not produce clinical symptoms without propagation to other brain regions. The dynamic analysis of the seizures revealed a stereotyped pattern of both time-frequency changes and complexity. The mesial temporal ictal evolution was a secondary pattern distinct from but always following the cingulate ictal onset. This activity can be clearly delineated by dynamical analyses. The patient is presently seizure free early after resection of this benign lesion. (Supported by NIH grant NS 33732.) 1 George R. Lee, 1 Noel P. Lim, 1 Amir Arain, and 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: We observed distinctive non-clonic unilateral rhythmic hand motions during seizures in several patients with temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing seizure monitoring. We initially considered these rhythmic hand movements to be automatisms, but noted they were contralateral to the seizure focus. Automatisms usually have no lateralizing value in temporal lobe epilepsy, but will be ipsilateral to the seizure focus if there is contralateral hand dystonic posturing. We studied these RINCH motions systematically in a consecutive series of patients. Methods: We identified thirteen patients with epilepsy who demonstrated RINCH motions and reviewed video-EEG recordings of all their seizures. We recorded time of clinical and EEG onset, time and duration of the rhythmic motions, specific character and laterality of these motions, association with other ictal signs, proportion of seizures that involved this activity, and laterality of the seizure focus. Results: RINCH motions were unilateral, rhythmic, non-clonic hand motions. The description of the movements varied between patients, but was consistent in each patient. They were either low amplitude milking, grasping, fist clenching, pill-rolling, or large amplitude opening-closing motions. The mean duration of the motions was 24 seconds with a range of 6?128 seconds. RINCH motions occurred 0?72 (mean 17.5) seconds following the onset of the electrographic seizure and 0?50 (mean 13) seconds following the onset of the clinical seizure. In the thirteen patients studied, RINCH motions were noted in 28 of 91 seizures analyzed. All patients with RINCH motions had temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). RINCH motions were followed or accompanied by posturing (dystonic or tonic) in every patient (though not in every seizure). They involved the hand contralateral to the temporal lobe of seizure onset in 12/13 patients. Only one patient demonstrated rhythmic hand movements ipsilateral to the seizure onset, and that patient had bilateral dystonic posturing consistent with contralateral seizure spread. Interestingly, RINCH motions affected the right hand in 89% (25/28) of the seizures and 10/13 patients. For each individual, the proportion of seizures with these rhythmic hand movements ranged from 6% to 100%. Based on a limited survey, we estimated that RINCH motions occur in ? 10% of patients with TLE. Conclusions: RINCH motions are a distinct ictal sign associated with posturing. They appear to be a lateralizing contralateral sign in temporal lobe epilepsy, unless bilateral dystonic posturing is present. RINCH motions are to be distinguished from automatisms, which are more likely to be ipsilateral to the seizure focus, involving the arm not affected by dystonic posturing. The mechanism of RINCH motions is unknown; evaluation of these motions in patients with implanted electrodes may help in understanding their mechanism. 1 Lawrence D. Morton, 1 Venkata V. Jakkampudi, 1 Lydia Kernitsky, 1 Alan R. Towne, and 1 William S. Corrie ( 1 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Patients with reports of ongoing seizures are often recommended for admission to an Epilepsy Monitoring Unit for Phase I evaluation to determine next most appropriate care, including possible surgical candidacy. Pressures exist from both patients and third party payers for this assessment to be carried out in the most efficient manner. Antiseizure medications are frequently withdrawn to increase the chance that sufficient events will be captured in a timely fashion. Data is limited regarding safety of this practice. Methods: All patients 18 years and older referred for seizures and seizure-like events admitted from 1/1/2000 through 12/31/2004 were reviewed. Data obtained included age, gender, admission seizure type, captured seizure type(s), including non-epileptic events, duration of admission, baseline antiseizure medications and additional medications administered (including rescue medications for acute seizures, staus epilepticus and impending status epilepticus). Patients with intracranial monitoring or history of status epilepticus were excluded from evaluation. Results: A total of 532 patients who were monitored (180 male, 352 female) had medications withdrawn or reduced. 316 patients experienced target events. 191 patients experienced seizures. A total of 29 patients received rescue therapy - 23 received lorazepam, 2 received diazepam, 2 received clonazepam, 2 received fosphenytoin. Almost all received therapy because the study was completed as an added measure was provided for safety while medications were reinstated or because, patient completed the study and was experiencing seizures above baseline frequency in a crescendo fashion. Only one patient required therapy for impending status. No one was treated for status epilepticus. One patient developed spike wave stupor which resolved spontaneously without treatment. This occurred overnight with no technologist present. Conclusions: Drug withdrawal for Phase I long term video eeg monitoring is safe. Impending status epilepticus or status epilepticus is a rare event that may be aborted with appropriate therapy. However, appropriate safeguards must be in place including intravenous access when withdrawing medication, and an ability to assess and treat rapidly. In addition, as it becomes increasingly difficult to have qualified technologists present 24 hours/day, there is a risk of nonconvulsive seizures occurring with a delay in diagnosis and hence treatment. 1 Rickey J. Reynolds, 2 Muhammad Al-Kaylani, and 3 Bassel Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ; 2 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ; and 3 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy evaluated for epilepsy surgery commonly have bilateral independent interictal epileptiform discharges (IED) during prolonged EEG monitoring. This finding raises the possibility of independent epileptogenic foci. There are no established criteria to distinguish IED associated with ictal onsets from those that are not. This study is an attempt to find neurophysiological IED indicators in the pre-surgical evaluation to help distinguish a primary focus from a mirror focus which does not generate seizures. Methods: We retrospectively studied 75 patients who underwent epilepsy surgery at Vanderbilt Medical Center for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and who demonstrated successful post-surgical outcomes defined as being seizure free for at least two years. From these 75 patients, 14 were found to have bilateral IED. Only ten patients had recordings available for review. The IED were evaluated by frequency of occurrence, amplitude, and field. A side to side comparison was made for the entire group. The IED incidence, average amplitude, maximum amplitude, average field and maximum field were compared with a two-tailed t-test for the primary epileptogenic focus and the mirror focus. Results: The mean IED incidence was higher on the epileptogenic side (ratio was 7.2 to 3; p < 0.0002). In addition, the epileptogenic side demonstrated a higher mean IED amplitude (p < 0.05) as well as maximum IED amplitude (p < 0.005). The mean IED field was not significantly different for the two sides, but the maximum field was wider on the epileptogenic side (p = 0.02). Conclusions: Even though this study had a small sample size, it demonstrated that in addition to the expected higher IED incidence on the epileptogenic side, mean and maximum IED amplitude, as well as maximum IED field were greater on the epileptogenic side. It is hopeful that this data may encourage a larger prospective study to determine more accurately the significance of these easily assessed values in the pre-surgical evaluation of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. 1 Alcibiades J. Rodriguez, and 2 Elson L. So ( 1 Sleep Disorders Center/Neurology Department-Epilepsy Division, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 2 Neurology Department-Epilepsy Division, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: Temporal lobe epilepsy is the most common type of intractable seizure disorder. Seizure semiology has been shown to improve the localization of seizures for the purpose of selecting candidates for temporal lobectomy. There are no studies to date that compare the clinical manifestations of seizures occurring during wakefulness with those of seizures arising from sleep in the same temporal lobe epilepsy patient. Methods: Inclusion study criteria were: 1) excellent outcome following left or right temporal lobectomy; 2) age of >5 years; 3) both wake and sleep seizures recorded by video-EEG; 4) recordings available for review; 5) no other seizure focus identified. Thirty patients from our epilepsy surgery database consecutively met the inclusion criteria. Video-EEG recordings of wake and sleep seizures were reviewed and compared in detail. Results: Subjects consisted of 12 males and 18 females. Nineteen had left temporal lobectomy. Average age was 29.7 years. There was no statistically significant difference in the following semiologic manifestations: early unforced head turn, unilateral automatism, contralateral immobile limb, ictal speech retention, dystonic limb, tonic limb, clonic activity, late forced head turn, ?fencing? posture, ?Figure 4? posture, second late forced head turn, asymmetric clonic ending, Todd's paresis, postictal nose wiping or postictal dysphasia. Mean seizure duration was 71.7 seconds during wakefulness vs. 88.7 seconds during sleep. The difference was not statistically significant (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Within each temporal lobe epilepsy surgery patient, there is no difference in semiology between seizures that occurred during wakefulness and seizures that occurred during sleep. Temporal lobe seizures arising from sleep has localizing value similar to that of temporal lobe seizures occurring during wake. 1 Lori A. Schuh, 1 David E. Burdette, and 1 Brian Silver ( 1 Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: The most effective methods for providing resident neuroscience instruction are not established. Performance on the Neurology Residency Inservice Training Exam (RITE) is predictive of performance on the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN) Part I, which is a measure of the quality of residency training (Goodman JC, et al. Neurology 2002; 58:1144?1146). We previously demonstrated the superiority of an education intervention consisting of resident presentations with weekly quizzing when the format was team oriented, emphasized performance in front of peers, and offered an incentive over a similar intervention with weekly written quizzes, confidential results, and no incentive (Schuh L, Burdette D. Neurology 2005; 64(S6):A31). We sought to confirm the effectiveness of this intervention in Neurophysiology. Methods: A prospective cohort of 17 residents from 2004?2005 were studied. The control group consisted of 44 resident data points from the RITE from 1998?2002. Residents were equally divided between 3 years of training. All residents from 1998?2005 received a minimum of 3 months training in EEG and EMG over 3 years of training and participated in the same lecture series. The additional educational program for the study cohort was a resident-prepared weekly lecture from a chosen text. Residents were divided into 2 teams. Weekly oral quizzes required every team member to answer in turn; the team with the highest cumulative points was given an incentive. Percent correct scores, individual year to year change and historical first year performance in Neurophysiology were compared with controls. Statistics used mean, standard deviation and t-test. Results: Results are presented in the Table. The study group demonstrated superior performance on the Neurophysiology section of the RITE compared to the historical control, with superior year to year improvement, but not superior first year resident performance. Conclusions: We confirmed the success of an educational format consisting of resident presentations with weekly quizzing when the format was team oriented, emphasized performance in front of peers, and offered an incentive. This format may be used by other residencies with a desire to improve RITE performance and document measurable learning under the core competency ?Medical Knowledge.? We plan to continue using this format in other courses and eventually analyze effect on ABPN pass rate. Neurophysiology Performance on RITE ?Control Group ?Study Group Statistical ?Significance Mean Percent Correct 49.4 ± 12.8 63.6 ± 17.0 p < 0.001 Mean Year to Year Difference ?8.5 ± 10.7 19.2 ± 14.0 p < 0.02? Mean Historical First Year Performance 41.6 ± 9.2? 44.2 ± 7.1? p = 0.7?? Means presented; statistical analysis performed with individual data points. 1 Romila Mushtaq, and 1 Linda M. Selwa ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Ictal SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) is a valuable diagnostic tool for localization of seizures in a presurgical evaluation of refractory epilepsy patients. At our institution, trained neurophysiology technicians are placed directly at the patient's bedside to monitor for seizure onset in order to obtain optimal ictal SPECT injection times. This creates additional demands on the institution for personnel and for financial resources. We proposed to analyze patients admitted for ictal SPECT to assess: 1)the success rate of obtaining an ictal SPECT study, 2)average time to record seizure that was injected for SPECT, 3)and average time of actual injection measure from seizure onset. Methods: A retrospective analysis was performed on all patients admitted for ictal SPECT scan between 2002?2004 utilizing inpatient charts, VEEG monitoring data, and monitoring reports generated by physicians. Patients are designated prior to admission to obtain an ictal SPECT. All patients have one seizure recorded prior to obtaining an ictal SPECT to characterize seizures. Day 1 was started as the time of admission until 11:59PM on that day. Patient admissions were analyzed to: 1) quantify the total number of successful ictal SPECT obtained, 2)duration to record the first seizure, 3)time between first and second seizure, 4)time to capture seizure for injection for ictal SPECT, and 5)time to actual injection of tracer from onset of seizure. Results: A total of 93 patients were admitted over 118 admissions to obtain ictal SPECT. Out of 118 admissions, only 23(19%) were unsuccessful at obtaining an ictal SPECT scan. The most common reason was failure to capture seizure during specific hours when SPECT can be performed. The average time to capture the first seizure was on day 2.1. The average time to capture seizure for injection was on day 4.5. Time to actual injection of tracer was calculated from the onset of clinical or EEG changes, whichever occurred first. Data was available in 80/97 successful injections, and the average injection time was 13 seconds. A total of 90% of injections occurred within 30 seconds of seizure onset. Conclusions: Early ictal SPECT injections minimize the problem of seizure propagation and of non-localization due to an early switch from ictal hyperperfusion to postictal hypoperfusion. At our institution, 81% of admissions for ictal SPECT were successfully performed, and 90% of these patients were injected with tracer within 30 seconds of seizure onset. We feel that this data justifies the utilization of trained neurophysiology personnel to monitor patients for seizure onset at the bedside when admitted for ictal SPECT scans. 1 Sona K. Shah, 1 Susan Hawes Ebesole, 1 James Tao, 1 Maria Baldwin, and 1 John Ebersole ( 1 Adult Epilepsy Center, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Non-invasive localization of epileptogenic foci by means of EEG dipole source modeling depends on there being a definable relationship between the cerebral source of an EEG spike or seizure potential and the scalp EEG voltage field that is used for the inverse solution. Validating this relationship can best be performed by simultaneously recording both intracranial and scalp EEG and correlating source location to scalp field. Determining scalp voltage fields correlated with selective sublobar sources would benefit from a technique to increase the ?signal? of the epileptiform activity from the ?noise,? which in this case is the ongoing EEG. Methods: We selected data from eight patients who had simultaneous EEG recordings from both an array of subdural electrodes encircling the temporal lobe and at least 24 scalp electrodes, including subtemporal locations bilaterally. Intracranial EEG spikes or seizure potentials of similar morphology from various circumscribed temporal lobe sources (base, tip, anterior infero-lateral, anterior and posterior lateral) were identified and used as a trigger to average the scalp EEG and thus enhance the signal to noise of any correlated scalp potential. Voltage topographic maps and single moving dipole models of the averaged scalp potentials were then calculated. Results: Discrete, sublobar intracranial EEG spikes and seizure potentials often did not have a scalp EEG correlate that was recognizable in ongoing EEG activity. Signal averaging usually resulted in a definable scalp voltage field for even small cortical sources. Temporal sources from different sublobar areas produced distinctive scalp voltage fields that were modeled by dipoles of different location and orientation. Dipole orientation, in particular, distinguished the various sublobar surfaces. Conclusions: There is a direct and definable relation between the location and orientation of a cortical spike or seizure source and the scalp voltage field it produces. Dipole and other source models of scalp EEG are therefore reasonable approaches to non-invasive localization of epileptogenic foci. Sublobar resolution should be possible given our findings. 1,3 C. A. Smith, 2 W. Trescher, 1 D. Boatman, 3 C. French, 3 K. Walsh, and 1 E. P. Vining ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins Medical School ; 2 Neurology, Kennedy Krieger Institute ; and 3 Neuropsychology, Mt Washington Pediatric Hospital ) Rationale: The study investigates the stability of neuropsychological test performance of children with Benign Epilepsy with Central-Temporal Spikes (BECTS). Children with BECTS generally have normal cognition; however, recent studies have demonstrated difficulties in various cognitive domains. It is unclear, however, whether the reported cognitive deficits are due to a fixed underlying cerebral dysfunction or if the deficits change over time, possibly related to fluctuations in interictal sharp activity. It was hypothesized that cognition would remain relatively stable over the course of 2 months. Methods: Four children were tested, ages 7?12, 2 girls and 2 boys. All were right handed and of average intelligence (FSIQ 97?112) with no history of developmental delays, learning or psychological disorders, and observed seizures within one month of initiating the study. Clinical criteria for the diagnosis of BECTS was met, including EEG sharp activity greater than 100 microvolts with a central or central-temporal distribution, and no evidence of focal slowing. Continuous EEG recordings were obtained on the same day as the neuropsychological evaluation. Subjects underwent assessment of attention, visual/verbal working memory, visual/verbal memory, receptive/expressive language, verbal fluency, visuospatial discrimination and motor abilities in a within subject, repeated-measures design. Subjects underwent repeat testing at 1?1:5 month intervals for 2 sessions (1 subject) or for 3 sessions (3 subjects). No changes in medication between sessions occurred. Results: Three subjects showed impaired visual attention across sessions (>2SD). Impaired performance (>2SD) was observed in immediate/delayed memory, visuospatial skills, response time, and auditory attention in select subjects and sessions. All subjects demonstrated significant variability (>1SD) across sessions in multiple cognitive domains of receptive/expressive language, visual/verbal memory, attention, response time, and executive abilities. Three subjects had central or central-temporal sharp activity on 1or more EEG recordings on the testing day. The observed variability in performance was not related to abnormal EEG activity or practice effect. One subject had normal EEG activity with impaired cognitive performance. The youngest, most recent onset subject had no overall impairment despite abnormal EEG; however, significant variability between sessions was noted. Conclusions: These preliminary results suggest that children with BECTS have significantly fluctuating cognition (>1SD difference) affecting attention, memory, visuospatial, and executive skills that can adversely affect their development and education. Even in a child who demonstrated no cognitive impairment, fluctuation of greater than 1SD was present, predicting alteration in academics, behavioral, and emotional functioning. 1 Christian A. Sonnefeld, 1 Adriana Palade, and 1 John F. Brick ( 1 Department of Neurology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV ) Rationale: Ictal aggression is extremely rare. We report the video EEG of two cases of aggressive behavior occurring during temporal lobe seizures. Methods: Case 1 involved a 20 year old man with a 3 year history of poorly controlled complex partial seizures. His MRI and neurological exam were normal. Interictal EEG revealed frequent right temporal sharp waves. Several seizures were captured on video EEG during which the patient exhibited destructive manifestations, improper language, and semi-purposefully striking and throwing objects. In one unprovoked typical event he struck a wall and attempted to strike his father. His language during this consisted of swearing and inappropriate words. Electrographically, rhythmic lateralized theta activity seen best over the anterior right temporal electrodes was present and began 7 seconds prior to the event. This progressed into higher frequency activity with superimposed spikes and poly-spikes over a 2 minute period. Case 2 involved a 39 year old man with a 4 year history of complex partial seizures and right temporal lobe tumor. Video EEG monitoring revealed the patient getting out of bed, turning toward his wife and motioning with his arms as if to shoot a bow and arrow at her while he makes a shooting noise. He then moves in towards her and appears to strangle her briefly. She cried out and he stepped back with a dazed look over his face. Electrographically, the seizure began with rhythmic theta activity over the right temporal electrodes, which gradually increased in amplitude and sharpness. Results: Both patients were amnestic of the events. In the second case the behavior was not the patient's typical event, having been induced by medication withdrawal. Conclusions: Ictal aggression is extremely rare, but does occur with temporal lobe seizures and probably can lead to injury to the patient or others. Medication withdrawal may lead to a new seizure type for an individual patient, including ictal aggressive behavior. 1 Patricia S. Sousa, 1 Katia Lin, 1 Gerardo M. Araujo Filho, 1 Americo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Elza Marcia T. Yacubian ( 1 Neurology, UNIPETE-UNIFESP-EPM Hospital S?o Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is the most common idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Patients with JME are very sensitive to precipitants factors (PF) such as sleep deprivation, excess of alcohol intake, and photic stimulation. More recently, other unusual PF, such as praxis, reading, writing, calculating, decision-making, speaking and playing musical instruments have been identified in patients with JME. Activation of specific cortical areas of the brain by cognitive stimuli is known to induce seizure in patients with JME. Objective: To examine the effects of higher mental activity in patients with JME, monitored with video-EEG during neuropsychological activation. Methods: Sixty-one patients with JME (35 females), treated and non-treated, underwent video-EEG recording during performance of neuropsychological tasks, which involved reading, speaking, writing, written and mental arithmetic calculation, and spatial construction. These tasks were compared to other activation methods during video-EEG: photic stimulation, hyperventilation, opening/closure of the eyes, and sleep after the tasks (without sleep deprivation). Results: All but 7 patients were treated with anti-epileptic drugs at the time of video-EEG examination. Overall, 18 patients (29.5%) had epileptiform discharges (ED) activation during at least one neuropsychological task. All non-treated patients had ED activation related to these tasks. Among 54 treated patients, 11 (20.4%) showed EEG activation. When photic stimulation and hyperventilation were included as activation methods, 35 patients (57.5%) showed increase of ED in EEG. Praxis was the most effective task (11 patients) followed by reading and writing (6) and mathematic calculation (4). Seizure was precipitated during the tests in 28 (45,9%) patients; the most common were myoclonus (22 patients ? 36.1%). Conclusions: Neuropsychological EEG activation is a useful instrument in the evaluation of treated and non-treated JME patients. It may confirm the existence of PFs and identify reflex seizures in these patients. (Supported by CAPES and FAPESP from Brazil and DAAD from Germany.) 1 Tiffany N. Townsend, 1 Beate Diehl, 1 Richard C. Burgess, and 1 Hans O. Lüders ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Epileptologists have observed that considerable differences exist between the time of first ictal EEG activity and the initial clinical manifestations of a seizure. Recording from intracranial electrodes currently offers us the earliest view of this ictal electrical activity. The window of time between ictal EEG and clinical onset is of interest because, if long enough, it might be used to accomplish some intervention, thereby aborting a seizure or diminishing the harm accompanying unavoidable seizures. Methods: A retrospective review was performed on all patients with focal epilepsy who underwent intracranial video-EEG monitoring (ICEEG) at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation between January 2003 and January 2005. For each patient demographic data was collected and the ICEEG seizure recordings were reviewed. To calculate the time difference from ictal EEG onset to clinical seizure onset, only those seizures with both clear focal EEG onsets as well as a clear clinical onsets were used. Clinical onsets were defined as one of the following: 1) patient self-report of an aura or pressing seizure button, 2)clear change in facial expression, 3) change in responsiveness as determined by interaction with others, 4)onset of automatisms 5)onset of motor seizure. In the group of patients who had >1 seizure that was analyzed, we then calculated the percentage of patients in that group who had a minimum time from EEG to clinical seizure onset of ≥ 10s in at least 80% of their seizures. Results: 31 patients who had a total of 268 seizures were studied. The mean age was 26.6, range [7?48]. The mean number of seizures recorded/patient was 8.65 (SD8.68), range [1?50]. The mean number of seizures/patient with both clear focal EEG onset and clear clinical onset was 3.32 (SD 2.81), range [0?9]. The mean time from ictal EEG onset to clinical seizure onset was 35.13s (SD 87.90), range [-2.14 to 432.42]. The subgroup of patients who had >1 seizure with both clear focal EEG onset and clear clinical onset consisted of 20 patients. In this group, 40% (n = 8) had a time from EEG to clinical seizure onset of ≥10s in at least 80% of their analyzed seizures. These patients represent 27% of the total study population. Conclusions: Our study shows that in about 27% of patients with focal epilepsy who undergo ICEEG there is a considerable time difference (>10s) between ictal ICEEG onset and clincal onset in at least 80% of their seizures. This information is useful in that it supports the rationale for creating EEG based interventions that may warn of, or prevent clinical seizure onset. 1 Amit Verma, and 1 Ian L. Goldsmith ( 1 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Vartiations in heart rate have been described during seizures by numerous authors. All this information is based on recorded seizures in patients with onset in either the dominant or nondominant hemisphere. No case has ever been reported, to our knowledge, where individual seizure onset in either hemisphere produced a different effect on heart rate in a single patient. We report a patient with bilateral seizure onset where seizure onset in the dominant (left) hemisphere was associated with asystole, while a tachycardia was seen during seizure onset from the nondominant (right) hemisphere. Methods: DK is a 35 year old right handed female with a history of a febrile convulsion at age 1 year. The patient began to experience seizures when she was in college. She initially reported having complex partial seizures associated with a ?bad taste in her mouth..? VideoEEG monitoring with bilateral sphenoidal electrodes performed in 1996 demonstrated seizure onset in the right temporal region. An MRI scan, however, demonstrated an enhancing lesion in the left frontal operculum. The patient underwent a partial resection of this lesion. The pathology was consistent with a ganglioglioma. The patient continued to have seizures, but then developed a second seizure type which she described as ?blackout spells.? Repeat video EEG monitoring in 2001 demonstrated two seizure types: 1) Seizures with onset in the left temporal region which were associated with bradycardia and asystole and 2) Seizures with onset in the right temporal region which were associated with slight increase in heart rate. Results: The patient subsequently underwent placement of a on-demand cardiac pacemaker to prevent episodes of asystole. She reported an elimination of her ?blackout spells? but continued to have her seizures associated with the ?bad taste in her mouth.? The patient had failed multiple antiepileptic drugs and subsequently underwent placement of a vagus nerve stimulator (VNS). This did not appreciably change her seizure frequency. Since the cardiac pacemaker had been implanted in the left infraclavicular region, the VNS was implanted in the right infraclavicular region with the VNS lead attached to the left vagus nerve. Conclusions: We believe this case is important to report for a variety of reasons. First, to our knowledge, no single case has ever been reported where independent seizure onset in both hemispheres has been associated with differential effects on heart rate. A volume of information exists about heart rate changes, but is all based on single sides of seizure onset in large cohorts of patients. This case may help provide more insite into the mechanism of Sudden Unexpected Death in patients with Epilepsy. Secondly, this also illustrates the safety of implantation of the VNS battery pack in the right infraclavicular region while stimulating the right vagus nerve. (Supported by Peter Kellaway Foundation For Research.) 1 Norman C. Wang, 1 Juan Ros-Escalante, and 2 Yu-tze Ng ( 1 Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ; and 2 Pediatric Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Scalp video-EEG (Phase I) studies often do not clearly localize seizure onsets. Depth wire recordings improve accuracy; however, invasive (Phase II) studies carry significant risks including, infection, hemorrhage and stroke. Earlier, non-invasive identification of nonsurgical candidates is warranted. One such population is patients with seizures arising from both left and right hemispheres independently. Various characteristics of this group of patients were examined to determine any noninvasive predictors of independent, bilateral onset seizures (IBOS) in cases that were subsequently confirmed on depth wire studies. Methods: All video-EEG monitoring reports from our epilepsy monitoring unit from 11/92 to 12/04 were reviewed. These included phase I and phase II monitored patients. Depth wire reports were examined for evidence of IBOS. Corresponding scalp EEG reports were obtained. Both reports for each patient were examined for the following data points: (1) ictal and interictal activity on scalp EEG recording, (2) MRI results, (3) seizure semiologies and (4) PET scans. Results: Of 2496 total reports, 299 depth wire cases were identified. Twenty-three (7.7%) of these demonstrated IBOS during Phase II and 3 cases were excluded due to lack of Phase I data. Twenty patients were reviewed in detail. During Phase I studies, 6 suggested IBOS with 5 showing interictal epileptiform discharges from both sides. None of 20 MRI reports had evidence of bilateral structural changes. PET scans revealed bilateral hypometabolism in only 2 of 15 cases. Thirteeen (65%) patients had two or more different seizure semiologies. During Phase II exams, there was a characteristic seizure semiology for each side of onset in only 2 patients. However, in 5 cases, the 2 observed semiology types did not correspond with a particular side of onset, and in 7 cases, there was only one seizure type despite varying onset lateralizations. More than 2 semiologies were seen in 6 cases. Conclusions: A surprisingly high number (7.7%) of patients undergoing depth electrode monitoring have IBOS. Certain noninvasive evidence suggests the findings of IBOS in Phase II studies. IBOS on scalp recordings were suggested in less than one-third of these patients but may indicate that depth wires are not indicated in this group. Further cohort studies would be necessary to determine the specificity to support this conclusion. Functional (PET) rather than structural (MRI) imaging appears more sensitive for these cases although this also occurred in a minority of cases (13.3%). Most patients (65%) had at least 2 different seizure semiologies with 6 patients (30%) having 3 or more semiologies and this may be predicitive of IBOS, although the seizure semiologies themselves did not consistently correlate with side of onset, varying widely between patients. Better recognition of patients with IBOS would prevent unnecessary depth electrode placements. 1,2,3 Randall J. Wright, 1,2,3 Amit Verma, 1,2,3 Ian L. Goldsmith, and 1?4 Eli M. Mizrahi ( 1 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center at The Methodist Hospital, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 3 Department of Neurophysiology, The Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX ; and 4 Section of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: A variety of techniques are utilized to localize epileptic seizure onset in patients with complex partial seizures in order to co-register non-neurophysiologic parameters with ictal EEG findings. Some techniques such as positron emission computerized tomography (SPECT) are based on detecting an increase in regional blood flow in the area of seizure onset. Very little is known about changes in larger diameter blood vessels during seizures. Such changes in cerebral blood flow were investigated utilizing ictal transcranial doppler (TCD). Methods: Transcranial doppler was recorded during EEG-video monitoring in 2 adult patients undergoing evaluation for anterior temporal lobectomy. Bilateral TCD sensors were held in place over the temporal regions utlizing a fixed halo. Standard EEG-video monitoring protocols utlizing scalp electrodes were not altered from clinical practice for this study. Results: One seizure each was recorded from each patient. For each, there was an increase in mean blood flow velocities on the side ipsilateral to the seizure onset as determined by ictal EEG. Conclusions: This preliminary data suggests that blood flow changes during TCD monitoring during complex partial seizures may correlate to the side of seizure onset. This may provide another tool in the evaluation of candidates for epilepsy surgery allowing another non-neurophysiologic method for co-registration of functional data. In addition, since TCD reflects changes in blood flow velocities in larger diameter blood vessels, this technique may provide further insight into blood flow patterns in larger blood vessels during partial seizures. (Supported in part by the Peter Kellaway Research Endowment, Baylor College of Medicine and National Service Award Training Grant T32 NS07399, National Institutes of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIH.) 1 Elza M.T. Yacubian, 1 Luis O.S.F. Caboclo, 1 Katia Lin, 1 Eliana Garzon, and 1 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology, UNIFESP/EPM, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Ictal spitting is considered to be a rare event in epileptic seizures (1, 2), being most frequently observed in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). It may represent a lateralizing sign of non-dominant temporal lobe seizures (3). Ictal spitting may, however, be observed in seizures originating in the dominant temporal lobe (1). We report three cases of right-handed patients with TLE, with ictal spitting in seizures originating in the left temporal lobe, as confirmed by video-EEG monitoring. Methods: We reviewed charts from all patients with TLE submitted to pre-surgical evaluation, which included high resolution MRI and prolonged video-EEG monitoring, during a two-year period (2003?2004). We searched for patients who presented ictal spitting during monitoring. Results: Three patients fulfilled the criteria above. All three reported spitting automatisms in the initial clinical evaluation. The first patient was a twenty-nine year-old right-handed man with seizures since the age of two. MRI showed a severely atrophic left hippocampus. During video-EEG with scalp-sphenoidal electrodes, twelve seizures were recorded, with ictal onset clearly lateralized to the right temporal lobe. In one seizure he presented ictal spitting. Due to discordance between neurophysiologic and imaging data, the patient was submitted to a new video-EEG monitoring with foramen ovale (FO) electrodes. He had three seizures with ictal onset in the contacts of the left FO electrode, which confirmed the hypothesis of false lateralization in surface EEG, and was submitted to left anterior temporal lobectomy; after 18 months of follow-up, he is seizure-free. The second patient was a nineteen year-old right-handed man with history of febrile seizures at the age of two, and onset of epileptic seizures at the age of nine. MRI revealed left hippocampal sclerosis (HS). The patient had six seizures during video-EEG monitoring, all with ictal onset over the left temporal lobe; in all seizures he had spitting automatisms. The third patient was a twenty-six year-old right handed woman with onset of epilepsy at the age of sixteen. MRI showed left HS. She had three seizures during video-EEG monitoring, with ictal onset localized over the left temporal lobe. In one of the seizures, she presented ictal spitting. Conclusions: Spitting is an uncommon automatism in temporal lobe seizures. As we have shown in this work, it should not be considered a lateralizing sign to nondominant temporal lobe, since it may occur as a clinical manifestation of seizures originating in the left temporal lobe. (Supported by FAPESP (Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo) and CAPES (Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior)/CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico).) 1 Alexei E. Yankovsky, 1 Frederick Andermann, and 1 Francois Dubeau ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Yawning, an autonomic phenomenon, has surprisingly rarely been described in association with seizures and has not previously been documented by video-EEG. Methods: We studied a 48-year-old woman with a long history of non-dominant centro-parietal seizures who developed forceful repetitive post-ictal yawning. Results: The patient began having intractable epileptic attacks at age 18. She described five types of seizures. At 30, she underwent invasive EEG studies, which showed epileptiform abnormalities over the right parietal operculum. Brain CT and MRI were normal. A right inferior parietal and posterior temporal resection did not lead to improvement. At 31, she had a second resection at the temporal edge of the previous operation again with no improvement. The tissue showed no definite abnormality. Yawning appeared late (approximately 24 years after onset of her seizures). It was repetitive, irresistible and forceful starting from 1 to 30 seconds after the seizure offset and lasting from 5 to 60 seconds. During video telemetry it was observed after most (86%) focal sensory-motor seizures and after one third of simple sensory attacks. She was alert during all yawning episodes. A video will be presented. Conclusions: Yawning may be added to the other autonomic peri-ictal symptoms such as spitting, water drinking, vomiting, urinary urgency or coughing. There is evidence suggesting that such symptoms involve primarily the nondominant hemisphere and this may be the case for yawning as well.
ER  - 
