
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zhang, Ping
AU  - Wu, Xiaonan
AU  - Tang, Min
AU  - Nie, Xin
AU  - Li, Lin
TI  - Detection of EGFR gene mutation status from pleural effusions and other body fluid specimens in patients with lung adenocarcinoma
JO  - Thoracic Cancer
JA  - Thorac Cancer
VL  - 10
IS  - 12
SN  - 1759-7706
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1759-7714.13201
DO  - doi:10.1111/1759-7714.13201
SP  - 2218
EP  - 2224
KW  - Body fluids
KW  - circulating tumor DNA
KW  - EGFR
KW  - lung adenocarcinoma
KW  - next generation sequencing
KW  - plasma
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Background Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene mutation status is essential to the optimal management of lung adenocarcinoma. Liquid biopsy has advantages such as noninvasiveness, speediness, and convenience. This study aimed to detect EGFR gene mutations using next-generation sequencing (NGS) from different types of body fluids from patients with lung adenocarcinoma. Methods This was a prospective study of 20 patients with lung adenocarcinoma recruited between January 2017 and December 2018 at the Beijing Hospital. All patients had adenocarcinoma with confirmed sensitizing EGFR mutations. Body fluid specimens included pleural effusion, ascites, pericardial effusion, and cerebrospinal fluid. NGS was conducted to test for nine lung cancer-related gene in body fluid supernatant free DNA, sedimentary tumor cells, and plasma free DNA. Results The EGFR gene mutation abundance of body fluid supernatant free DNA was higher than that of body fluid sedimentary tumor cells and plasma free DNA specimens (100% vs. 90% vs. 80%, respectively, all P?<?0.05). The results of EGFR mutation from the body fluid supernatants were consistent with the results from the tissue biopsy. Conclusions This study showed that compared with body fluid sediment tumor cells and plasma free DNA samples, body fluid supernatant free DNA has a higher detection rate and sensitivity of tumor-specific mutations. Free DNA obtained from body fluid supernatants could be used as high-quality specimens for gene mutation detection in patients with lung cancer. This could be applied in treatment decisions and patient management.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Xia, Maosheng
AU  - Zhu, Yue
TI  - Signaling pathways of ATP-induced PGE2 release in spinal cord astrocytes are EGFR transactivation-dependent
JO  - Glia
JA  - Glia
VL  - 59
IS  - 4
SN  - 0894-1491
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/glia.21138
DO  - doi:10.1002/glia.21138
SP  - 664
EP  - 674
KW  - arachidonic acid
KW  - cPLA2
KW  - P2Y1-purine receptor
KW  - ERK1/2
KW  - calcium
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Traumatic spinal cord injury is characterized by an immediate, irreversible loss of tissue at the lesion site, as well as a secondary expansion of tissue damage over time. Although secondary injury should, in principle, be preventable, no effective treatment options currently exist for patients with acute spinal cord injury (SCI). Excessive release of ATP by the traumatized tissue, triggers the rapid release of arachidonic acid (AA) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and has beenimplicated in acute and chronic neuropathic pain and inflammation. But the intracellular pathways between ATP and PGE2 remain largely unknown. We have explored the signaling events involved in this synthesis by primarily culturing spinal cord astrocytes: (1) we determined significant PGE2 production increased by ATP is mainly via Subtype 1 of P2 purinoceptors (P2Y1) but not P2Y2; (2) we found that ATP strongly increased the level of intracellular Ca2+ via P2Y1 receptor; (3) we indicated that ATP stimulates the definitely release of AA and PGE2 which involved the transactivation of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor, the phosphorylation of extracellular-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and the activation of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2); (4) we examined ATP could increase the phosphorylation of Akt via P2Y1 receptor which also depend on the transactivation of EGFR, but the activation of Akt has no effect on the downstream of cPLA2 phosphorylation. ATP induced by SCI could mobilize the release of AA and PGE2. And inhibition of PGE2 release reduces behavioral signs of pain after SCI and peripheral nerve injury. ? 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Springer, Christopher
AU  - Greco, Francesco
AU  - Autorino, Riccardo
AU  - Rha, Koon H.
AU  - Derweesh, Ithaar
AU  - Cindolo, Luca
AU  - Richstone, Lee
AU  - Herrmann, Thomas R.W.
AU  - Liatsikos, Evangelos
AU  - Sun, Yinghao
AU  - Fanizza, Caterina
AU  - Nagele, Udo
AU  - Stolzenburg, Jens-Uwe
AU  - Rais-Bahrami, Soroush
AU  - Liss, Michael A.
AU  - Schips, Luigi
AU  - Kassab, Ahmad
AU  - Wang, Linhui
AU  - Kallidonis, Panagiotis
AU  - Wu, Zhenjie
AU  - Young, Shin Tae
AU  - Altieri, Vincenzo M.
AU  - Haber, Georges-Pascal
AU  - Fornara, Paolo
AU  - Kaouk, Jihad H.
TI  - Analysis of oncological outcomes and renal function after laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) partial nephrectomy: a multi-institutional outcome analysis
JO  - BJU International
JA  - BJU Int
VL  - 113
IS  - 2
SN  - 1464-4096
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bju.12376
DO  - doi:10.1111/bju.12376
SP  - 266
EP  - 274
KW  - laparoendoscopic single-site surgery
KW  - LESS
KW  - partial nephrectomy
KW  - warm ischaemia time
KW  - complications
PY  - 2014
AB  - Objective To report on a large multi-institutional series of laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) partial nephrectomy (PN) and analyse renal function and short-term oncological outcomes. Material and Methods We conducted a retrospective analysis of consecutive cases of LESS-PN performed between November 2007 and March 2012 at 11 participating institutions. Demographic data and data on the main peri-operative outcomes and complications were gathered and analysed. Kidney function was evaluated by measuring serum creatinine concentration and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Chronic kidney disease was defined in stages for each patient according to the National Kidney Foundation, Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative. Results A total of 190 cases were included in this analysis. The mean renal tumour size was 2.6?cm, and the mean PADUA score was 7.2. The median operating time was 170?min with a median estimated blood loss of 150?mL. A clampless technique was used in 70 cases (36.8%) and the median warm ischaemia time (WIT) was 16.5?min. PADUA score independently predicted the length of WIT (low vs high score: odds ratio 5.11, CI 1.50?17.41, P = 0.009; intermediate vs high score: odds ratio 5.13, CI 1.56?16.88, P = 0.007). The overall postoperative complication rate was 14.7%. Where a clamping technique was used, a significant increase in serum creatinine concentration and a significant decrease in eGFR were observed postoperatively and at 6 months. On multivariate analysis PADUA score was the only predicting factor. Overall survival rates were 99, 97 and 88% at 12-, 24- and 36-month follow-up, respectively, while disease-free survival rates were 98% at 12-month and 97% at 24- and 36-month follow-up. Conclusion The study showed that LESS-PN is effective in terms of renal function preservation and oncological control at short- and intermediate-term follow-up.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ai, Ligen
AU  - Hu, Yanyun
AU  - Zhang, Xiaoyan
AU  - Zeng, Hui
AU  - Zhao, Jun
AU  - Zhao, Jungong
AU  - Chai, Yimin
AU  - Lu, Junxi
AU  - Tang, Junling
AU  - Bao, Yuqian
AU  - Liu, Fang
AU  - Jia, Weiping
TI  - High cystatin C levels predict undesirable outcome for diabetic foot ulcerations
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
JA  - Wound Rep and Reg
VL  - 24
IS  - 3
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/wrr.12419
DO  - doi:10.1111/wrr.12419
SP  - 560
EP  - 567
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract We investigated the relationship between serum cystatin C levels and the prognosis of diabetic foot ulcerations (DFU). A population-based cohort study involving 1018 patients with type 2 diabetes was conducted. These patients recruited and divided into two groups: nondiabetic foot ulcer group (NDF, n?=?865, 85.5%) and diabetic foot ulcer group (DFU, n?=?147, 14.5%).After a 1-year-follow-up, DFUs were grouped into healing (n?=?110, 74.8%) and nonhealing (n?=?37, 25.2%) group based on the clinical prognosis. Compared with the healing group, the nonhealing group were older, had long diabetic duration and had significantly increased serum cystatin C concentrations in DFU (p?<?0.01). After adjustments for age, diabetes duration, renal function and infection control, multiple logistical regression analysis revealed that cystatin C remained associated increased risk of undesirable DFU outcome (OR?=?7.279, 95% CI: 1.299?40.784, p?<?0.05). When divided into quartiles according to cystatin C levels, the healing rate of Quartile 4 was significantly lower (57.9%) compared with other groups (p?<?0.01). The odd is ratio (OR) analysis showed that the risk of undesirable DFU outcome in Quartile 4 was significantly higher (OR?=?4.554, 95% CI: 3.14?5.12, p?<?0.05) compared with that in Quartile 1. We concluded that there was a strong and independent association between serum cystatin C and diabetic foot ulceration prognosis, cystatin C?>?1.35 mg/L predicts more than sixfold increased risk of incurable foot ulceration.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dagher, Olina
AU  - Alami Laroussi, Nassiba
AU  - Carrier, Michel
AU  - Cecere, Renzo
AU  - Charbonneau, Eric
AU  - de Denus, Simon
AU  - Giannetti, Nadia
AU  - Leduc, Line
AU  - Cantin, Bernard
AU  - Mansour, Asmaa
AU  - Poirier, Nancy
AU  - Raboisson, Marie-Josée
AU  - White, Michel
AU  - Ducharme, Anique
TI  - Pregnancy after heart transplantation: a well-thought-out decision? The Quebec provincial experience – a multi-centre cohort study
JO  - Transplant International
JA  - Transpl Int
VL  - 31
IS  - 9
SN  - 0934-0874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tri.13144
DO  - doi:10.1111/tri.13144
SP  - 977
EP  - 987
KW  - calcineurin inhibitor
KW  - heart transplant
KW  - immunosuppression
KW  - pregnancy
KW  - renal function
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary Despite reports of successful pregnancies in heart transplant (HTx) recipients, many centers recommend their patients against maternity. We reviewed our provincial experience of pregnancy in HTx recipients by performing charts review of all known gestations following HTx in the province of Quebec (Canada), stratified between planned and unplanned pregnancies. Long-term survival was compared to HTx recipient women of childbearing age who did not become pregnant. Eighteen pregnancies, 56% unplanned, occurred in eight patients, 10.1 (2.6?27.0) years after HTx. Immunosuppression was CNI-based, with a mean dose increase of 48.3% (tacrolimus) and 26.5% (cyclosporine), without rejection. Cardiometabolic complications were high compared to the general Canadian population, including preeclampsia (15.4% vs. 5.5%), hypertension (38.5% vs. 4.6%), and diabetes (15.4% vs. 5.6%). Mean gestational age was 35.1 (23.4?39.6) weeks (72.2% live births; 53.8% prematurity). Mean birthweight was 2418 (660?3612) g. Serum creatinine increased during pregnancy, becoming significant after delivery (P = 0.0239), and returning to preconception level in all but three patients within a year. After 4.6 (1.2?17.2) years of follow-up, two rejection episodes occurred in one patient. Long-term mortality was similar to overall HTx women (Kaplan?Meier; P = 0.8071). Pregnancy in HTx carries high cardiometabolic complications and decreased kidney function, but is feasible with acceptable outcomes and no impact on mother's survival.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Place, Andrew E.
AU  - Pikman, Yana
AU  - Stevenson, Kristen E.
AU  - Harris, Marian H.
AU  - Pauly, Melinda
AU  - Sulis, Maria-Luisa
AU  - Hijiya, Nobuko
AU  - Gore, Lia
AU  - Cooper, Todd M.
AU  - Loh, Mignon L.
AU  - Roti, Giovanni
AU  - Neuberg, Donna S.
AU  - Hunt, Sarah K.
AU  - Orloff-Parry, Sarah
AU  - Stegmaier, Kimberly
AU  - Sallan, Stephen E.
AU  - Silverman, Lewis B.
C7  - e27062
TI  - Phase I trial of the mTOR inhibitor everolimus in combination with multi-agent chemotherapy in relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia
JO  - Pediatric Blood & Cancer
JA  - Pediatr Blood Cancer
VL  - 65
IS  - 7
SN  - 1545-5009
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pbc.27062
DO  - doi:10.1002/pbc.27062
SP  - e27062
KW  - developmental therapeutics
KW  - mTOR inhibitor
KW  - relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Background We sought to determine the feasibility of co-administering everolimus with a four-drug reinduction in children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) experiencing a first marrow relapse. Procedure This phase I study tested everolimus with vincristine, prednisone, pegaspargase and doxorubicin in patients with marrow relapse occurring >18 months after first complete remission (CR). The primary aim was to identify the maximum tolerated dose of everolimus. Three dose levels (DLs) were tested during dose escalation (2, 3, and 5 mg/m2/day). Additional patients were enrolled at the 3- and 5 mg/m2/day DLs to further evaluate toxicity (dose expansion). Results Thirteen patients enrolled during dose escalation and nine during dose expansion. During dose escalation, one dose-limiting toxicity occurred (grade 4 hyperbilirubinemia) in six evaluable patients at DL3 (5 mg/m2/day). The most common grade ≥3 adverse events were febrile neutropenia, infections, transaminitis, hyperbilirubinemia, and hypophosphatemia. Two of the 12 patients treated at DL3 developed Rothia mucilaginosa meningitis. Nineteen patients (86%) achieved a second CR (CR2). Of those, 13 (68%) had a low end-reinduction minimal residual disease (MRD) level (≤10?3 by polymerase chain reaction?based assay). The CR2 rate for patients with B-cell ALL treated at DL3 (n = 12) was 92%; 82% of these patients had low MRD. Conclusions Everolimus combined with four-drug reinduction chemotherapy was generally well tolerated and associated with favorable rates of CR2 and low end-reinduction MRD. The recommended phase 2 dose of everolimus given in combination with a four-drug reinduction is 5 mg/m2/day. This promising combination should be further evaluated in a larger patient cohort.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pournaras, Dimitri J.
AU  - Photi, Evangelos S.
AU  - Barnett, Nicholas
AU  - Challand, Christopher P.
AU  - Chatzizacharias, Nikolaos A.
AU  - Dlamini, Nokwanda P.
AU  - Doulias, Triantafyllos
AU  - Foley, Aoibhinn
AU  - Hernon, James
AU  - Kumar, Bhaskar
AU  - Martin, Jack
AU  - Nunney, Ian
AU  - Panagiotopoulou, Ioanna
AU  - Sengupta, Neel
AU  - Shivakumar, Oshini
AU  - Sinclair, Piriyah
AU  - Stather, Phil
AU  - Than, Miriam M.
AU  - Wells, Antonia C.
AU  - Xanthis, Athanasios
AU  - Dhatariya, Ketan
C7  - e12971
TI  - Assessing the quality of primary care referrals to surgery of patients with diabetes in the East of England: A multi-centre cross-sectional cohort study
JO  - International Journal of Clinical Practice
JA  - Int J Clin Pract
VL  - 71
IS  - 7
SN  - 1368-5031
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ijcp.12971
DO  - doi:10.1111/ijcp.12971
SP  - e12971
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary Aim Peri-operative hyperglycaemia is associated with an increased incidence of adverse outcomes. Communication between primary and secondary care is paramount to minimise these harms. National guidance in the UK recommends that the glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) should be measured within 3 months prior to surgery and that the concentration should be less that 69 mmol/mol (8.5%). In addition, national guidance outlines the minimum dataset that should be included in any letter at the time of referral to the surgeons. Currently, it is unclear how well this process is being carried out. This study investigated the quality of information being handed over during the referral from primary care to surgical outpatients within the East of England. Methods Primary care referrals to nine different NHS hospital Trusts were gathered over a 1-week period. All age groups were included from 11 different surgical specialties. Referral letters were analysed using a standardised data collection tool based on the national guidelines. Results A total of 1919 referrals were received, of whom 169 (8.8%) had previously diagnosed diabetes mellitus (DM). However, of these, 38 made no mention of DM in the referral letter but were on glucose-lowering agents. Only 13 (7.7%) referrals for patients with DM contained a recent HbA1c, and 20 (11.8%) contained no documentation of glucose-lowering medication. Conclusion This study has shown that the quality of referral letters to surgical specialties for patients with DM in the East of England remain inadequate. There is a clear need for improving the quality of clinical data contained within referral letters from primary care. In addition, we have shown that the rate of referral for surgery for people with diabetes is almost 50% higher than the background population with diabetes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chang, Teng-Hsiang
AU  - Chiu, Ping-Fang
AU  - Tsai, Chun-Chieh
AU  - Chang, Chin-Hua
AU  - Wu, Chia-Lin
AU  - Kor, Chew-Teng
AU  - Li, Jhao-Rong
AU  - Kuo, Cheng-Ling
AU  - Huang, Ching-Shan
AU  - Chu, Cheng-Chung
AU  - Lin, Chih-Ming
AU  - Chang, Chia-Chu
TI  - Favourable renal outcomes after intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute ischemic stroke: Clinical implication of kidney–brain axis
JO  - Nephrology
JA  - Nephrology
VL  - 24
IS  - 9
SN  - 1320-5358
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nep.13516
DO  - doi:10.1111/nep.13516
SP  - 896
EP  - 903
KW  - acute ischemic stroke
KW  - chronic kidney disease
KW  - recombinant tissue plasminogen activator
KW  - renal outcomes
KW  - thrombolytic therapy
PY  - 2019
AB  - ABSTRACT Aim Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) administration is the most prevalent treatment for acute ischemic within golden time. However, the effects of rt-PA on the kidney function in such patients remain unknown. This study determined long-term renal outcomes in patients with acute ischemic stroke receiving systemic rt-PA. Methods We enroled patients who were hospitalized for acute ischemic stroke from January 2001 to January 2017. We applied 1:2 propensity score matching to eliminate various confounding variables. We defined surrogate renal outcomes as declining of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) greater than 30% and 50%, and chronic kidney disease (CKD) with eGFR less than 60?mL/min. We then compared the 1-year eGFR with paired t-test in patients treated with or without rt-PA. Results Overall, 343 of 1739 patients received rt-PA within golden time. After 1:2 propensity score matching, their baseline characteristics were grouped as treated with rt-PA (n?=?235) or not (n?=?394). rt-PA-treated patients exhibited slower renal progression, including the risk of eGFR declining greater than 30% (hazard ratio (HR), 0.72; P?=?0.03), risk of declining eGFR greater than 50% (HR, 0.63; P?=?0.046) and risk of CKD (HR, 0.61; P?=?0.005). After 1-year cohort, the rt-PA group exhibited an improved renal outcome by the paired t-test (propensity match: ?GFR?=?9.1 (95% confidence interval: 6.3, 11.8), P?<?0.001 in rt-PA group; ?GFR?=??1.1 (95% confidence interval: ?2.9, 0.7), P?=?0.23 in non-rt-PA group). In patients with eGFR less than 45?mL/min (n?=?34), intracerebral haemorrhage was not reported. Conclusion Patients receiving rt-PA for acute ischemic stroke exhibit favourable renal outcomes, and no increased incidence of intracerebral haemorrhage occurs in rt-PA patients with advanced CKD.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yilmaz, Serdar
AU  - Isik, Ipek
AU  - Afrouzian, Marjan
AU  - Monroy, Mauricio
AU  - Sar, Aylin
AU  - Benediktsson, Hallgrimur
AU  - McLaughlin, Kevin
TI  - Evaluating the accuracy of functional biomarkers for detecting histological changes in chronic allograft nephropathy
JO  - Transplant International
VL  - 20
IS  - 7
SN  - 0934-0874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1432-2277.2007.00494.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1432-2277.2007.00494.x
SP  - 608
EP  - 615
KW  - chronic allograft damage index
KW  - chronic allograft nephropathy
KW  - estimated glomerular filtration rate
KW  - protocol biopsy
KW  - receiver operator characteristic curve analysis
KW  - serum creatinine
KW  - surrogate marker
PY  - 2007
AB  - Summary The most common cause of late kidney transplant failure is chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN). Much research has focused on identifying biomarkers (or correlates) that would predict subsequent CAN and allow timely intervention. Functional biomarkers such as serum creatinine and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) have been widely adopted, even though they have not been rigorously evaluated as surrogate markers. This study evaluated serum creatinine and eGFR for predicting the early histopathological changes seen in transplant protocol biopsies (TPB). We prospectively followed 289 kidney transplant patients in the Southern Alberta Transplant Program who had TPB at 6?12?months post-transplant. Tissue samples (n?=?280) were independently examined by renal pathologists. The ability of serum creatinine or eGFR to predict the threshold level for abnormal histopathology was evaluated by calculating the area under the receiver operator characteristic curve. Serum creatinine and eGFR had poor predictive value (most confidence intervals included 0.5, indicating no predictive ability) for ten individual histological measurements (Banff 97 scores), and the Chronic Allograft Damage Index. We conclude that serum creatinine and eGFR have a limited clinical role in predicting the early histopathological changes that precede CAN and should not be used for this purpose.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Skarpen, E.
AU  - Oksvold, M.P.
AU  - Grøsvik, H.
AU  - Widnes, C.
AU  - Huitfeldt, H.S.
TI  - Altered regulation of EGF receptor signaling following a partial hepatectomy
JO  - Journal of Cellular Physiology
JA  - J. Cell. Physiol.
VL  - 202
IS  - 3
SN  - 0021-9541
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.20171
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcp.20171
SP  - 707
EP  - 716
PY  - 2005
AB  - Abstract We have studied epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) phosphorylation and localization in the pre-replicative phase of liver regeneration induced by a 70% partial hepatectomy (PH), and how a PH affects EGFR activation and trafficking. When Western blotting was performed on livers after PH with antibodies raised against activated forms of EGFR autophosphorylation sites, no marked increase in EGFR tyrosine phosphorylation was observed. However, events associated with attenuation of EGFR signals were observed. Two hours after PH, we found increased EGFR ubiquitination and internalization, followed by receptor downregulation. Furthermore, EGFR phosphorylation following an injection of EGF was reduced after PH. This reduction correlated with an increased activation of PKC and a distinct augmentation in the phosphorylation of the PKC-regulated T654-site of EGFR. When primary cultured hepatocytes were treated with tetradecanoylphorbol acetate (TPA) to induce T654-phosphorylation of EGFR, we found colocalization of a fraction of EGFR with EEA1, downregulation of EGF-mediated EGFR autophosphorylation, altered ligand-induced intracellular sorting of EGFR, and increased mitogenic signaling through the EGFR-Ras-Raf-ERK pathway. Further, we found that both TPA and a PH enhanced EGF-induced proliferation of hepatocytes. In conclusion, our results suggest that hepatocyte priming involves modulation of EGFR that enhances its ability to mediate growth factor responses without an increase in its receptor tyrosine kinase-activity. This may be a pre-replicative competence event that increases growth factor effects during G1 progression. ? 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chua, Su-Kiat
AU  - Lo, Huey-Ming
AU  - Chiu, Chiung-Zuan
AU  - Shyu, Kou-Gi
AU  - Taiwan ACS Full Spectrum Registry Investigators
C8  - NEP-2015-0518.R2
TI  - Prognostic impact of renal dysfunction in patients with acute coronary syndrome—role beyond the CHA2DS2-VASc score: Data from Taiwan acute coronary syndrome full spectrum registry
JO  - Nephrology
JA  - Nephrology
VL  - 21
IS  - 7
SN  - 1320-5358
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nep.12653
DO  - doi:10.1111/nep.12653
SP  - 583
EP  - 591
KW  - CHA2DS2-VASc score
KW  - death
KW  - myocardial infarction
KW  - Renal dysfunction
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Aim CHA2DS2-VASc score has been proven to have great prognostic value in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We aimed to determine whether the addition of renal dysfunction in the CHA2DS2-VASc score would improve the prognostic impact of the scoring system to predict prognosis among ACS patients. Methods A total of 3031 ACS patients were prospectively enrolled at 39 hospitals and followed for 1 year. The patients were divided into three groups based on estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (group 1, eGFR>90; group 2, eGFR between 60 and 90; and group 3, eGFR<60 mL/min per 1.73 m2). The occurrence of subsequent myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, or death was recorded. Results As renal function progressively decreased from group 1 to 3, the patients were, respectively older and had higher incidence of comorbidity, worse Killip classification, and less evidence-based medical therapies. The rate of subsequent MI, stroke or death increased from 3.4% in group 1 to 7.4% in group 2 and 17.2% in group 3 (P?< 0.001). Renal dysfunction (eGFR<60 mL/min per 1.73 m2) and CHA2DS2-VASc scores were both significant predictors of adverse events in multivariable regression analyses. Renal dysfunction can further stratify patients with CHA2DS2-VASc score of 0 or 1 into 3 groups with different adverse event rates (group 1, 3.0%; group 2, 4.1%; and group 3, 9.2%, P?< 0.001). A new scoring system (R-CHA2DS2-VASc score) derived by assigning one more point for eGFR ≤ 60 mL/min per 1.73 m2 to the CHA2DS2-VASc score could improve its predictive accuracy (area under the receiver operating curve, 0.70 vs. 0.66, P?< 0.001). Conclusions Renal dysfunction is a significant risk factor of future adverse events in ACS patients and may improve the prognostic impact of the CHA2DS2-VASc score.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vogel, Georg F.
AU  - Ebner, Hannes L.
AU  - de Araujo, Mariana E. G.
AU  - Schmiedinger, Thomas
AU  - Eiter, Oliver
AU  - Pircher, Haymo
AU  - Gutleben, Karin
AU  - Witting, Barbara
AU  - Teis, David
AU  - Huber, Lukas A.
AU  - Hess, Michael W.
TI  - Ultrastructural Morphometry Points to a New Role for LAMTOR2 in Regulating the Endo/Lysosomal System
JO  - Traffic
JA  - Traffic
VL  - 16
IS  - 6
SN  - 1398-9219
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tra.12271
DO  - doi:10.1111/tra.12271
SP  - 617
EP  - 634
KW  - electron tomography
KW  - endosome
KW  - high-pressure freezing
KW  - immuno-gold
KW  - LAMTOR
KW  - MAPK
KW  - mTOR
KW  - MVB
KW  - p14
KW  - Ragulator
PY  - 2015
AB  - The late endosomal adaptor protein LAMTOR2/p14 is essential for tissue homeostasis by controlling MAPK and mTOR signaling, which in turn regulate cell growth and proliferation, migration and spreading. Moreover, LAMTOR2 critically controls architecture and function of the endocytic system, including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) degradation in lysosomes, positioning of late endosomes and defense against intracellular pathogens. Here we describe the multifaceted ultrastructural phenotype of the endo/lysosomal system of LAMTOR2-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Quantitative (immuno-)electron microscopy of cryo-fixed samples revealed significantly reduced numbers of recycling tubules emanating from maturing multivesicular bodies (MVB). Instead, a distinct halo of vesicles surrounded MVB, tentatively interpreted as detached, jammed recycling tubules. These morphological changes in LAMTOR2-deficient cells correlated with the presence of growth factors (e.g. EGF), but were similarly induced in control cells by inactivating mTOR. Furthermore, proper transferrin receptor trafficking and recycling were apparently dependent on an intact LAMTOR complex. Finally, a severe imbalance in the relative proportions of endo/lysosomes was found in LAMTOR2-deficient cells, resulting from increased amounts of mature MVB and (autophago)lysosomes. These observations suggest that the LAMTOR/Ragulator complex is required not only for maintaining the homeostasis of endo/lysosomal subpopulations but also contributes to the proper formation of MVB-recycling tubules, and regulation of membrane/cargo recycling from MVB.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 7th International Symposium on Enabling Technologies for Life Sciences (ETP)
JO  - Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry
JA  - Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom.
VL  - 27
IS  - 22
SN  - 0951-4198
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rcm.6724
DO  - doi:10.1002/rcm.6724
SP  - 2570
EP  - 2580
PY  - 2013
AB  - The seventh in the series of ETP Symposia (see Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 2012, 26, 1515?1518 for a description and report on the 6th Symposium) was held at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, Toronto, Canada, on 30 April to 1 May, 2013, and was chaired by Professor Daniel Figeys, Ottawa Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa. The purpose of these symposia is to convene meetings of scientists and engineers from universities, government laboratories, industry and manufacturers of scientific instrumentation, to discuss novel technologies and methodologies applicable to research in molecular biology. The speakers and the Abstracts of their presentations are listed alphabetically below. The program illustrates some significant changes from earlier versions (www.etpsymposium.org) that were devoted almost entirely to proteomics (the 'P' in 'ETP'). In addition to new techniques and applications related to that area, this symposium featured work related to nucleic acid characterization, biomaterials discovery, water disinfection byproducts, and metabolomics, as well as more fundamental developments in mass spectrometry (ionization techniques and quadrupole theory) and sample preparation. The symposium is now more truly international, with speakers from Canada, USA, Europe and China. It is hoped that the wide variety of topics and backgrounds of participants, together with the highly informal setting, will help promote cross-fertilization of ideas and unforeseen collaborations. Perdita E. Barran, Department of Chemistry, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK Resolution of solution structures in the absence of solvent (Invited Talk) Gentle application of nano-electrospray to proteins buffered in solution to an appropriate pH allows us to use mass spectrometry to interrogate their solution conformations. This can be achieved directly with ion mobility mass spectrometry where we measure the rotationally averaged temperature dependent collision cross section of mass separated ions, or more indirectly with the use of dissociation methods. Data obtained from both methods provides insight to the structure and stability of the protein, and also detail on its interactions, especially when combined with atomistically resolved data from crystallography and/or computational approaches. Data were presented from two systems, the first was a peptide level model of the interaction between the transcription factor c-MYC and its partner MAX; the second was a detailed structural evaluation of the metamorphic protein Lymphotactin. Ronald Beavis, Beavis Informatics Ltd, Winnipeg, Canada False negatives in proteomics (Invited Talk) Proteomics experiments using tandem mass spectrometry to identify peptides and proteins are prone to various types of false negative identifications that can affect the utility of the information generated from the experiments, as well as their reproducibility. This talk discussed the classification of the most common types of false negatives as well as how they can be detected, remedied or avoided. John D. Brennan, Blake J. Helka and Elna D. Luckham, Department of Chemistry, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada Imaging MALDI MS/MS of microarrays as a platform for high throughput biomaterials discovery (Invited Talk) This presentation highlighted recent work within the Biointerfaces Institute at McMaster University in the area of high throughput screening of biomaterials, with particular emphasis on the use of imaging MALDI for characterization of biomaterial microarrays. Using robotic handling systems and a combination of contact and noncontact microarray printing, we are able to produce several thousand biomaterials per day with a wide range of chemical compositions. Using sol?gel based materials as an example, the presentation showed the workflow utilized to develop new bioactive sol?gel materials for biosensing and small molecule screening applications. This includes methods to produce several thousand materials very rapidly, tools for rapid screening to identify ' hits' that show a desired property (high biological activity, low non-specific binding, etc.), and further detailed material analysis using a range of imaging methods based on fluorescence, XPS, MALDI-MS/MS and SPR to fully characterize the properties of biologically active materials. In particular, this presentation emphasized the unique capabilities of MALDI-MS/MS for evaluating biomaterial properties and the interaction of materials with biological samples. Methods for cataloging, mining and analyzing large datasets within the Database of Biointerface Interactions were also discussed. Rui Chen, H. Zou and D. Figeys, Ontario Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada Characterization of cell membrane N-glycosylation with integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction and LC/MS/MS Glycosylation of membrane proteins plays important roles in cellular behaviours such as cell-cell interaction, immunology recognition and cell signalling. Despite their importance the effective extraction of membrane protein, selective isolation of glycopeptides and mass spectrometric characterization of glycosylation are challenging current analytical techniques. In this study, a systematic approach was developed which combined an integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction (HILIC SPE) for simultaneous detergent removal and glycopeptides enrichment, and mass spectrometric identification of both protein N-glycosylation sites and site-specific glycan structure. The HILIC SPE condition was optimized to enable the use of high concentration of strong detergents, such as SDS and Triton X-100, to dissolve highly hydrophobic membrane proteins, thus increasing the yield of membrane protein extraction. We illustrated the performance of this approach for the study of membrane protein glycosylation from human embryonic kidney cell lines (HEK 293T). 200 µg total protein digest was processed using this approach, leading to the identification of 813 N-glycosylation sites from 568 proteins within two experimental replicates. Furthermore, 177 glycopeptides representing 82 N-glycosides with both glycan composition and peptide sequence were identified by high energy collision dissociation. Andrew Crowell, A. Doucette and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada. Disposable two-stage spin cartridges for protein purification in a top-down proteomics workflow Proper proteome analysis by mass spectrometry depends on upstream sample manipulations, including protein concentration and purification. Cleanup strategies typically rely on chromatography, not only for the relative high recovery and purification efficiency, but also for ease of use through automation. Unfortunately, with chromatographic approaches sample loss is an expected occurrence, especially for high molecular weight and/or hydrophobic (membrane) proteins. By contrast, organic solvent-assisted protein precipitation is extremely effective at protein purification with minimal sample loss. Quantitative protein recovery is possible, though it is highly dependent on the pipetting skills of the individual. It is desired to create a robust protein precipitation protocol by automating the process, thereby maximizing recovery and purity on a high throughput scale. This presentation introduces a disposable two-stage centrifugal cartridge, tailored to automate the precipitation process. The ProTrap XG comprises an upper filtration cartridge together with a removable reversed phase cartridge, attaching at its base. Protein samples are mixed with organic solvents in the upper filter chamber, which induces precipitation of proteins. The pellet is retained by the filter, while contaminants in the supernatant are discarded to waste through a brief spin in a desktop centrifuge. Multiple devices can be used simultaneously, improving throughput while maintaining consistency between samples. Following precipitation, protein pellets are re-solubilized and subject to final purification through the reverse phase cartridge which is re-attached to the base of the filter. The effectiveness of the ProTrap XG for recovery and purification of intact proteins in a top-down proteomics workflow was discussed. Alan Doucette, A. Crowell and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada Automated SDS removal, tryptic digestion and sample cleanup in a disposable two-stage spin cartridge Prior to MS analysis, bottom up proteomics relies on a significant number of sample manipulations including protein purification and preconcentration, fractionation, digestion, and subsequent cleanup. Each of these steps comes with a risk of loss of analyte and adds to the complexity of the proteomics workflow. The GELFrEE fractionation system is a mass-based electrophoretic platform which relies on an SDS-containing sample buffer to isolate protein fractions in solution. Our group has recommended the use of solvent-induced protein precipitation (acetone or chloroform/methanol/water) to eliminate the SDS ahead of LC/MS analysis. However, protein precipitation is a particularly tedious and highly variable technique for the recoverery of proteins in high yield. Subsequent resolubilization of the protein pellet is also challenging, and further jeopardizes the success of MS characterization. To facilitate protein precipitation we have developed a two-stage filtration and chromatographic extraction cartridge designed to work in a conventional benchtop centrifuge. The device automates the recovery of proteins, ensuring uniform purification on a high throughput scale. Protein samples are precipitated in an upper chamber, with residual contaminants (including SDS) flushed through the bottom filter. At this point the base filter is capped, trapping proteins in the upper vial for subsequent resolubilization. A combination of urea and trypsin ensures complete digestion of the pellet. The peptides are then subject to reversed phase purification; here we link a chromatographic cartridge to the base of the filter chamber. Key figures of merit of the device, including the purity of SDS removal, protein recovery, digestion efficiency and peptide recovery, were demonstrated through standard and complex proteome mixtures. Don Douglas1, C. Gao1, K. Kim1, H. Qiao2 and N. Konenkov3 1Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 2Ionics Mass Spectrometry Group, Bolton, ON, Canada 3Physical and Mathematical Department, Ryazan State University, Ryazan, Russia Space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps with mass selective axial ejection (Invited Talk) Experiments and ion trajectory calculations have been used to better understand and to reduce space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps operated with axial ejection. If too many ions are stored in a linear trap their mutual repulsion counteracts the trapping forces and the ion oscillation frequencies decrease. Consequently higher trapping radio frequency voltages are required to bring ions into resonance for ejection, and ions appear at higher apparent masses in a spectrum. At the same time the mass resolution decreases. For the experiments of interest here the mass shifts are about 1 at m/z 609, and the electric field from space charge is a small perturbation to the trapping field. Experiments show that a proper choice of operating conditions can reduce but not eliminate mass shifts. Trajectory calculations of ion motion with various models of the ion cloud provide additional insight, and show that the space charge field is nonlinear and that therefore the ion oscillation frequency depends on oscillation amplitude. Anything that expands the ion cloud produces lower electric fields from space charge, and hence lowers mass shifts. Experiments in progress show that using broadband excitation, dipole dc, or two-frequency excitation to expand the ion cloud gives modest reductions in mass shifts and improvements in resolution. Norman Dovichi, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana, USA Capillary electrophoresis for high throughput proteomics (Keynote Lecture) Most proteomics studies employ LC/ESI-MS/MS analysis of peptides. We are investigating capillary electrophoresis (CE)/ESI-MS/MS as an alternative technology for bottom-up proteomics. We first developed a rugged and sensitive CE/ESI interface based on electrokinetically pumped sheath-flow.[1] This interface operates in the nanospray domain, produces low-attomole detection limits for CE separation of peptides, and offers great flexibility in separation buffer conditions.[1,2] We then analyzed the secreted protein fraction of M. marinum.[3] We pre-fractionated the secretome to produce simpler samples that were better suited to the separation performance of capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE). The results of the analysis of 12 fractions were compared with conventional UPLC analysis of the unfractionated sample. CZE produced slightly more protein identifications in a slightly shorter time period than UPLC. 140 protein groups were identified by CZE/ESI-MS/MS in three hours from this sample. We have recently improved the system. In the single-shot analysis of the E coli proteome, we identified >1,300 peptides and >300 protein groups in a 50-min CZE separation.[4] We have employed this separation system to analyze seven fractions from the E. coli proteome.[5] This system produced 23,706 peptide spectra matches, 4,902 peptide IDs, and 871 protein group IDs in 350 min analysis time. In an alternative separations scheme, we employed capillary isoelectric focusing for the analysis of host-cell proteins in commercial biopharma products; this system identified 37 host cell proteins in a total sample preparation time of 4 hours.[6] [1] Wojcik et al. Rapid Communun. Mass Spectrom. 2010, 24, 2554. [2] Wojcik et al. Talanta 2012, 88, 324. [3] Li et al. Anal. Chem. 2012, 84, 1616. [4] Zhu et al. Anal. Chem. 2013, 85, 2569. [5] Yan et al. In revision [6] Zhu et al. Talanta 2012, 98, 253. Ann M. English, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada Platform development to monitor age- and oxidant-related protein post-translational modifications: The case of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (Invited Talk) Non-enzymatic protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) increase with age and are frequently associated with age-dependent diseases. For example, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) aggregation has been reported in patients with late onset neurodegenerative diseases such as sporadic or familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's. Non-enzymatic PTMs in CuZnSOD are linked to its aggregation and hence to the development of ALS and Alzheimer's. Yeast is a widely used model of cellular and organismal aging that can be readily exploited in platforms to monitor age-related PTMs in a cellular environment. Furthermore, yeast and human CuZnSODs share high sequence homology but, since yeast ages much faster, we are exploring age-related PTMs in the yeast enzyme. By gel filtration of cell lysates we isolated a high-mass inactive form of CuZnSOD, and found by FT-MS that it is oxidized at cysteine 146 (C146) to the sulfonic acid. Importantly, C146 is also found in the sulfonic acid form in CuZnSOD isolated from the brains of Alzheimer's patients[1] and the C146R mutation has been reported in familial ALS.[2] Notably, C146 forms a C146-C55 disulfide bridge that is critical in stabilizing the native CuZnSOD homodimer. In high-mass CuZnSOD, we additionally observe oxidation of histidine 71 (H71) and H120, which ligate the active-site zinc and catalytic copper, respectively. We hypothesize that age-induced oxidation of C146, H71, and H120 contributes to the development of ALS as well as Alzheimer's by releasing the redox-active catalytic copper, which would probably increase oxidative stress and CuZnSOD aggregation. By monitoring the GFP (green fluorescent protein) fluorescence of CuZnSOD-GFP from an isogenic yeast strain expressing this fusion protein, we noted that the cellular content of high-mass CuZnSOD-GFP increases ~10-fold from day 3 to day 7. We are currently characterizing CuZnSOD and CuZnSOD-GFP from yeast cells over several weeks to establish if aggregated CuZnSOD continues to accumulate in old cells. CuZnSOD activity also is known to be inhibited by inflammatory processes in the airway epithelium, and C146 oxidation was reported in CuZnSOD purified from the erythrocytes of asthmatic patients.[3] To mimic the inflammatory state of asthma we are examining modification of CuZnSOD after challenging yeast cells with H2O2. Our highly sensitive LC/MS platform that tracks protein modification as yeast ages is providing in-depth information at the molecular level that is critical towards understanding the functional significance of PTMs in the cellular context. [1] Choi et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005, 280, 11648. [2] Andersen et al. Amyotroph. Lateral Scler. Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2003, 4, 62. [3] Ghosh et al. Antioxid Redox Signal 2012. DOI: 10.1089/ars.2012.4566. Daniele Fabris, The RNA Institute, State University of New York, The University at Albany, Albany, NY, USA MS-based strategies for the elucidation of nucleic acid?ligand interactions (Invited Talk) Ribozymes and riboswitches have keenly demonstrated that the function of nucleic acids is not always linked to the genetic information coded in their sequence, but can also depend on their 3D structure and ability to interact with a variety of species present in the cell. Owing to the versatility afforded by mass spectrometry (MS) in RNA analysis this platform is rapidly assuming a prominent role in the investigation of structure-function relationships, which is realized by supporting the full characterization of natural and man-made RNAs as well as the elucidation of specific interactions with cognate nucleic acids, proteins, metals, and small molecule ligands. The talk illustrated strategies for accessing functional information for nucleic acid complexes and discussed possible hurdles and experimental pitfalls. Examples were provided in which MS-based techniques are employed to characterize relevant interactions that could represent new therapeutic targets. Other examples illustrated approaches for elucidating the effects of metals and common nucleic acid ligands on such interactions. The experimental design necessary to assess the strength of binding/inhibition in either comparative or absolute fashion was also discussed. The potential afforded by ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) techniques was evaluated in the investigation of possible conformational effects associated with ligand binding. Owing to the extremely low sample consumption and high speed of analysis, these capabilities will be expected to greatly increase the utilization of MS-based approaches in drug discovery and therapeutics development based on specific nucleic acid interactions. Bella Groisman, J. Petschnigg and I. Stagljar, Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada A novel mammalian split-ubiquitin proteomics approach as a tool for functional investigation of signaling pathways in human cells The membrane yeast two-hybrid system (MYTH) is a robust technique for the identification of protein partners of integral membrane proteins. However, its implementation for mammalian proteins is limited due to differences between mammalian and yeast cells. Here we present a novel split-ubiquitin-based mammalian membrane two-hybrid (MaMTH) technology that enables investigation of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in human cells. Briefly, the specific interaction between membrane 'bait' and 'prey' proteins, coupled to ubiquitin halves, allows reconstitution of functional ubiquitin. Subsequently, deubiquitinating enzymes cleave off the transcription factor coupled to the bait, thus activating reporter gene transcription. Using the MaMTH technology we successfully confirmed known PPIs of membrane proteins from various cellular compartments. Here we focus on the ErbB members of receptor tyrosine kinases, mainly on the EGFR wild type (WT) versus the oncogenic kinase-active L858R version ? dynamic interactomes and functional analysis. We demonstrate that MaMTH allows sensitive detection of phospho-dependent and drug-inhibited interactions. We show that EGFR WT recruits Shc1 adaptor in serum-dependent manner, while oncogenic L858R shows constitutively stimuli-independent binding. Furthermore, consistent with clinical data EGFR (L858R) interaction with Shc1 was efficiently inhibited by the EGFR small molecule inhibitor erlotinib (tarceva), while the secondary L858RT790M resistant mutant was not affected by the drug. In addition, we created a dynamic interactome of EGFR WT versus L858R with 200 predicted interactors, data which is of high importance for the cancer signaling scientific community. In summary, here we presented a novel powerful proteomics technology, which we are planning to develop as tool for high-throughput proteomic research as well as a drug screening platform. David Juncker, Department of Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montréal, Canada Antibody colocalization microarray (ACM): A scalable cross-reactivity free nano-ELISA platform for proteomics studies Quantification of proteins with high specificity in blood can be performed using sandwich immunossays (e.g. ELISA). Multiplex sandwich immunoassays (MSI) were developed to measure multiple proteins at once, but cross-reactivity among reagents is known to limit accuracy and reproducibility. Here we explain the origin of the cross-reactivity in MSI, experimentally show the consequences, and introduce a novel assay format called the antibody Colocalization Microarray (ACM) that eliminates it. In MSI a slide is patterned with an array of capture antibodies, incubated with a sample, followed by a mixture of detection antibodies. Here we analyze the combinatorial interactions between detection and capture antibodies and antigens, and find that it increases quadratically with the number of targets. In an array with 14 targets we found widespread cross-reactivity. To overcome the cross-reactivity we introduce the ACM where all detection antibodies are individually spotted with high accuracy onto their corresponding capture antibody spot. Each spot on the ACM replicates an ELISA but using only 1 nL of reagent, constituting a Nano-ELISA. An ACM with 50 targets was shown experimentally to overcome cross-reactivity and to rival the sensitivity of ELISA. The ACM was validated for biomarker studies by measuring proteins in the serum of breast cancer patients and controls, and a candidate biomarker panel was identified. It is currently being used to identify biomarkers for traumatic brain injury. As the number of targets on the ACM is increased easily, it may become a powerful tool for biomarker discovery and validation. John Klassen, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada New MS tools for the discovery and characterization of protein-carbohydrate interactions (Invited Talk) The direct electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) assay has emerged as a powerful tool for quantifying protein-ligand interactions in solution. The assay is based on the direct detection and quantification of free and ligand-bound protein ions by ESI-MS for solutions of known initial concentrations of protein and ligand. A brief overview of the ESI-MS assay was presented, along with recent methodological advances that overcome the major sources of error in the binding measurements. A high-throughput ESI-MS approach to library screening was also presented. The catch-and-release (CaR)-ESI-MS assay involves incubating a protein with a library of compounds in solution, detecting the protein-ligand complexes by ESI-MS, activating the complexes to release the ligand. The identities of ligands are determined from measured molecular weights and, if needed, the fragmentation spectra and ion mobility arrival time distributions. The CaR-ESI-MS assay allows for the sensitive, rapid (<1 min analysis time) and direct detection and quantification of specific interactions for libraries containing hundreds of compounds. An overview of the assay was presented followed by examples highlighting the application of the assay for the discovery of carbohydrate ligands for a variety of bacterial proteins. Finally, the extension of the CaR-ESI-MS assay for the discovery of host cell receptors was described. The assay involves direct ESI-MS analysis of aqueous solutions of soluble proteins and insoluble receptors, which are incorporated into nanodiscs. The application of this assay for the detection of interactions between bacterial toxins and glycosphingolipids was presented. X. Chris Le, H. Zhang, F. Li, B. Dever, X. Li, C. Wang, M. Wagner, Z. Wang and X.-F. Li, Departments of Chemistry and of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada DNA-mediated binding assays for nucleic acids and proteins (Invited Talk) The detection of nucleic acids and proteins is fundamental for studying their functions and for the development of molecular diagnostics. Determining these biomolecules in complex systems requires exquisite analytical specificity and sensitivity. To meet these requirements we have devoted much effort to affinity binding assays that incorporate target recognition, signal transduction, and in situ amplification. Here we focus on homogeneous binding assays, which are carried out in solution, without the need for separation, immobilization, or washing steps. Such homogeneous binding assays can be performed in a single tube/vial or in live cells. They are potentially applicable to point-of-care diagnostics. For example, a binding-induced DNA assembly enables ultrasensitive detection of molecular targets and construction of unique target-dependent nanoreactors. Two DNA motifs that are conjugated to specific affinity probes assemble preferentially only when a specific target triggers a binding event. The binding-induced assembly of the DNA motifs results in the formation of a highly stable hairpin structure, enabling effective differentiation of the target-specific assembly from the background. This strategy pushes the limit of the state-of-art dynamic DNA nanotechnology to include molecules beyond DNA. The ability to generate dynamic DNA assembly by non-DNA molecules opens up opportunities for diverse potential applications, ranging from the construction of protein-induced nanodevices to the in situ detection of proteins and studies of molecular interactions. XingFang Li, W. Wang, Y. Quian and J. M. Boyd, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. Mass spectrometry methods for characterization and determination of disinfection byproducts in tap water and swimming pools Protection of public health requires disinfection of drinking water and recreation pools to effectively prevent water-borne diseases. However, common disinfection treatments unavoidably generate byproducts resulting from reactions between natural organic matter in the source water and disinfectants. The majority (~70%) of disinfection byproducts (DBPs) in treated water remain unidentified. Potential adverse health effects observed in epidemiological studies drive analytical research to identify and determine what DBPs may contribute to these health risks. Here we present the separation of and mass spectrometry methods to characterize emerging DBPs of toxicological relevance, and investigate the occurrence of these DBPs in swimming pools. The research demonstrated that personal care products contributed to the formation of some emerging DBPs such as halobenzoquinones. Yueqiao Fu, Lily Mats, Graham T. T. Gibson and Richard Oleschuk, Department of Chemistry, Queens University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada Multi-nano ESI, in pursuit of enhanced robustness, stability and sensitivity (Invited Talk) Electrospray ionization (ESI) as a soft ionization technique has been critical to mass spectrometry for analyzing biological macromolecules. NanoESI, which is operated at lower flow rates (nL/min), exhibits both higher ionization efficiency and higher sensitivity since the smaller initial electrospray droplets from the emitter afford increased surface charge per analyte molecule. To improve sensitivity and signal without decreasing flow rate, multiple electrosprays have been generated from multiple emitters by splitting one larger flow into smaller flows in the nanoESI regime. Based upon theoretical prediction and experimental results, the measured spray current generated from an emitter producing multiple Taylor cones (Itotal) is enhanced relative to the spray current from a single emitter (Is) at the same overall flow rate by a factor of the square root of the number of emitters (n). We have developed a series of multi-channeled emitters based upon silica and polymer microstructured fibers (MSFs). Custom-designed MSFs having holes in a radial pattern were fabricated using a 'stack and draw' technique, allowing multiple electrosprays from a single fiber. Polymer nozzles have been included in the silica MSF design to enhance nanoESI performance. A layer of polymer is first formed on the inner wall of each of the MSF channels followed by etching with hydrofluoric acid to expose the nozzles. The protruding highly cross-linked divinylbenzene nozzles produce true multi-nanoESI over a wide range of flow rates and mobile phase compositions and are compatible with high-resolution liquid chromatographic separations. Anthony Pawson, Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Using synthetic biology to study protein signaling networks (Plenary Lecture) The proteins involved in the transmission of signals within cells are typically complex, in the sense that they often possess multiple interaction and/or catalytic domains, and are directly or indirectly connected to numerous distinct proteins and other biomolecules such as phospholipids. We have used a variety of synthetic biology and proteomics techniques to investigate the importance of the multiple protein- and lipid-binding domains of the Grb2 adaptor protein and its target, the Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor Sos1, in controlling a key cell fate decision in early mammalian embryogenesis, namely the differentiation of primitive endoderm tissue. We find that these domains act cooperatively as a coincidence detector to ensure that fibroblast growth factor-dependent signals are transmitted at the right time and in the right place to elicit the appropriate formation of primitive endoderm. Guy Poirier, J.-P. Gagné, J. D. Chapman and D. R. Goodlett, Department of Molecular Biology, Medical Biochemistry and Pathology, Laval University, Québec, PQ, Canada High accuracy mass spectrometry provides direct evidence for site-specific auto-ADP-ribosylation of PARP-1 Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is an abundant chromatin-associated protein involved in a variety of pathways such as DNA damage response (DDR), transcription regulation, cell cycle progression and apoptotic cell death. Upon DNA damage induction, DNA-dependent PARPs synthesize an anionic poly(ADP-ribose) (pADPr) polymer to which several proteins bind with the subsequent formation of pADPr-associated multiprotein complexes. PARP hydrolyzes NAD?+?in the formation of pADPr on nuclear proteins such as DNA repair enzymes, chromatin remodelers, histones, transcription factors and PARP-1 itself. The covalent attachment of pADPr to a substrate protein alters its physicochemical characteristics, which results in functional consequences on its biological activity. The exact nature of the ADP-ribose linkage catalyzed by PARP-1 has been the subject of controversy and debate. To date, it is still unclear which of the amino acid side chains are directly targeted by the ADP-ribose transferase activity of PARP-1. Radiolabeled NAD?+?has been a cornerstone in research for tracking and visualizing PARP-catalyzed post-translational protein modification in vitro, but the ability of the negatively charged pADPr to strongly interact with proteins in a non-covalent manner is a cause of confusion when interpreting experimental results. To truly begin to understand the exact nature of the poly(ADP-ribosly)ation reaction, there is a need for more conclusive mass spectrometry evidence of PARP-catalyzed protein modifications. Mapping of these modifications to specific amino acid residues on PARP-1 and other protein substrates of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reactions presents significant challenges due to the complex structural heterogeneity of pADPr polymers as well as a loss of amino acid sequencing information that occurs during several mass spectrometry peptide activation techniques commonly implemented for fragmentation. Here, we demonstrate a novel method for the identification of PARP-1 auto-poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation sites utilizing high mass accuracy mass spectrometry. By employing an enzymatically driven simplification of the pADPr modifications, we reduce the corresponding complexity of analyzing modified tryptic peptides at the level of the tandem mass spectrum, which in turn enables us to effectively localize exact sites of PARP-1-catalyzed poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. In conjunction with a phosphopeptide-like enrichment strategy that captures modified peptides, we are able to successfully locate numerous sites of PARP-1 automodification in a high-throughput proteomics screen suitable for universally available mass spectrometry and data analysis pipelines. Jeffrey Smith, K. Wasslen, S. Wood and J. Manthorpe, Department of Chemistry, Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi): Rapid on-column methylation of peptides and proteins to permit quantitative analysis using tandem mass spectrometry Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi) is an inexpensive and rapid on-column chemical derivatization technique to permit peptide methylation and quantitation. TrEnDi produces trimethylated primary amines that enhance and simplify label-free quantitation strategies via improved ionization through the formation of fixed quaternary ammonium ions. TrEnDi has been optimized on a microfluidic platform to successfully derivatize peptides from a protein digest with nearly 100% complete N-terminal methylation. Other amino acid side chains with pKa values of approximately 10.5 or less were also methylated. MS/MS analysis confirmed that N-termini trimethylated peptides fragmented to preferentially form the a2 ion, permitting a significant increase in sensitivity when scanning in the MRM mode. This allowed us to perform label-free MRM scanning of candidate peptides without prior knowledge of their fragmentation patterns. The trimethylated peptide N-termini were found to be very stable. However, hydrolysis of the newly formed methyl esters occurred over time. Hydrolysis was assisted using base hydrolysis in order to drive the derivatized peptides to homogeneity. To test the analytical sensitivity of derivatized peptides via MRM scanning, several low concentrations of the modified peptides were spiked into a series of more complex peptide solutions and the ability of the MRM method to obtain quantitative data was assessed. Our results have revealed that the trimethylated peptide N-termini produced strong MRM transitions and were identifiable at low concentrations, even in the presence of highly concentrated interferences. E. Bonneil1, F. Lamoliatte1,2, J. Saba4, O. Caron-Lizotte1 and Dr P. Thibault1,2,3, Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer1, and Departments of Chemistry2 and of Biochemistry3, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada, and Thermo Fisher Scientific4 Quantitative proteomics using FAIMS and isotopic labeling (Invited Talk) Isotopic labeling is a commonly used method in quantitative proteomics to profile changes in protein abundances across different cell conditions. Isotopic labeling can be performed using chemical reagents that target specific functional group on peptides (MS2 quantitation) or via metabolic labeling (stable isotope labeling of cell cultures, SILAC) where cells are cultured in media containing in either light or heavy isotopes of amino acids (MS quantitation). The predictable mass differences between peptides (or fragment ions) from two or more experimental conditions enable a direct quantification and provide precise functional information and temporal changes in the proteome. However, the dynamic range and precision of these quantitative measurements can be hampered by the increasing complexity of the mass spectra and the presence of co-eluting isobaric ions. In this context we evaluated the analytical potentials of high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) in large-scale quantitative proteomics experiments using stable isotope labeling on a LTQ-Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. The ability of FAIMS to separate multiply protonated compounds from singly charged background ions provided a unique advantage to extend the dynamic range of peptide detection while reducing the complexity of LC/MS peptide maps. FAIMS analyses performed on cell extracts derivatized with tandem mass tags (TMT)-6plex isotopic label reagent or grown under SILAC conditions provided improved quantitation and dynamic range compared with conventional nanoelectrospray. Quantitative proteomics analyses performed using FAIMS resulted in a reduction of mixed precursor ions and provided confident reporter ion measurements with increased peptide identification. Examples of application were presented for monitoring changes in the proteome of yeast and human cells. Ruijun Tian, Y. Shi, T. Hunter and T. Pawson, The Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Exploring bi-directional signaling in pancreatic tumor microenvironment by quantitative proteomics Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is one of the most lethal human cancers with resistance to many chemotherapeutic drugs. This drug resistance effect is believed to be partly caused by stromal-cancer cells interaction in pancreatic tumor microenvironment. Cell-cell interactions are often mediated by protein molecules expressed by one cell that are recognized by specific receptors present on neighboring cells. This intercellular communication activates specific signaling pathways through the induction of dynamic post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation and by protein-protein interactions. Here, we present the development of unbiased quantitative proteomics approaches to characterize a dynamic secretome and critical intracellular signaling in a simulated pancreatic tumor microenviroment in culture. A number of secreted ligand/receptor pairs have been explored which have significant effects on cancer cells proliferation. Our work establishes a generally applicable strategy for studying stromal-cancer cells communication and provides valuable resources for systematically understanding dysfunctional signaling networks in tumor microenvironment in a context closer to physiological conditions than was previously possible. Sarah Trimpin, Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA Matrix assisted ionization without a laser, heat, or voltage: identification of peptides and proteins directly from tissue (Invited Talk) A few years ago we introduced an ionization method for use in mass spectrometry (MS), applicable to volatile and nonvolatile compounds, which uses laser ablation of a matrix/analyte mixture similar to atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) but which produces mass spectra nearly identical to electrospray ionization (ESI). This new technique called laserspray ionization (LSI) has advantages of speed of analysis, high spatial resolution for imaging, mass range extension, and improved fragmentation common with multiply charged ions. LSI using the proper matrix was also shown to be capable of imaging multiply charged ions using atmospheric pressure or vacuum MALDI sources. Crucial for the production of highly charged ions are desolvation conditions to remove matrix from charged matrix/analyte clusters. By using a matrix that readily sublimes, we have now extended matrix-assisted ionization by eliminating the need for a laser or even heat to initiate ionization. Ions are spontaneously formed from a solid matrix/analyte material when introduced to a vacuum MALDI source without need of a laser, or to a modified ESI source without use of voltage. This matrix assisted ionization vacuum (MAIV) method produces similar charge states and drift times of ions, as determined by ion mobility spectrometry-MS, to ESI. Compounds at least as large as bovine serum albumin (67 kDa) become converted into highly charged gas-phase ions when exposed in the MAIV matrix to vacuum conditions. Such a simple ionization method, requiring only the vacuum necessary for the proper functioning of the mass spectrometer, may prove useful for analysis of single cells and in clinical applications. A possible mechanism for ionization involving sublimation/evaporation and charge generation through the mechanism that produces triboluminescence was discussed. Dietrich Volmer, Institute of Bioanalytical Chemistry, Saarland University, Saarbrücken, Germany New methods for improved determination of metabolic markers using advanced analytical mass spectrometry techniques (Invited Talk) New developments in metabolomics and metabolic profiling techniques have led to the discovery of metabolic biomarkers indicative of physiological or pathological change, e.g. onset of disease or nutritional effects of a specific diet. Experimental approaches for discovering new biomarkers usually involve proteomics or metabolomics techniques that detect differences between sample sets rather than measuring specific compounds as performed in traditional hypothesis-driven research. Unfortunately, finding metabolites present in significantly different levels between sample sets is often complicated by experimental variables such as method reproducibility, types of tissue sampling technique, analytical sample preparation technique, ion suppression phenomena, person-to-person or animal-to-animal metabolic variations, isobaric or isomeric noise, etc. All these error sources, variations or artefacts can lead to false assignment of metabolites or biomarkers and random and systematic errors during quantification. This presentation focused on our research on metabolite profiling techniques and sources of analytical errors. It presented examples for applications such as quantitative analysis and fingerprinting of vitamin D metabolites, microcystin toxin biomarkers and lipids. In addition, novel technical solutions involving ?magnetic? media (fluids and beads), ion mobility spectrometry and chemical labeling techniques were highlighted in this presentation. Fangjun Wang1, H. Zou1, M. Ye1 and Daniel Figeys2 1Key Lab of Separation Science for Analytical Chemistry, National Chromatography R 2Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology, Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. Recent development of technologies and methods for proteome analysis (Invited Talk) Technologies and methods play a highly important role for proteome analysis. Recent developments of technologies and methods for proteome analyses in our labs were presented:Combined technologies and methods, such as multi-enzyme digestion, different enrichment methods, multi-dimensional LC separation and different types of mass spectrometers, for comprehensive glycoproteome and phosphoproteome analysis of human liver; the largest dataset of protein phosphorylation and glycosylation for human liver was achieved.Solid-phase based technology by integrating all of the digestion, enrichment, and deglycosylation together with LC/MS analysis, was developed for glycoproteome analysis; both the identification sensitivity and the throughput were improved greatly.A solid-phase based labeling approach, by integration of glycopeptides and phosphopeptides enrichment and stable isotope labeling on adsorbent beads, was developed for relative quantification of protein glycosylation and phosphorylation.Six-plex stable isotope labeling was achieved by a two-stage stable isotope labeling strategy of SILAC and dimethylation isotope labeling, which allows six different protein samples (six-plex) to be reliably labeled and simultaneously quantified at MS1 level. This six-plex isotope labeling strategy was applied to investigate the dynamics of protein turnover, and the 50% turnover times of 1365 proteins within HeLa cells were successfully obtained. Hailin Wang, S. Liu, B. Zhao, D. Zhang, C. Li, State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. Insights on Isotachophoresis Kinetics from Monitoring Non-uniform Motion of single DNA molecules (Invited Talk) Isotachophoresis (ITP) has wide applications in chemistry and life sciences due to its pre-concentration function. A simplified ITP system consists of a leading electrolyte (LE) and a terminating electrolyte (TE). For LE and TE to migrate at the same velocity (v), the respective E in each zone must adapt to their electrophoretic mobility (?) according to Eqn. (1): The LE zone with a high electrophoretic mobility will have a low E, and the TE zone with a low electrophoretic mobility will have a high E. Current literature commonly assumes that the adaption of E is fast and is not the rate-limiting step. However, actual adaption kinetics of ITP has not been studied yet. Moreover, it is not clear how electroosmotic flow affects the kinetics of ITP. By taking advantage of single molecule imaging, we for the first time examined the changes in electric field and the resulting non-uniform motion of single DNA molecules in capillary isotachophoresis. The individual DNA molecules passing the detection window are consecutively imaged in real time at 50-millisecond intervals. Since the migration velocity of DNA is directly proportional to the applied electric field strength (E), imaging the movement of DNA provides necessary information for understanding the distribution of E throughout the capillary. This approach allows us to gain insights into the kinetics of varying-field ITP and enables us to develop a strategy for focusing and detecting single DNA molecules and DNA damages. John Wilkins, Departments of Internal Medicine, Biochemistry and Medical Genetics, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada Linking protein composition and functionality in biology and medicine (Invited Talk) The repertoire and functional state of proteins expressed by an organism ultimately determine their phenotype. Thus, the inclusion of measures of protein activity is an essential step to developing valid models of biological systems in disease and health. While genomics and proteomics provide detailed information on potential and current protein composition, these approaches generally offer limited insight regarding protein functional states. However, many proteins possess catalytic activities that are stringently controlled by mechanisms that restrict substrate accessibility to the active site. This is the central premise of activity-based protein profiling. The use of enzyme activity as a predictor of organ function or health offers several advantages in the clinical environment. The assays can be highly specific because of the structural features of their substrates. The high substrate turnover numbers of enzymes provides an amplification mechanism that increases assay sensitivity. Activity-based profiling offers a means of probing clinical samples for novel enzymatic activities as new reporters. Some of our experiences in the application of this approach profiling assessing renal function were presented. The identification of a protein, even an active one, does not necessarily address the questions of ?What does the protein do?? and ?Why is it needed??. These questions can be further complicated by the observations that function(s) are often context specific. We have used integrated proteomic, activity based protein profiling and functional genomics approaches in an effort to examine lymphocyte migration, a process that is central to normal immune function. Derek Wilson, T. Rob, D. Golemi-Kotra and P. Kama-Gill, Department of Chemistry, York University, Toronto, Canada Microfluidics-enabled, sub-second hydrogen/deuterium exchange pulse labeling reveals allosteric 'hotspots' in enzymes Regulation of metabolic pathways is achieved by modulation of enzyme activity, commonly via direct interactions at the active site. However, a substantial number of enzymes are also sensitive to changes at locations well removed from the site of catalysis. These 'allosteric' effects are easily detected, but are exceedingly difficult to characterize because they are usually driven by subtle changes in conformation or dynamics. In this work we use a new microfluidic chip that incorporates a bottom-up workflow with sub-second H/D exchange pulse labeling to probe time-dependent structural and dynamic changes in the beta-lactamase enzyme TEM-1 upon inhibitor binding. Changes in deuterium uptake were noted from the first time-point after acylation, corresponding to both increases and decreases in labeling ('loosening' and 'tightening' of the structure, respectively). As the acyl-enzyme was allowed to age, time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were detected, indicating the presence of slow structural changes occurring up to 2 s after acylation. In general, peptides showing instantaneous changes in uptake were located near the active site, while peptides that exhibited time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were located at the periphery of the enzyme. In the active site, patterns of increasing and decreasing rigidity explain the roles of Arg244 and Asn276 in the inhibitory mechanism. At the periphery, slow changes in uptake are observed specifically in allosteric 'hotspots' that include residues known from mutational analysis to play a role in TEM-1 catalytic efficiency. David Wishart, Departments of Biological Sciences and Computing Science, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Clearing the biomarker barrier: Moving biomarkers from the bench to the bedside (Invited Talk) One of the great promises of the 'omics' era was the delivery of a gene or a protein to diagnose every disease. Unfortunately this hasn't quite happened. While our understanding of the etiology of disease has improved tremendously our ability to diagnose or predict disease has not. This has a lot to do with our inability to translate biomarkers from the bench to the bedside. Indeed, after nearly 20 years of work and more than $5 billion in investment, there have been only a few microarray tests and, as yet, no protein-array or proteomic tests approved by the FDA for diseases diagnosis. On the other hand, dozens of metabolomic biomarkers have successfully made the transition from the lab to the clinic. Why? This presentation discussed some of the secrets to the success of metabolomics in clearing the 'biomarker barrier'. In particular, some key guidelines for designing, performing and reporting biomarkers in a biomarker study, as well as some advice with regard to the process of moving biomarkers from the laboratory to the clinic, were provided. Some examples of how quantitative metabolomics is being used to identify biomarkers for a wide range of diseases, and the status of my lab's efforts to try to move some these biomarkers into clinical testing, were also discussed. THE KEN STANDING AWARD LECTURE (Sponsored by the University of Manitoba) Lars Konermann, Departments of Chemistry and of Biochemistry, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada Electrospray mass spectrometry as a readout of protein structure and function Proteins are nanomachines that carry out countless tasks in every living organism. To perform these functions, the linear amino acid chain of each protein has to fold into a highly specific three-dimensional structure. On the other hand, misfolding and aggregation are associated with diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. X-ray crystallography remains the gold standard for obtaining high-resolution structural information. However, the data generated in this way do not properly reflect the highly dynamic nature of proteins, which is a key prerequisite for biological function. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) provides a number of avenues for exploring protein structure, function, folding, and dynamics. Our laboratory specializes in the use of hydrogen exchange and covalent labeling techniques. This presentation discussed time-resolved investigations that provide detailed insights into the mechanisms of protein folding. The area of membrane protein structure and function, and the use of ESI-MS for probing biological self-assembly processes, were also discussed. In addition, recent advances in understanding the physical processes that allow the formation of gaseous biomolecular ions during ESI were presented. THE BILL DAVIDSON GRADUATE STUDENT TRAVEL AWARD (Sponsored by ABSciex) Feng Li, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dr X. Chris Le, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dynamic DNA assemblies mediated by binding-induced DNA strand displacement Dynamic DNA assemblies have shown promising potential to regulate cell activities, deliver therapeutic compounds, and amplify detection signals for molecular diagnostics and imaging. However, such applications of dynamic DNA assembly systems have been limited to nucleic acids and a few small molecules. It is challenging to construct dynamic DNA assemblies that are responsive to proteins. We have developed a binding-induced DNA strand displacement strategy that can convert protein binding to the release of a predesigned output DNA at room temperature with high conversion efficiency and low background. This strategy allows us to construct dynamic DNA assembly systems that are able to respond to specific protein binding, opening an opportunity to expand the existing dynamic DNA nanotechnology to proteins for diverse applications. We have applied this strategy to design a binding-induced DNA strand displacement beacon and a binding-induced DNA circuit, both of which are triggered by protein binding. We have demonstrated the detection of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and prostate specific antigen (PSA). Further applications could be in the area of point-of-care analysis of proteins that could be performed under ambient temperature and without requiring the use of enzymes for signal generation and/or amplification. POSTER PRESENTATIONS J. Anichina, A. Schreiber, R. Bonner and T. Sakuma High-resolution tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the interactions of oligonucleotides with selected river basin specific pollutants E. Forsberg and J. Brennan Bio-solid phase extraction and information dependent tandem mass spectrometry for the identification of enzyme inhibitors in complex mixtures H. Li, S. Bergeron, and D. Juncker Snap chip 2.0: Double microarray-to-microarray transfer for easy-to-use, high-density antibody colocalization microarrays P. Liuni and D. J. Wilson Investigating catalysis-linked dynamics in yeast alcohol dehydrogenase by measuring kinetic isotope effects using time-resolved ESI-MS with H/D exchange. P. S. Lo, V. Laforte, S. Bergeron, J. Marcoux and D. Juncker Using the antibody colocalization microarray to measure proteins in complex samples from severe traumatic brain injury patients Z. Ning, D. Seebun, B. Hawley, C.-K. Chiang and D. Figeys From cells to peptides: 'One-stop' integrated proteomic processing using Amphipols D.J. Orton, J.P. Rogers and A.A. Doucette A dual capillary nanospray interface for improved throughput in LC/MS A. Sardar iTRAQ coupled 2D-LC-MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis reveals proteome changes associated Leishmania donovani promastigote adaptation to oxidative and nitrosative stress A. M. Smith and J.D. Brennan Development of a multiplexed kinase assay via MALDI-MS/MS detection J. Song, X. Tang, L. Li, L.C. Palmer, D. Pinto and K. Chisholm OFFGEL peptide pre-fractionation is essential for proteomic approaches employing quantitative stable isotope dimethyl labeling and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in fruit proteomic research C. Stephan Pushing the frontier in ICP-MS applications: Counting and sizing nanoparticles using single particle ICP-MS D. Williams, S. Madler, L.V. DeSouza, A. Matta and K.W.M. Siu Intracellular signalling network expression profiling by LC/MS with a heavy isotope-labelled QconCAT internal standard Information about past and future symposia and conferences organized by ETP can be found at the website www.etpsymposium.org. Robert K. Boyd, Researcher Emeritus, National Research Council of Canada Chair, Science Advisory Committee, ETP
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Luke, Patrick P.W.
AU  - Nguan, Christopher Y.
AU  - Horovitz, David
AU  - Gregor, Laura
AU  - Warren, Jeff
AU  - House, Andrew A.
TI  - Immunosuppression without calcineurin inhibition: optimization of renal function in expanded criteria donor renal transplantation
JO  - Clinical Transplantation
VL  - 23
IS  - 1
SN  - 0902-0063
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-0012.2008.00880.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1399-0012.2008.00880.x
SP  - 9
EP  - 15
KW  - calcineurin inhibitor
KW  - expanded donor
KW  - renal transplantation
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract:? Introduction:? To assess the efficacy of calcineurin inhibitor (CNI)-free immunosuppression vs. calcineurin-based immunosuppression in patients receiving expanded criteria donor (ECD) kidneys. Patient and methods:? Thirteen recipients of ECD kidneys were enrolled in this pilot study and treated with induction therapy and maintained on sirolimus, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and prednisone. A contemporaneous control group was randomly selected comprised of 13 recipients of ECD kidneys who had been maintained on CNI plus MMF and prednisone. Results:? For the study group vs. the control group, two-yr graft survival was 92.3% vs. 84.6% (p?=?NS), two-yr patient survival was 100% vs. 92.3% (p?=?NS) and the acute rejection rates were 23% vs. 31% (p?=?NS), respectively. Renal function was significantly better in the study group compared with control up to the six-month mark, after which, it remained numerically but not statistically significant. Complications were more common in the study group, but serious adverse events requiring discontinuation were rare. Conclusion:? This pilot study demonstrates that CNI-free regimens can be safely implemented in patients receiving ECD kidneys with excellent two-yr patient and graft survival and good renal allograft function. Longer follow-up in larger randomized controlled trials are necessary to establish these findings.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kosmoliaptsis, V.
AU  - Salji, M.
AU  - Bardsley, V.
AU  - Chen, Y.
AU  - Thiru, S.
AU  - Griffiths, M. H.
AU  - Copley, H. C.
AU  - Saeb-Parsy, K.
AU  - Bradley, J. A.
AU  - Torpey, N.
AU  - Pettigrew, G. J.
TI  - Baseline Donor Chronic Renal Injury Confers the Same Transplant Survival Disadvantage for DCD and DBD Kidneys
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 15
IS  - 3
SN  - 1600-6135
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.13009
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.13009
SP  - 754
EP  - 763
KW  - Clinical research/practice
KW  - kidney transplantation/nephrology
KW  - pathology/histopathology
KW  - kidney (allograft) function/dysfunction
KW  - donors and donation: donation after circulatory death (DCD)
PY  - 2015
AB  - Histological assessment of baseline chronic kidney injury may discriminate kidneys that are suitable for transplantation, but has not been validated for appraisal of donation after circulatory death (DCD) kidneys. ?Time-zero' biopsies for 371 consecutive, solitary, deceased-donor kidneys transplanted at our center between 2006 and 2010 (65.5% DCD, 34.5% donation after brain death [DBD]) were reviewed and baseline chronic degenerative injury scored using Remuzzi's classification. High scores correlated with donor age and extended criteria donors (42% of donors), but the spectrum of scores was similar for DCD and DBD kidneys. Transplant outcomes for kidneys scoring from 0 to 4 were comparable (1 and 3 year graft survival 95% and 92%), but were much poorer for kidneys scoring ≥5, with 1 year graft survival only 73%, and 12.5% suffering primary nonfunction. Critically, high Remuzzi scores conferred the same survival disadvantage for DCD and DBD kidneys. On multi-variable regression analysis, time-zero biopsy score was the only independent predictor for graft survival, whereas one-year graft estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) correlated with donor age and biopsy score. In conclusion, the relationship between severity of chronic kidney injury and transplant outcome is similar for DCD and DBD kidneys. Kidneys with Remuzzi scores of ≤4 can be implanted singly with acceptable results.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vinukonda, Govindaiah
AU  - Hu, Furong
AU  - Mehdizadeh, Rana
AU  - Dohare, Preeti
AU  - Kidwai, Ali
AU  - Juneja, Ankit
AU  - Naran, Vineet
AU  - Kierstead, Maria
AU  - Chawla, Rachit
AU  - Kayton, Robert
AU  - Ballabh, Praveen
TI  - Epidermal growth factor preserves myelin and promotes astrogliosis after intraventricular hemorrhage
JO  - Glia
JA  - Glia
VL  - 64
IS  - 11
SN  - 0894-1491
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/glia.23037
DO  - doi:10.1002/glia.23037
SP  - 1987
EP  - 2004
KW  - epidermal growth factor
KW  - myelination
KW  - astrogliosis
KW  - oligodendrocyte progenitor cells
KW  - intraventricular hemorrhage
KW  - premature infants
PY  - 2016
AB  - Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) leads to reduced myelination and astrogliosis of the white matter in premature infants. No therapeutic strategy exists to minimize white matter injury in survivors with IVH. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) enhances myelination, astrogliosis, and neurologic recovery in animal models of white matter injury. Here, we hypothesized that recombinant human (rh) EGF treatment would enhance oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) maturation, myelination, and neurological recovery in preterm rabbits with IVH. In addition, rhEGF would promote astrogliosis by inducing astroglial progenitor proliferation and GFAP transcription. We tested these hypotheses in a preterm rabbit model of IVH and evaluated autopsy samples from human preterm infants. We found that EGF and EGFR expression were more abundant in the ganglionic eminence relative to the cortical plate and white matter of human infants and that the development of IVH reduced EGF levels, but not EGFR expression. Accordingly, rhEGF treatment promoted proliferation and maturation of OPCs, preserved myelin in the white matter, and enhanced neurological recovery in rabbits with IVH. rhEGF treatment inhibited Notch signaling, which conceivably contributed to OPC maturation. rhEGF treatment contributed to astrogliosis by increasing astroglial proliferation and upregulating GFAP as well as Sox9 expression. Hence, IVH results in a decline in EGF expression; and rhEGF treatment preserves myelin, restores neurological recovery, and exacerbates astrogliosis by inducing proliferation of astrocytes and enhancing transcription of GFAP and Sox9 in pups with IVH. rhEGF treatment might improve the neurological outcome of premature infants with IVH. GLIA 2016;64:1987?2004
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Aboalsamh, Ghaleb
AU  - Anderson, Patrick
AU  - Al-Abbassi, Amira
AU  - McAlister, Vivian
AU  - Luke, Patrick P.
AU  - Sener, Alp
TI  - Heparin infusion in simultaneous pancreas and kidney transplantation reduces graft thrombosis and improves graft survival
JO  - Clinical Transplantation
JA  - Clin Transplant
VL  - 30
IS  - 9
SN  - 0902-0063
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ctr.12780
DO  - doi:10.1111/ctr.12780
SP  - 1002
EP  - 1009
KW  - graft loss
KW  - heparin
KW  - pancreas transplantation
KW  - thromboprophylaxis
KW  - thrombosis
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Introduction Thrombosis of the pancreas after transplantation is the most common cause of relaparotomy and resultant graft loss. There is currently no standard protocol consistently proven to prevent thrombosis following transplantation. Our objective was to determine whether our protocol of post-operative low-dose intravenous (IV) heparin infusion would prevent graft thrombosis without additional complications in our patients. Methods A total of 66 simultaneous pancreas kidney (SPK) transplants were performed at our institution from 2004 to 2014. Patients were divided into 2 retrospective cohort groups. Group 1 patients received only acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 81 mg/d started on post-operative day 1. Group 2 patients received IV heparin infusion beginning in the recovery room at a rate of 500 IU/h for the first 24 hours, reduced by 100 IU/h every day to stop on day 5, and then received ASA 81 mg/d afterward. Outcome and complication rates were compared between the two groups for 5 years post-transplant. Results We observed a significant reduction in graft thrombosis and graft loss with (0/29) patients in the heparin group vs (7/33) 25.7% from the non-heparin (P<.01) with no differences in complication rates. Conclusions We present a heparin infusion protocol which may help prevent graft thrombosis and graft loss in SPK transplantation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ch’ng, S.
AU  - Low, I.
AU  - Brasch, H.
AU  - Sullivan, M.
AU  - Davis, P.
AU  - Tan, S. T.
TI  - PR11 *HEAD & NECK CUTANEOUS SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA – UNDERSTANDING THE TUMOUR MICROENVIRONMENT
JO  - ANZ Journal of Surgery
VL  - 79
IS  - s1
SN  - 1445-1433
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.2009.04927_11.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.2009.04927_11.x
SP  - A56
EP  - A56
PY  - 2009
AB  - Background:?? HNcSCC is common in Australasia. Recent advances have led to new paradigms in our understanding of the complex interactions between tumour, stromal and immune cells, and the extracellular matrix. The deranged interplay between tumour and its microenvironment eventually spirals towards irreversibility. The repertoire of gene expression in the tumour becomes increasingly abnormal, and results in metastasis. Purpose:?? To examine the tumour microenvironment including, tumour immunosurveillance, angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis, and investigate the expression of EGFR, which is fundamental to skin physiology, in HNcSCC. Methods:?? Archived HNcSCC specimens were stratified into groups of primary lesions with and without metastasis. (Immuno) histochemical analysis was performed for the differential parameters of peritumoural mast cell, microvessel and lymphatic vessel densities, VEGF and EGFR expression. The effects of mast cells on cell cycle and apoptotic gene expression were studied using cell co-culture and cDNA micro-array. The mechanism of EGFR over-expression in metastatic HNcSCC and its potential link with HER2 were assessed with fluorescence in-situ hybridisation. Results:?? Although mast cells demonstrate a tumour inhibitory effect by deregulating the cell cycle and apoptosis in vitro, this observation is not corroborated by study of tissue specimens. Lymphatic vessel density (but not microvessel density or VEGF expression) predicts metastatic potential. 75% of primary HNcSCC that subsequently metastasise over-express EGFR, with the majority harbouring HER2 polysomy. Conclusion:?? Improved understanding of the tumour microenvironment will hopefully lead to development of novel biologic therapy for HNcSCC.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ding, Miao
AU  - Zhang, Erlong
AU  - He, Rong
AU  - Wang, Xingyong
TI  - Newly developed strategies for improving sensitivity to radiation by targeting signal pathways in cancer therapy
JO  - Cancer Science
JA  - Cancer Sci
VL  - 104
IS  - 11
SN  - 1347-9032
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cas.12252
DO  - doi:10.1111/cas.12252
SP  - 1401
EP  - 1410
PY  - 2013
AB  - Inherent and acquired resistance of cancer cells is increasingly recognized as a significant impediment to effective radiation cancer treatment. As important intracellular factors, aberrant tumor transmembrane signal transduction pathways, which include the prosurvival cascades (PI3K/Akt, MAPK/ERK and JAK/STAT) and the proapoptosis pathways (Wnt, p53 and TNF-α/NF-?B), have been proved to be crucial determinants of the probability of cell sensitivity to radiation in malignant lesions. There is increasing evidence that targeting the abnormal pathways that can regulate the activity of the DNA damage response and further influence the response of tumor cells to radiation may be suitable for improving radiation sensitization. Preclinical and clinical evidence suggest that agents targeting aberrant tumor signals can effectively improve the therapeutic effect of ionizing radiation. Therefore, in this review, we discuss the intricate interplay between tumor responses to radiation with the aberrant signal pathways, and the potential druggable targets within the pathways to sensitize tumors without significant collateral damage to normal tissues. The application of novel targeting compounds to manipulate the aberrant signal of tumor cells in clinical treatments is also addressed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wong, M.
AU  - Glass, E.
AU  -             DeLahunta, A.
AU  - Jackson, B.
TI  - Intracranial anaplastic astrocytoma in a 19-week-old boxer dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 52
IS  - 6
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2011.01066.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2011.01066.x
SP  - 325
EP  - 328
PY  - 2011
AB  - A 19-week-old, entire female boxer dog was presented for evaluation of chronic, progressive multi-focal neurological signs. Magnetic resonance imaging suggested a large intra-axial mass in the brainstem. Euthanasia was performed and an anaplastic astrocytoma was found at post-mortem examination. This case reports an unusual naturally occurring brain tumour in a young dog.
ER  - 
