
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gerding, J. C.
AU  - Gilger, B. C.
TI  - Prognosis and impact of equine recurrent uveitis
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 48
IS  - 3
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12451
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12451
SP  - 290
EP  - 298
KW  - horse
KW  - recurrent
KW  - uveitis
KW  - retrospective
KW  - outcome
KW  - leptospirosis
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study Equine recurrent uveitis (ERU) is a leading cause of vision loss in horses. Objectives To assess the prognosis and impact of ERU on affected horses and their owners by evaluating the signalment, treatment and outcome (including the loss of use, vision assessment and economic loss). Study design Retrospective impact study. Methods Medical records of horses presenting to the North Carolina State University Veterinary Health Complex (NCSU-VHC) with ERU between 1999 and 2014 were reviewed. Signalment, clinical signs, ophthalmic examination findings, treatments and outcomes were evaluated. Owner questionnaires were completed regarding vision, job/role, monetary value, diagnostic and treatment costs, concurrent illness and outcomes. Results Records of 224 horses (338 eyes) with ERU were reviewed. There was an overrepresentation of Appaloosas (54; 24.1%), Hanoverians (11; 4.9%) and other Warmbloods (13; 5.8%). Ninety-six eyes (28.4%) were diagnosed as blind and 38 eyes (11.2%) with glaucoma on initial evaluation. Leptospirosis titres of serum and/or aqueous humour were obtained in 88 horses and were positive in 40 horses (45.5%), with L. pomona being the most frequently isolated serovar. Globe loss at the NCSU-VHC occurred in 41 ERU eyes (12.1% of total). Owner questionnaires were evaluated in 194 horses (86.6%) and 91 horses (46.9%) were reported blind in the affected eye(s). Fifty-seven horses (29.4%) did not return to their previous role, while 61 (31.4%) performed at a reduced level. Equine recurrent uveitis decreased the monetary value of 164 horses. Twenty-nine horses (14.9%) were euthanised and 37 (19.1%) underwent change in ownership as a direct result of ERU. Conclusions The impact of ERU is attributed to the high frequency of blindness, globe loss and loss of function. Euthanasia and change of ownership are common sequelae to the progressive nature of ERU. These factors, along with financial costs of the disease, have a significant impact on affected horses and their owners. The Summary is available in Chinese ? see Supporting Information.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ma, K.-C.
AU  - Olsson, Y.
TI  - Structural and vascular permeability abnormalities associated with lacunes of the human brain
JO  - Acta Neurologica Scandinavica
VL  - 88
IS  - 2
SN  - 0001-6314
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0404.1993.tb04199.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0404.1993.tb04199.x
SP  - 100
EP  - 107
KW  - lacunes
KW  - cerebrovascular diseases
KW  - vasogenic brain oedema
KW  - plasma proteins
KW  - basal ganglia
KW  - blood-brain barrier
PY  - 1993
AB  - Histopathological and immune-histochemical studies were carried out in four cases with multiple lacunes of the central grey matter and in control cases without such lesions. Routine light microscopic techniques were applied on paraffin-embedded material to identify lesions that may represent developing lacunes. In addition, polyclonal antisera to human albumin, IgG, fibrinogen and fibronectin were chosen as markers for extravasated plasma proteins. The brain tissue between lacunes contained several forms of focal injuries which may represent precursors of lacunes. Such lesions included foci of status spongiosus and status cribrosus, regions with dilated extracellular spaces and astrocytic gliosis, and multi-locular cysts. These ?lacune-associated lesions? often included albumin immune-reactivity in extracellular spaces, nerve cell bodies and astrocytes. Less frequently signs of extravasated IgG, fibrinogen and fibronectin were identified. Thus, lacunes of the human brain frequently showed signs of antigenic sites to albumin. The extracellular deposits probably represent extravasated material from the blood. Vasogenic and cytotoxic oedema combined with other factors probably play important roles during the formation of some of the lacunes.
ER  - 

AU  - Dixon, Marjorie
AU  - MacDonald, Anita
AU  - Stafford, Jacky
AU  - Portnoi, Pat
C7  - pp. 526-587
TI  - Disorders of Carbohydrate Metabolism
SN  - 9780470659984
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118915349.ch18
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118915349.ch18
SP  - 526-587
KW  - autosomal recessive disorders
KW  - dietary management
KW  - galactokinase deficiency
KW  - galactosaemia
KW  - galactose metabolism
KW  - glycogen storage disorders
KW  - ketogenic diet (KD)
PY  - 1993
AB  - Summary Autosomal recessive disorders of galactose metabolism are caused by one of three sequential enzymes such as galactokinase, galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT) and uridine diphosphate galactose-4-epimerase (GALE). The disorders are galactokinase deficiency, galactosaemia and glycogen storage disorders. The chapter describes clinical features, diagnosis and treatment method and dietary management for the three types of disorders. Classical galactosaemia presents in the neonatal period with life threatening illness after galactose is introduced in the diet. Symptoms and signs include poor feeding, vomiting and diarrhoea, weight loss, jaundice, hypotonia, cataracts, hepatosplenomegaly, hepatocellular insufficiency and encephalopathy. Three forms of galactosaemia are classical galactosaemia, clinical variant galactosaemia and biochemical variant galactosaemia. Management with a ketogenic diet (KD) is the first line treatment including cases where there is a strong clinical suspicion and low cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glucose, but absent SLC2A1 mutation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - CHIA, Faith Li-Ann
AU  - THONG, Bernard Yu-Hor
AU  - LAU, Tang-Ching
AU  - FENG, Pao-Hsii
TI  - Recurrent fractures in an elderly patient with systemic lupus erythematosus
JO  - International Journal of Rheumatic Diseases
VL  - 12
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780470659984
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1756-185X.2009.01422.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1756-185X.2009.01422.x
SP  - 256
EP  - 263
KW  - Drug treatment
KW  - systemic lupus erythematosus
KW  - systemic lupus erythematosus: clinical aspects
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIO) is an important problem that remains undertreated, even by rheumatologists. We present a case of an elderly patient with systemic lupus erythematosus diagnosed more than 40?years ago, who suffered from recurrent fractures and attendant complications despite a bone mineral density (BMD) score in the osteopenic range and treatment with bisphosphonates. With improved treatment and outcome of lupus, an increasing number of elderly patients who are susceptible to osteoporotic fractures are expected. This case serves to highlight that rheumatic disease patients on steroids should be screened for GIO, as effective treatment and preventive measures are available. Teriparatide is a promising treatment for patients who have failed bisphosphonate treatment or who are at high risk for fracture. We should also bear in mind that BMD scores alone are not indicative of fracture risk, and other tools such as the WHO-FRAX (Fracture risk assessment tool), serum vitamin D3 levels and bone turnover markers should be used where appropriate. Other measures including attention to factors that contribute to falls should also be considered, necessitating a multi-disciplinary approach.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cossarizza, Andrea
AU  - Chang, Hyun-Dong
AU  - Radbruch, Andreas
AU  - Acs, Andreas
AU  - Adam, Dieter
AU  - Adam-Klages, Sabine
AU  - Agace, William W.
AU  - Aghaeepour, Nima
AU  - Akdis, Mübeccel
AU  - Allez, Matthieu
AU  - Almeida, Larissa Nogueira
AU  - Alvisi, Giorgia
AU  - Anderson, Graham
AU  - Andrä, Immanuel
AU  - Annunziato, Francesco
AU  - Anselmo, Achille
AU  - Bacher, Petra
AU  - Baldari, Cosima T.
AU  - Bari, Sudipto
AU  - Barnaba, Vincenzo
AU  - Barros-Martins, Joana
AU  - Battistini, Luca
AU  - Bauer, Wolfgang
AU  - Baumgart, Sabine
AU  - Baumgarth, Nicole
AU  - Baumjohann, Dirk
AU  - Baying, Bianka
AU  - Bebawy, Mary
AU  - Becher, Burkhard
AU  - Beisker, Wolfgang
AU  - Benes, Vladimir
AU  - Beyaert, Rudi
AU  - Blanco, Alfonso
AU  - Boardman, Dominic A.
AU  - Bogdan, Christian
AU  - Borger, Jessica G.
AU  - Borsellino, Giovanna
AU  - Boulais, Philip E.
AU  - Bradford, Jolene A.
AU  - Brenner, Dirk
AU  - Brinkman, Ryan R.
AU  - Brooks, Anna E. S.
AU  - Busch, Dirk H.
AU  - Büscher, Martin
AU  - Bushnell, Timothy P.
AU  - Calzetti, Federica
AU  - Cameron, Garth
AU  - Cammarata, Ilenia
AU  - Cao, Xuetao
AU  - Cardell, Susanna L.
AU  - Casola, Stefano
AU  - Cassatella, Marco A.
AU  - Cavani, Andrea
AU  - Celada, Antonio
AU  - Chatenoud, Lucienne
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Pratip K.
AU  - Chow, Sue
AU  - Christakou, Eleni
AU  - Čičin-Šain, Luka
AU  - Clerici, Mario
AU  - Colombo, Federico S.
AU  - Cook, Laura
AU  - Cooke, Anne
AU  - Cooper, Andrea M.
AU  - Corbett, Alexandra J.
AU  - Cosma, Antonio
AU  - Cosmi, Lorenzo
AU  - Coulie, Pierre G.
AU  - Cumano, Ana
AU  - Cvetkovic, Ljiljana
AU  - Dang, Van Duc
AU  - Dang-Heine, Chantip
AU  - Davey, Martin S.
AU  - Davies, Derek
AU  - De Biasi, Sara
AU  - Del Zotto, Genny
AU  - Dela Cruz, Gelo Victoriano
AU  - Delacher, Michael
AU  - Della Bella, Silvia
AU  - Dellabona, Paolo
AU  - Deniz, Günnur
AU  - Dessing, Mark
AU  - Di Santo, James P.
AU  - Diefenbach, Andreas
AU  - Dieli, Francesco
AU  - Dolf, Andreas
AU  - Dörner, Thomas
AU  - Dress, Regine J.
AU  - Dudziak, Diana
AU  - Dustin, Michael
AU  - Dutertre, Charles-Antoine
AU  - Ebner, Friederike
AU  - Eckle, Sidonia B. G.
AU  - Edinger, Matthias
AU  - Eede, Pascale
AU  - Ehrhardt, Götz R.A.
AU  - Eich, Marcus
AU  - Engel, Pablo
AU  - Engelhardt, Britta
AU  - Erdei, Anna
AU  - Esser, Charlotte
AU  - Everts, Bart
AU  - Evrard, Maximilien
AU  - Falk, Christine S.
AU  - Fehniger, Todd A.
AU  - Felipo-Benavent, Mar
AU  - Ferry, Helen
AU  - Feuerer, Markus
AU  - Filby, Andrew
AU  - Filkor, Kata
AU  - Fillatreau, Simon
AU  - Follo, Marie
AU  - Förster, Irmgard
AU  - Foster, John
AU  - Foulds, Gemma A.
AU  - Frehse, Britta
AU  - Frenette, Paul S.
AU  - Frischbutter, Stefan
AU  - Fritzsche, Wolfgang
AU  - Galbraith, David W.
AU  - Gangaev, Anastasia
AU  - Garbi, Natalio
AU  - Gaudilliere, Brice
AU  - Gazzinelli, Ricardo T.
AU  - Geginat, Jens
AU  - Gerner, Wilhelm
AU  - Gherardin, Nicholas A.
AU  - Ghoreschi, Kamran
AU  - Gibellini, Lara
AU  - Ginhoux, Florent
AU  - Goda, Keisuke
AU  - Godfrey, Dale I.
AU  - Goettlinger, Christoph
AU  - González-Navajas, Jose M.
AU  - Goodyear, Carl S.
AU  - Gori, Andrea
AU  - Grogan, Jane L.
AU  - Grummitt, Daryl
AU  - Grützkau, Andreas
AU  - Haftmann, Claudia
AU  - Hahn, Jonas
AU  - Hammad, Hamida
AU  - Hämmerling, Günter
AU  - Hansmann, Leo
AU  - Hansson, Goran
AU  - Harpur, Christopher M.
AU  - Hartmann, Susanne
AU  - Hauser, Andrea
AU  - Hauser, Anja E.
AU  - Haviland, David L.
AU  - Hedley, David
AU  - Hernández, Daniela C.
AU  - Herrera, Guadalupe
AU  - Herrmann, Martin
AU  - Hess, Christoph
AU  - Höfer, Thomas
AU  - Hoffmann, Petra
AU  - Hogquist, Kristin
AU  - Holland, Tristan
AU  - Höllt, Thomas
AU  - Holmdahl, Rikard
AU  - Hombrink, Pleun
AU  - Houston, Jessica P.
AU  - Hoyer, Bimba F.
AU  - Huang, Bo
AU  - Huang, Fang-Ping
AU  - Huber, Johanna E.
AU  - Huehn, Jochen
AU  - Hundemer, Michael
AU  - Hunter, Christopher A.
AU  - Hwang, William Y. K.
AU  - Iannone, Anna
AU  - Ingelfinger, Florian
AU  - Ivison, Sabine M
AU  - Jäck, Hans-Martin
AU  - Jani, Peter K.
AU  - Jávega, Beatriz
AU  - Jonjic, Stipan
AU  - Kaiser, Toralf
AU  - Kalina, Tomas
AU  - Kamradt, Thomas
AU  - Kaufmann, Stefan H. E.
AU  - Keller, Baerbel
AU  - Ketelaars, Steven L. C.
AU  - Khalilnezhad, Ahad
AU  - Khan, Srijit
AU  - Kisielow, Jan
AU  - Klenerman, Paul
AU  - Knopf, Jasmin
AU  - Koay, Hui-Fern
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Kolls, Jay K.
AU  - Kong, Wan Ting
AU  - Kopf, Manfred
AU  - Korn, Thomas
AU  - Kriegsmann, Katharina
AU  - Kristyanto, Hendy
AU  - Kroneis, Thomas
AU  - Krueger, Andreas
AU  - Kühne, Jenny
AU  - Kukat, Christian
AU  - Kunkel, Désirée
AU  - Kunze-Schumacher, Heike
AU  - Kurosaki, Tomohiro
AU  - Kurts, Christian
AU  - Kvistborg, Pia
AU  - Kwok, Immanuel
AU  - Landry, Jonathan
AU  - Lantz, Olivier
AU  - Lanuti, Paola
AU  - LaRosa, Francesca
AU  - Lehuen, Agnès
AU  - LeibundGut-Landmann, Salomé
AU  - Leipold, Michael D.
AU  - Leung, Leslie Y.T.
AU  - Levings, Megan K.
AU  - Lino, Andreia C.
AU  - Liotta, Francesco
AU  - Litwin, Virginia
AU  - Liu, Yanling
AU  - Ljunggren, Hans-Gustaf
AU  - Lohoff, Michael
AU  - Lombardi, Giovanna
AU  - Lopez, Lilly
AU  - López-Botet, Miguel
AU  - Lovett-Racke, Amy E.
AU  - Lubberts, Erik
AU  - Luche, Herve
AU  - Ludewig, Burkhard
AU  - Lugli, Enrico
AU  - Lunemann, Sebastian
AU  - Maecker, Holden T.
AU  - Maggi, Laura
AU  - Maguire, Orla
AU  - Mair, Florian
AU  - Mair, Kerstin H.
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
AU  - Manz, Rudolf A.
AU  - Marshall, Aaron J.
AU  - Martínez-Romero, Alicia
AU  - Martrus, Glòria
AU  - Marventano, Ivana
AU  - Maslinski, Wlodzimierz
AU  - Matarese, Giuseppe
AU  - Mattioli, Anna Vittoria
AU  - Maueröder, Christian
AU  - Mazzoni, Alessio
AU  - McCluskey, James
AU  - McGrath, Mairi
AU  - McGuire, Helen M.
AU  - McInnes, Iain B.
AU  - Mei, Henrik E.
AU  - Melchers, Fritz
AU  - Melzer, Susanne
AU  - Mielenz, Dirk
AU  - Miller, Stephen D.
AU  - Mills, Kingston H.G.
AU  - Minderman, Hans
AU  - Mjösberg, Jenny
AU  - Moore, Jonni
AU  - Moran, Barry
AU  - Moretta, Lorenzo
AU  - Mosmann, Tim R.
AU  - Müller, Susann
AU  - Multhoff, Gabriele
AU  - Muñoz, Luis Enrique
AU  - Münz, Christian
AU  - Nakayama, Toshinori
AU  - Nasi, Milena
AU  - Neumann, Katrin
AU  - Ng, Lai Guan
AU  - Niedobitek, Antonia
AU  - Nourshargh, Sussan
AU  - Núñez, Gabriel
AU  - O'Connor, José-Enrique
AU  - Ochel, Aaron
AU  - Oja, Anna
AU  - Ordonez, Diana
AU  - Orfao, Alberto
AU  - Orlowski-Oliver, Eva
AU  - Ouyang, Wenjun
AU  - Oxenius, Annette
AU  - Palankar, Raghavendra
AU  - Panse, Isabel
AU  - Pattanapanyasat, Kovit
AU  - Paulsen, Malte
AU  - Pavlinic, Dinko
AU  - Penter, Livius
AU  - Peterson, Pärt
AU  - Peth, Christian
AU  - Petriz, Jordi
AU  - Piancone, Federica
AU  - Pickl, Winfried F.
AU  - Piconese, Silvia
AU  - Pinti, Marcello
AU  - Pockley, A. Graham
AU  - Podolska, Malgorzata Justyna
AU  - Poon, Zhiyong
AU  - Pracht, Katharina
AU  - Prinz, Immo
AU  - Pucillo, Carlo E. M.
AU  - Quataert, Sally A.
AU  - Quatrini, Linda
AU  - Quinn, Kylie M.
AU  - Radbruch, Helena
AU  - Radstake, Tim R. D. J.
AU  - Rahmig, Susann
AU  - Rahn, Hans-Peter
AU  - Rajwa, Bartek
AU  - Ravichandran, Gevitha
AU  - Raz, Yotam
AU  - Rebhahn, Jonathan A.
AU  - Recktenwald, Diether
AU  - Reimer, Dorothea
AU  - Reis e Sousa, Caetano
AU  - Remmerswaal, Ester B.M.
AU  - Richter, Lisa
AU  - Rico, Laura G.
AU  - Riddell, Andy
AU  - Rieger, Aja M.
AU  - Robinson, J. Paul
AU  - Romagnani, Chiara
AU  - Rubartelli, Anna
AU  - Ruland, Jürgen
AU  - Saalmüller, Armin
AU  - Saeys, Yvan
AU  - Saito, Takashi
AU  - Sakaguchi, Shimon
AU  - Sala-de-Oyanguren, Francisco
AU  - Samstag, Yvonne
AU  - Sanderson, Sharon
AU  - Sandrock, Inga
AU  - Santoni, Angela
AU  - Sanz, Ramon Bellmàs
AU  - Saresella, Marina
AU  - Sautes-Fridman, Catherine
AU  - Sawitzki, Birgit
AU  - Schadt, Linda
AU  - Scheffold, Alexander
AU  - Scherer, Hans U.
AU  - Schiemann, Matthias
AU  - Schildberg, Frank A.
AU  - Schimisky, Esther
AU  - Schlitzer, Andreas
AU  - Schlosser, Josephine
AU  - Schmid, Stephan
AU  - Schmitt, Steffen
AU  - Schober, Kilian
AU  - Schraivogel, Daniel
AU  - Schuh, Wolfgang
AU  - Schüler, Thomas
AU  - Schulte, Reiner
AU  - Schulz, Axel Ronald
AU  - Schulz, Sebastian R.
AU  - Scottá, Cristiano
AU  - Scott-Algara, Daniel
AU  - Sester, David P.
AU  - Shankey, T. Vincent
AU  - Silva-Santos, Bruno
AU  - Simon, Anna Katharina
AU  - Sitnik, Katarzyna M.
AU  - Sozzani, Silvano
AU  - Speiser, Daniel E.
AU  - Spidlen, Josef
AU  - Stahlberg, Anders
AU  - Stall, Alan M.
AU  - Stanley, Natalie
AU  - Stark, Regina
AU  - Stehle, Christina
AU  - Steinmetz, Tobit
AU  - Stockinger, Hannes
AU  - Takahama, Yousuke
AU  - Takeda, Kiyoshi
AU  - Tan, Leonard
AU  - Tárnok, Attila
AU  - Tiegs, Gisa
AU  - Toldi, Gergely
AU  - Tornack, Julia
AU  - Traggiai, Elisabetta
AU  - Trebak, Mohamed
AU  - Tree, Timothy I.M.
AU  - Trotter, Joe
AU  - Trowsdale, John
AU  - Tsoumakidou, Maria
AU  - Ulrich, Henning
AU  - Urbanczyk, Sophia
AU  - van de Veen, Willem
AU  - van den Broek, Maries
AU  - van der Pol, Edwin
AU  - Van Gassen, Sofie
AU  - Van Isterdael, Gert
AU  - van Lier, René A.W.
AU  - Veldhoen, Marc
AU  - Vento-Asturias, Salvador
AU  - Vieira, Paulo
AU  - Voehringer, David
AU  - Volk, Hans-Dieter
AU  - von Borstel, Anouk
AU  - von Volkmann, Konrad
AU  - Waisman, Ari
AU  - Walker, Rachael V.
AU  - Wallace, Paul K.
AU  - Wang, Sa A.
AU  - Wang, Xin M.
AU  - Ward, Michael D.
AU  - Ward-Hartstonge, Kirsten A
AU  - Warnatz, Klaus
AU  - Warnes, Gary
AU  - Warth, Sarah
AU  - Waskow, Claudia
AU  - Watson, James V.
AU  - Watzl, Carsten
AU  - Wegener, Leonie
AU  - Weisenburger, Thomas
AU  - Wiedemann, Annika
AU  - Wienands, Jürgen
AU  - Wilharm, Anneke
AU  - Wilkinson, Robert John
AU  - Willimsky, Gerald
AU  - Wing, James B.
AU  - Winkelmann, Rieke
AU  - Winkler, Thomas H.
AU  - Wirz, Oliver F.
AU  - Wong, Alicia
AU  - Wurst, Peter
AU  - Yang, Jennie H. M.
AU  - Yang, Juhao
AU  - Yazdanbakhsh, Maria
AU  - Yu, Liping
AU  - Yue, Alice
AU  - Zhang, Hanlin
AU  - Zhao, Yi
AU  - Ziegler, Susanne Maria
AU  - Zielinski, Christina
AU  - Zimmermann, Jakob
AU  - Zychlinsky, Arturo
TI  - Guidelines for the use of flow cytometry and cell sorting in immunological studies (second edition)
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780470659984
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201970107
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201970107
SP  - 1457
EP  - 1973
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract These guidelines are a consensus work of a considerable number of members of the immunology and flow cytometry community. They provide the theory and key practical aspects of flow cytometry enabling immunologists to avoid the common errors that often undermine immunological data. Notably, there are comprehensive sections of all major immune cell types with helpful Tables detailing phenotypes in murine and human cells. The latest flow cytometry techniques and applications are also described, featuring examples of the data that can be generated and, importantly, how the data can be analysed. Furthermore, there are sections detailing tips, tricks and pitfalls to avoid, all written and peer-reviewed by leading experts in the field, making this an essential research companion.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Qureshi, Ammar T.
AU  - Terrell, Lekeith
AU  - Monroe, W. Todd
AU  - Dasa, Vinod
AU  - Janes, Marlene E.
AU  - Gimble, Jeffrey M.
AU  - Hayes, Daniel J.
TI  - Antimicrobial biocompatible bioscaffolds for orthopaedic implants
JO  - Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine
JA  - J Tissue Eng Regen Med
VL  - 8
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470659984
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/term.1532
DO  - doi:10.1002/term.1532
SP  - 386
EP  - 395
KW  - antimicrobial
KW  - scaffolds
KW  - human adipose stem cells
KW  - PLLA–PEG
KW  - non-cytotoxic and tissue engineering
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Nationally, nearly 1.5 million patients in the USA suffer from ailments requiring bone grafts and hip and other joint replacements. Infections following internal fixation in orthopaedic trauma can cause osteomyelitis in 22?66% of cases and, if uncontrolled, the mortality rate can be as high as 2%. We characterize a procedure for the synthesis of antimicrobial and biocompatible poly-l-lactic acid (PLLA) and poly-ethyleneglycol (PEG) bioscaffolds designed to degrade and absorb at a controlled rate. The bioscaffold architecture aims to provide a suitable substrate for the controlled release of silver nanoparticles (SNPs) to reduce bacterial growth and to aid the proliferation of human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs) for tissue-engineering applications. The fabricated bioscaffolds were characterized by scanning transmission microscope (SEM) and it showed that the addition of tncreasing concentrations of SNPs results in the formation of dendritic porous channels perpendicular to the axis of precipitation. The antimicrobial properties of these porous bioscaffolds were tested according to a modified ISO 22196 standard across varying concentrations of biomass-mediated SNPs to determine an efficacious antimicrobial concentration. The bioscaffolds reduced the Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli viable colony-forming units by 98.85% and 99.9%, respectively, at an antimicrobial SNPs concentration of 2000?ppm. Human ASCs were seeded on bioscaffolds and cultured in vitro for 20?days to study the effect of SNPs concentration on the viability of cells. SEM analysis and the metabolic activity-based fluorescent dye, AlamarBlue?, demonstrated the growth of cells on the efficacious antimicrobial bioscaffolds. The biocompatibility of in vitro leached silver, quantified by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), proved non-cytotoxic when tested against hASCs, as evaluated by MTT assay. Copyright ? 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fahy, Niamh
AU  - Alini, Mauro
AU  - Stoddart, Martin J.
TI  - Mechanical stimulation of mesenchymal stem cells: Implications for cartilage tissue engineering
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 36
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470659984
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.23670
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.23670
SP  - 52
EP  - 63
KW  - articular cartilage
KW  - biomechanics
KW  - mesenchymal stem cells
KW  - chondrogenesis
PY  - 2018
AB  - ABSTRACT Articular cartilage is a load-bearing tissue playing a crucial mechanical role in diarthrodial joints, facilitating joint articulation, and minimizing wear. The significance of biomechanical stimuli in the development of cartilage and maintenance of chondrocyte phenotype in adult tissues has been well documented. Furthermore, dysregulated loading is associated with cartilage pathology highlighting the importance of mechanical cues in cartilage homeostasis. The repair of damaged articular cartilage resulting from trauma or degenerative joint disease poses a major challenge due to a low intrinsic capacity of cartilage for self-renewal, attributable to its avascular nature. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are considered a promising cell type for cartilage replacement strategies due to their chondrogenic differentiation potential. Chondrogenesis of MSCs is influenced not only by biological factors but also by the environment itself, and various efforts to date have focused on harnessing biomechanics to enhance chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs. Furthermore, recapitulating mechanical cues associated with cartilage development and homeostasis in vivo, may facilitate the development of a cellular phenotype resembling native articular cartilage. The goal of this review is to summarize current literature examining the effect of mechanical cues on cartilage homeostasis, disease, and MSC chondrogenesis. The role of biological factors produced by MSCs in response to mechanical loading will also be examined. An in-depth understanding of the impact of mechanical stimulation on the chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs in terms of endogenous bioactive factor production and signaling pathways involved, may identify therapeutic targets and facilitate the development of more robust strategies for cartilage replacement using MSCs. ? 2017 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 36:52?63, 2018.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 971-1053
TI  - Other Bacterial Diseases
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119421481.ch23
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119421481.ch23
SP  - 971-1053
KW  - avian intestinal spirochetosis
KW  - bacterial diseases
KW  -                Erysipelas
KW  - poultry production
KW  -                Staphylococcus
KW  -                Streptococcus
KW  - tuberculosis
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary This chapter includes a collection of miscellaneous organisms that have caused disease in poultry or are a public health concern. The less common pathogens implicated in poultry loss included are Staphylococcosis, Streptococcus and Enterococcus, Erysipelas, avian intestinal spirochetosis, tuberculosis. Disease syndromes included in the chapter include beak necrosis, venereal disease of geese, and liver granulomas, but are not identified to a specific organism responsible because of the multifactorial nature of the disease. Staphylococcosis is diagnosed by culturing suspected clinical material including exudate from joints, yolk material, and stab swabs of internal organs. Staphylococcosis can resemble infection with Escherichia coli, Pasteurella multocida, Salmonella gallinarum, Mycoplasma synoviae, reoviruses, or any other infection of bones or joints that is hatchery-related, associated with mechanical trauma, or causes septicemia. Prevention and control of Enterococcus infections require reducing stress and preventing immunosuppressive diseases and conditions. Proper cleaning and disinfection can reduce environmental enterococcal resident flora to minimize external exposure.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tian, Dai-Shi
AU  - Liu, Jun-Li
AU  - Xie, Min-Jie
AU  - Zhan, Yan
AU  - Qu, Wen-Sheng
AU  - Yu, Zhi-Yuan
AU  - Tang, Zhou-Ping
AU  - Pan, Deng-Ji
AU  - Wang, Wei
TI  - Tamoxifen attenuates inflammatory-mediated damage and improves functional outcome after spinal cord injury in rats
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
VL  - 109
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-4159.2009.06077.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1471-4159.2009.06077.x
SP  - 1658
EP  - 1667
KW  - inflammation
KW  - myelin loss
KW  - neuronal apoptosis
KW  - spinal cord injury
KW  - tamoxifen
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Tamoxifen has been found to be neuroprotective in both transient and permanent experimental ischemic stroke. However, it remains unknown whether this agent shows a similar beneficial effect after spinal cord injury (SCI), and what are its underlying mechanisms. In this study, we investigated the efficacy of tamoxifen treatment in attenuating SCI-induced pathology. Blood?spinal cord barrier (BSCB) permeability, tissue edema formation, microglial activation, neuronal cell death and myelin loss were determined in rats subjected to spinal cord contusion. The results showed that tamoxifen, administered at 30?min post-injury, significantly decreased interleukin-1? (IL-1?) production induced by microglial activation, alleviated the amount of Evans blue leakage and edema formation. In addition, tamoxifen treatment clearly reduced the number of apoptotic neurons post-SCI. The myelin loss and the increase in production of myelin-associated axonal growth inhibitors were also found to be significantly attenuated at day 3 post-injury. Furthermore, rats treated with tamoxifen scored much higher on the locomotor rating scale after SCI than did vehicle-treated rats, suggesting improved functional outcome after SCI. Together, these results demonstrate that tamoxifen provides neuroprotective effects for treatment of SCI-related pathology and disability, and is therefore a potential neuroprotectant for human spinal cord injury therapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dujardin, Simon
AU  - Colin, Morvane
AU  - Buée, Luc
TI  - Invited review: Animal models of tauopathies and their implications for research/translation into the clinic
JO  - Neuropathology and Applied Neurobiology
JA  - Neuropathol Appl Neurobiol
VL  - 41
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nan.12200
DO  - doi:10.1111/nan.12200
SP  - 59
EP  - 80
KW  - aggregation
KW  - Alzheimer's disease
KW  - phosphorylation
KW  - propagation
KW  - tau protein
KW  - therapeutic approaches
PY  - 2015
AB  - Our aims are to review animal models of tauopathies, which include a number of brain disorders with various aetiologies, including ageing, genetics, infectious diseases, toxins, trauma and other unknown factors. Tauopathies are characterized by the accumulation of filaments of the microtubule-associated tau protein. The different aetiopathogeneses and distinct molecular events involved in tau aggregation have led to the development of various animal models for these diseases. In this review, rather than listing all current models, we focus on specific animal models addressing, among others, the question of tau hyperphosphorylation, tau aggregation and tau spreading. Physiological conditions, including normal ageing and hibernation, may exhibit tau phosphorylation and some aspects of tauopathies. However, most of the models of tauopathies involve genetically modified animals (mostly rodents, but also fruit fly, zebrafish and worm). Some of these models have been crucial for the development of therapeutic approaches in humans. The present review shows the difficulty in pinpointing a specific mechanism that may be targeted in tauopathies but also opens up new avenues for innovative therapeutic strategies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sagot, Y
AU  - Toni, N
AU  - Perrelet, D
AU  - Lurot, S
AU  - King, B
AU  - Rixner, H
AU  - Mattenberger, L
AU  - Waldmeier, P C
AU  - Kato, A C
TI  - An orally active anti-apoptotic molecule (CGP 3466B) preserves mitochondria and enhances survival in an animal model of motoneuron disease
JO  - British Journal of Pharmacology
VL  - 131
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.bjp.0703633
DO  - doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0703633
SP  - 721
EP  - 728
KW  - Apoptosis
KW  - motoneuron disease
KW  - pmn mice
KW  - non-peptidic molecule
KW  - mitochondria
KW  - CGP 3466B
KW  - GAPDH
PY  - 2000
AB  - Apoptosis and mitochondrial dysfunction are thought to be involved in the aetiology of neurodegenerative diseases. We have tested an orally active anti-apoptotic molecule (CGP 3466B) that binds to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in an animal model with motoneuron degeneration, i.e. a mouse mutant with progressive motor neuronopathy (pmn). In pmn/pmn mice, CGP 3466B was administered orally (10?100?nmol?kg?1) at the onset of the clinical symptoms (2 weeks after birth). CGP 3466B slowed disease progression as determined by a 57% increase in life-span, preservation of body weight and motor performance. This improvement was accompanied by a decreased loss of motoneurons and motoneuron fibres as well as an increase in retrograde transport. Electron microscopic analysis showed that CGP 3466B protects mitochondria which appear to be selectively disrupted in the motoneurons of pmn/pmn mice. The data support evaluation of CGP 3466B as a potential treatment for motor neuron disease. British Journal of Pharmacology (2000) 131, 721?728; doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0703633
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vargas, Roberto
AU  - Lang, Charles H.
TI  - Alcohol Accelerates Loss of Muscle and Impairs Recovery of Muscle Mass Resulting From Disuse Atrophy
JO  - Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research
VL  - 32
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1530-0277.2007.00548.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1530-0277.2007.00548.x
SP  - 128
EP  - 137
KW  - Alcohol
KW  - Muscle Atrophy
KW  - Cachexia
PY  - 2008
AB  - Background:? Muscle disuse atrophy is observed in patients recovering from trauma and there is an increased risk and severity of injury in patients abusing alcohol (EtOH). However, the interaction of EtOH and disuse on muscle protein balance has not been examined. Therefore, the present study addressed the hypothesis that EtOH accelerates the disuse atrophy and/or impairs the accretion of muscle protein during muscle recovery. Methods:? To address this aim, disuse atrophy was induced in rats by 3?days of unilateral hindlimb immobilization (casting), using the contralateral leg as control, with EtOH or saline being orally gavaged twice, each day during this period. In a separate study, EtOH-treated rats received Velcade to inhibit proteasomal degradation. Finally, in the last study, rats had 1 limb casted for 5?days, the cast removed, and EtOH or saline gavaged twice daily during a 5-day recovery period. Muscle protein metabolism was assessed using surrogate markers of protein synthesis [i.e., phosphorylation of 4E-binding protein 1 (BP1) and S6 kinase 1 (S6K1)] and protein degradation (i.e., mRNA content of the ubiquitin E3 ligases atrogin-1 and MuRF1). Results:? Ethanol alone did not decrease muscle weight in the uncasted muscle. However, the loss of mass of immobilized muscle from EtOH-gavaged rats was 80% greater than in the animals not receiving EtOH. This atrophic response was not associated with a change in Akt, 4E-BP1 or S6K1 phosphorylation among groups. In contrast, immobilization alone increased both atrogin-1 and MuRF1 mRNA, and EtOH further increased their expression in immobilized muscle. The proteasome inhibitor Velcade attenuated atrophy produced by EtOH?+?disuse. When administered during the recovery period, EtOH prevented the normal accretion of muscle mass. This EtOH effect was associated with increased atrogin-1 mRNA, a reduction in 4E-BP1 and S6 phosphorylation, and an increased AMP-activated kinase phosphorylation. Conclusions:? Based on the changes in these surrogate markers, our data suggest that EtOH accelerates disuse atrophy by stimulating ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, and blunts repletion of muscle protein during recovery from disuse by increasing proteolysis and decreasing protein synthesis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sugihara, Izumi
AU  - Lohof, Ann M.
AU  - Letellier, Mathieu
AU  - Mariani, Jean
AU  - Sherrard, Rachel M.
TI  - Post-lesion transcommissural growth of olivary climbing fibres creates functional synaptic microzones
JO  - European Journal of Neuroscience
VL  - 18
IS  - 11
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1460-9568.2003.03045.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1460-9568.2003.03045.x
SP  - 3027
EP  - 3036
KW  - climbing fibres
KW  - inferior olivary complex
KW  - plasticity
KW  - Purkinje cell
KW  - reinnervation
PY  - 2003
AB  - Abstract In the adult mammalian central nervous system, reinnervation and recovery from trauma is limited. During development, however, postlesion plasticity may generate alternate paths, providing models to investigate reinnervating axon?target interactions. After unilateral transection of the neonatal rat olivocerebellar path, axons from the ipsilateral inferior olive grow into the denervated hemicerebellum and develop climbing fibre (CF)-like arbors on Purkinje cells (PCs). However, the synaptic function and extent of PC reinnervation remain unknown. In adult rats pedunculotomized on postnatal day?3 the morphological and electrophysiological properties of reinnervating olivocerebellar axons were studied, using axonal reconstruction and patch-clamp PC recording of CF-induced synaptic currents. Reinnervated PCs displayed normal CF currents, and the frequency of PC reinnervation decreased with increasing laterality. Reinnervating CF arbors were predominantly normal but 6% branched within the molecular layer forming smaller secondary arbors. CFs arose from transcommissural olivary axons, which branched extensively near their target PCs to produce on average 36?CFs, which is six times more than normal. Axons terminating in the hemisphere developed more CFs than those terminating in the vermis. However, the precise parasagittal microzone organization was preserved. Transcommissural axons also branched, although to a lesser extent, to the deep cerebellar nuclei and terminated in a distribution indicative of the olivo-cortico-nuclear circuit. These results show that reinnervating olivocerebellar axons are highly plastic in the cerebellum, compensating anatomically and functionally for early postnatal denervation, and that this reparation obeys precise topographic constraints although axonal plasticity is modified by target (PC or deep nuclear neurons) interactions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Odabas, S.
AU  - Feichtinger, G. A.
AU  - Korkusuz, P.
AU  - Inci, I.
AU  - Bilgic, E.
AU  - Yar, A. S.
AU  - Cavusoglu, T.
AU  - Menevse, S.
AU  - Vargel, I.
AU  - Piskin, E.
TI  - Auricular cartilage repair using cryogel scaffolds loaded with BMP-7-expressing primary chondrocytes
JO  - Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine
JA  - J Tissue Eng Regen Med
VL  - 7
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/term.1634
DO  - doi:10.1002/term.1634
SP  - 831
EP  - 840
KW  - auricular cartilage
KW  - primary chondrocytes
KW  - plasmid DNA
KW  - non-viral
KW  - ex vivo transfection
KW  - bone morphogenetic proteins
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract The loss of cartilage tissue due to trauma, tumour surgery or congenital defects, such as microtia and anotia, is one of the major concerns in head and neck surgery. Recently tissue-engineering approaches, including gene delivery, have been proposed for the regeneration of cartilage tissue. In this study, primary chondrocytes were genetically modified with plasmid-encoding bone morphogenetic protein-7 (BMP-7) via the commercially available non-viral Turbofect vector, with the aim of bringing ex vivo transfected chondrocytes to resynthesize BMP-7 in vitro as they would in vivo. Genetically modified cells were implanted into gelatin?oxidized dextran scaffolds and cartilage tissue formation was investigated in 15???15?mm auricular cartilage defects in vivo in 48 New Zealand (NZ) white rabbits for 4?months. The results were evaluated via histology and early gene expression. Early gene expression results indicated a strong effect of exogenous BMP-7 on matrix synthesis and chondrocyte growth. In addition, histological analysis results exhibited significantly better cartilage healing with BMP-7-modified (transfected) cells than in the non-modified (non-transfected) group and as well as the control. Copyright ? 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schneider, Nanette Y.
AU  - Datiche, Frédérique
AU  - Coureaud, Gérard
TI  - Brain anatomy of the 4-day-old European rabbit
JO  - Journal of Anatomy
JA  - J. Anat.
VL  - 232
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/joa.12789
DO  - doi:10.1111/joa.12789
SP  - 747
EP  - 767
KW  - brain anatomy
KW  - European rabbit
KW  - limbic regions
KW  - memory
KW  - newborn
KW  - olfactory system
KW  - social and feeding behaviour
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract The European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) is a widely used model in fundamental, medical and veterinary neurosciences. Besides investigations in adults, rabbit pups are relevant to study perinatal neurodevelopment and early behaviour. To date, the rabbit is also the only species in which a pheromone ? the mammary pheromone (MP) ? emitted by lactating females and active on neonatal adaptation has been described. The MP is crucial since it contributes directly to nipple localisation and oral seizing in neonates, i.e. to their sucking success. It may also be one of the non-photic cues arising from the mother, which stimulates synchronisation of the circadian system during pre-visual developmental stages. Finally, the MP promotes neonatal odour associative and appetitive conditioning in a remarkably rapid and efficient way. For these different reasons, the rabbit offers a currently unique opportunity to determine pheromonal-induced brain processing supporting adaptation early in life. Therefore, it is of interest to create a reference work of the newborn rabbit pup brain, which may constitute a tool for future multi-disciplinary and multi-approach research in this model, and allow comparisons related to the neuroethological basis of social and feeding behaviour among newborns of various species. Here, in line with existing experimental studies, and based on original observations, we propose a functional anatomical description of brain sections in 4-day-old rabbits with a particular focus on seven brain regions which appear important for neonatal perception of sensory signals emitted by the mother, circadian adaptation to the short and single daily nursing of the mother in the nest, and expression of specific motor actions involved in nipple localisation and milk intake. These brain regions involve olfactory circuits, limbic-related areas important in reward, motivation, learning and memory formation, homeostatic areas engaged in food anticipation, and regions implicated in circadian rhythm and arousal, as well as in motricity.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - I Marí, J. M. Puig
AU  - Martinez-Miralles, E.
AU  - Perich, X.
TI  - Neurology (60)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-60.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-60.x
SP  - 105
EP  - 106
PY  - 2001
AB  - Reflex sympathetic dystropy syndrome of the lower limbs in a renal transplant patient treated with tacrolimus. (Hospital de Mar, Barcelona, Spain) Transplantation 2000;70:210?211. This study describes the treatment of a 49-year-old woman who received a kidney transplant from a cadaver donor and was treated with tacrolimus. Three months later, the patient complained of severe pain in her lower limbs that affected both knees and ankles. Bone scintigraphy and magnetic resonance were consistent with reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome. Laboratory tests that included creatinine, glomerular filtration rate, calcium, phosphate, urate, alkaline phosphatase, and parathormone were normal or near normal. Tacrolimus levels were around 13 ?g/mL. Clinical improvement appeared slowly and spontaneously during the following 3 months, without appreciable changes in the tacrolimus level. Conclude that in kidney transplant patients, tacrolimus could be a risk factor for the development of a reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pierce, Melinda
AU  - Scottoline, Brian
TI  - Neonatal McCune–Albright syndrome with survival beyond two years
JO  - American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A
JA  - Am. J. Med. Genet.
VL  - 170
IS  - 11
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.a.37841
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajmg.a.37841
SP  - 3008
EP  - 3012
KW  - McCune–Albright syndrome
KW  - Cushing syndrome
KW  - intrauterine growth restriction
PY  - 2016
AB  - McCune?Albright syndrome (MAS) is a rare disease resulting from a somatic, mosaic mutation of GNAS1 encoding the Gsα subunit of the G-protein coupled membrane receptor responsible for multiple hormonal signaling cascades. We present a patient with neonatal MAS who initially presented with neonatal diabetes and concern for congenital cardiac disease, and subsequently was found to have significant ACTH-independent neonatal Cushing syndrome. Her course included multi-system organ involvement, although she initially did not have obvious findings consistent with the MAS classic triad of café-au-lait macules, fibrous dysplasia, or peripheral precocious puberty. After medical and surgical treatment, she remains the only reported survivor of neonatal MAS. This clinical report alerts clinicians to the possibility of this disease in neonates with non-classical endocrine and non-endocrine manifestations of MAS, and demonstrates that this very early presentation is potentially survivable. ? 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Khan, Ferdous
AU  - Smith, James O.
AU  - Kanczler, Janos M.
AU  - Tare, Rahul. S.
AU  - Oreffo, Richard O.C.
AU  - Bradley, Mark
TI  - Discovery and Evaluation of a Functional Ternary Polymer Blend for Bone Repair: Translation from a Microarray to a Clinical Model
JO  - Advanced Functional Materials
JA  - Adv. Funct. Mater.
VL  - 23
IS  - 22
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201202710
DO  - doi:10.1002/adfm.201202710
SP  - 2850
EP  - 2862
KW  - biomaterials
KW  - skeletal tissue
KW  - scaffold
KW  - skeletal stem cells
KW  - tissue engineering
KW  - polymer blends
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Skeletal tissue regeneration is often required following trauma, where substantial bone or cartilage loss may be encountered and is a significant driver for the development of biomaterials with a defined 3D structural network. Solvent blending is a process that avoids complications associated with conventional thermal or mechanical polymer blending or synthesis, opening up large areas of chemical and physical space, while potentially simplifying regulatory pathways towards in vivo application. Here ternary mixtures of natural and synthetic polymers were solvent blended and evaluated as potential bone tissue engineering matrices for osteoregeneration by the assessment of growth and differentiation of STRO-1+ skeletal stem cells. Several of the blend materials were found to be excellent supports for human bone marrow-derived STRO-1+ skeletal cells and fetal skeletal cells, with the optimized blend exhibiting in vivo osteogenic potential, suggesting that these polymer blends could act as suitable matrices for bioengineering of hard tissues.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tjärnström, Johan
AU  - Holmdahl, Lena
AU  - Arnell, Per
AU  - Falkenberg, Mårten
AU  - Risberg, Bo
TI  - Treatment with hyperbaric oxygen affects endothelial cell fibrinolysis
JO  - European Journal of Surgery
JA  - Eur J Surg
VL  - 165
IS  - 9
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1080/11024159950189302
DO  - doi:10.1080/11024159950189302
SP  - 834
EP  - 838
PY  - 1999
AB  - Abstract Objective: To investigate the effect of hyperbaric oxygen treatment (HBO) on the thrombolytic properties of endothelial cells. Setting: University hospital, Sweden. Interventions: Human endothelial cells were derived from saphenous veins, and exposed to oxygen in a compression chamber at 2.5 atmospheres absolute (ATA, =250kPa). Cells exposed to 2.5 ATA with a gas mixture similar to air (HB Air), and unpressurised air-exposed cells served as controls. Main outcome measures: Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1). Results: Immediately after treatment there was a significant increase in t-PA protein in the medium in cultures treated with HBO compared with HB Air (p = 0.015, n = 6), and untreated controls (p = 0.015, n = 6). The PAI-1 concentration in media was also higher in the HBO-treated group compared with HB Air (p = 0.004, n = 6) and untreated controls (p = 0.004, n = 6). Six hours after treatment there was still a significant increase in PAI-1 in the HBO-treated group compared with untreated controls (p = 0.007, n = 6), but not with the pressure control. t-PA concentrations were similar. Specific mRNA for t-PA and PAI-1 was detectable immediately after treatment and six hours later in all experimental groups as assessed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). HBO increased the gene expression for both t-PA and PAI-1. Conclusions: HBO affects endothelial cell function and its fibrinolytic response. These findings may have clinical relevance in hyperbaric medicine and trauma care. Copyright ? 1999 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lowenthal, R. M.
AU  - Marsden, K. A.
AU  - Dewar, C. L.
AU  - Thompson, G. R.
TI  - Congenital Dyserythropoietic Anaemia (CDA) with Severe Gout, Rare Kell Phenotype and Erythrocyte, Granulocyte and Platelet Membrane Reduplication: a New Variant of CDA Type II
JO  - British Journal of Haematology
VL  - 44
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2141.1980.tb01203.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2141.1980.tb01203.x
SP  - 211
EP  - 220
PY  - 1980
AB  - Summary. A 43-year-old man with lifelong anaemia showed features which indicate him to have a previously undescribed variant of congenital dyserythropoietic anaemia (CDA), type II. The main clinical features?of which the first two are unique or very unusual in CDA?have been severe tophaceous gout, massive splenomegaly, gall stones necessitating cholecystectomy and haemosiderosis affecting the liver and probably the heart. At age 41 he sustained a spontaneous retinal detachment. In the peripheral blood there were large numbers of nucleated red blood cells and marked macrocytosis; otherwise the picture was typical of CDA type II. The bone marrow contained many bi- and multi-nucleated erythrocyte precursors. There were increased levels of a number of red cell enzymes and a slightly raised level of HbF. Uncharacteristically, the red cells failed to lyse with acidified normal serum. The cells were strongly agglutinated by anti-i and were of the rare Kpb-negative phenotype. Plasma lipid analysis showed very low levels of cholesterol and vitamin E. Lipid peroxidation was markedly increased. Ultrastructural studies showed reduplication of the erythrocyte, granulocyte, and platelet cell membranes.
ER  - 
