
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sugahara, S.
AU  - Kanno, Y.
AU  - Moriwaki, K.
AU  - Ikeda, N.
AU  - Takane, H.
AU  - Kotaki, S.
AU  - Aoki, H.
AU  - Ooshima, J.
AU  - Suzuki, H.
TI  - Multiple factors affect 3-year survival of patients on chronic hemodialysis
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121bl.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121bl.x
SP  - 93
EP  - 93
PY  - 2005
AB  - Objective:? The aim of this study is to determine the factors contributing to survival of patients on hemodialysis. Methods: Data were collected from 8 dialysis centers, and 432 patients were recruited. Among them, patients who underwent hemodialysis thrice a week for more than 3 years and received antihypertensive therapy or had systolic blood pressure of more than 160?mm Hg before dialysis secession were selected. Subsequent survival status and cause of death were ascertained for the next 3.5 years. The logistic multivariate regression analysis was used to estimate the relative risk of death. Variables used for the purpose of this analysis were patient gender, age, underlying renal disease (unknown and others (0), CGN (1), DM (2)), medication, serum albumin, history of having cerebrovascular and/or cardiovascular accidents (yes or no), the levels of serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, pre- and post-dialysis blood pressure (systolic and diastolic), hemoglobin, serum calcium and inorganic phosphate, ?2-microglobulin, intact PTH, and other laboratory data. Results:?First step logistic regression analysis indicated age, underlying renal diseases, serum creatinine, GOT, ?2-microglobulin were associated with increased relative risk (RR) of dying. According to the formula calculated in this analysis, if the levels of serum creatinine increased 1?mg/dl, the ratio of dying increased by 1.210. Also, compared to the patients aged between 50 to 64 years old, the patients aged between 65 to 90 years old had 1.521 times dying ratio. Conclusions:?From this study, it is suggested that age, creatinine, underlying renal diseases, ?2-microblobulin, past history of cerebrovascular disease, serum creatinine, and GOT were important factors contributing to patients? survival.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Özdemir, F.N.
AU  - Tutal, E.
AU  - Arat, Z.
AU  - Zümrütdal, A.
AU  - Akcay, A.
AU  - Celik, H.
AU  - Sezer, S.
AU  - Haberal, M.
TI  - Chronic hepatitis C infection: Prevalance and effect on clinical status of hemodialysis patients in our center
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ap.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ap.x
SP  - 85
EP  - 85
PY  - 2005
AB  - Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection affects survival and morbidity of end-stage renal disease patients and also increases treatment costs. Aim of this study is to define prevalence of HCV infection in our hemodialysis (HD) units and documenting past interventions and clinical status of patients. 711 patients were included. Patient data were collected from 4 HD units of Baskent University. Patient records were examined for demograpic findings, anti-HCV, HCV RNA, liver biopsy, interferon treatment information, last 12 months? laboratory values (serum transaminases, albumin, lipid profiles, hemoglobin, C-reactive protein), and current clinical status, retrospectively. 143 patients (3%) were anti-HCV positive. These patients? alanine transferase levels (23.5?±?20.5 vs 15.5?±?12.8?U/L, p?<?0.0001) and HD duration (97.9?±?58.6 vs 46.3?±?35.6 months, p?<?0.0001) were significantly higher. No other significant difference could be identified between the groups. Analysis of HD duration of anti-HCV positive patients revealed that prevalance was increasing as the duration increased. Anti-HCV positivity was known for a mean of 60.4?±?38.8 months while 44 patients (30.7%) were already infected at initiation of HD. HCV RNA analysis was positive in 26.7% and a liver biopsy was performed in 23% of patients after 19.8?±?23.3 months following positive anti-HCV identification. Minimally active chronic hepatitis C was the most common pathological diagnosis (70, 3%). Only 18 patients (12.5%) recieved interferon therapy. None of the patients had chronic liver disease clinical and physical findings by the time this study was done. HCV infection is a common problem in HD patients that increases the need for medical interventions and treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - The Ninth Annual American College of Veterinary Surgeons Symposium September 30-October 3 1999, San Francisco, CA
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 28
IS  - 5
SN  - 0161-3499
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1532-950X.1999.00386.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1532-950X.1999.00386.x
SP  - 386
EP  - 409
PY  - 1999
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hoekstra, Matthias J
AU  - Westgate, Samantha J
AU  - Mueller, Stefan
TI  - Povidone-iodine ointment demonstrates in vitro efficacy against biofilm formation
JO  - International Wound Journal
JA  - Int Wound J
VL  - 14
IS  - 1
SN  - 1742-4801
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/iwj.12578
DO  - doi:10.1111/iwj.12578
SP  - 172
EP  - 179
KW  - Biofilm
KW  - Candida albicans
KW  - Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
KW  - Povidone-iodine ointment (PVP-I)
KW  - Pseudomonas aeruginosa
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Anti-infectives used to treat chronic exuding wounds are diluted by wound exudates, absorbed into dressings, metabolised by proteases and destroyed by pH. In order to mimic such effects of exudates, the efficacy of six topical wound agents was assessed undiluted and at 10% concentrations, including povidone-iodine ointment and a silver-impregnated wound dressing, to remove biofilms of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, multi-species biofilms of Candida albicans and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in vitro in a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reactor. Povidone-iodine was also diluted to 3·3% and 33·3% of the commercial concentrations. Viable microorganisms in each preparation were quantified by colony count. No viable P. aeruginosa biofilm material was recovered after 4 and 24 hours of treatment with povidone-iodine ointment at the 100% and 10% concentrations. No C. albicans/MRSA biofilm material was recovered after 4 and 24 hours of treatment with povidone-iodine ointment at the 100% concentration. In general, following dilution, povidone-iodine ointment appeared to exhibit greater biofilm removal than the other agents tested. Further research involving different microorganisms in vitro and in vivo over a longer period of time will help elucidate the full potential of povidone-iodine ointment and liposomal hydrogel.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cole, Warren H.
TI  - MEDICAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE YOUNG AND THE AGED*
JO  - Journal of the American Geriatrics Society
JA  - Journal of the American Geriatrics Society
VL  - 18
IS  - 8
SN  - 0002-8614
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1532-5415.1970.tb02804.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1532-5415.1970.tb02804.x
SP  - 589
EP  - 614
PY  - 1970
AB  - Abstract Although the medical profession is slowly realizing that many disorders in the aged must be treated differently than in the young, there is still no proper appreciation of these age differences. Too often, when a patient reaches life-expectancy age, the physician relaxes his medical attention. It is assumed that the patient will die soon, although the actuarial statistics may show that he has many more years of life. Accordingly, therapy should be more intensive in order to attain the maximal life span. Elderly people will tolerate many major operations (e.g., herniorrhaphy or thyroidectomy) as well as young people. However, when it comes to serious major operations (e.g., radical neck dissection or radical excision of the rectum for carcinoma), the mortality rate for the aged may be four to eight times higher than for young patients. Elderly patients tolerate emergency major operations and complications very poorly. The chronologic age is not the chief factor in the mortality rate; more important are the operative complications. Therefore, preoperatively, every effort should be made to identify and treat diseases that might cause complications postoperatively. After operation a close watch must be kept for complications so that they may be treated promptly and effectively. Operative technic must be meticulous, with no excessive trauma and with particular attention to hemostasis and wound closure. The operation should be completed in the shortest possible time consistent with safety. A summary of 6 reports in the medical literature shows an operative mortality rate for major operations of 2.6 per cent in patients under 60, compared to 7.2 per cent for patients over 60. The mortality rate for emergency operations is much higher than for elective operations?18.5 per cent versus 6.5 per cent, respectively. A summary of 4 reports shows that cardiac complications were the greatest single cause of postoperative mortality (21.6 per cent), with pneumonia and atelectasis a close second. Despite precautions such as bandaging the extremities and early ambulation, pulmonary embolism accounted for 9.4 per cent of the deaths. [Though inoperable carcinoma caused more deaths (22.2 per cent of the entire group) than any of the other diseases, it is classified as a multiple cause.] Since the mortality rate for major operations in both aged and young patients is still significant, there is great need for more accuracy in determining operability.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Borges, Lawrence F.
AU  - Giicer, Giindilz
TI  - Effect of Magnesium on Epileptic Foci
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 19
IS  - 1
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1157.1978.tb05015.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1157.1978.tb05015.x
SP  - 81
EP  - 91
KW  - Epilepsy
KW  - Penicillin
KW  - Magnesium sulfate
KW  - Multi-unit analysis
KW  - Single unit analysis
PY  - 1978
AB  - SUMMARY Parenteral magnesium sulfate has been used to control acute convulsions of diverse etiologies and is currently a mainstay in controlling eclamptic convulsions. However, the site of this anticonvulsant action has remained controversial and not well studied in experimental epileptic models. Therefore we determined the effects of intravenously infused magnesium sulfate on the epileptic neural activity induced by topical application of penicillin G to motor cortex in anesthetized cats and dogs and in awake, undrugged primates. Magnesium sulfate was able to directly suppress neuronal burst firing and interictal EEG spike generation at serum levels below those producing paralysis. The degree of suppression corresponded to the serum magnesium concentration and was reversible. These results corroborate the clinical observations in patients that magnesium can produce an anticonvulsant effect apart from neuromuscular blockade and suggest it may have clinical applicability in treating a wider range of acute convulsions. RÉSUMÉ Les injections parentérales de sulfate de magnésium ont de utilisées pour le traitement d'états convulsifs d'étiologies diverses et sont encore couramment utilisées pour le traitement des convulsions éclamptiques. Cependant le lieu de Taction anticonvulsivante de ce produit est encore L'objet de discussions et n'a pas de bien étudié du point de vue expérimental. Les auteurs ont done déterminé les effets d'une perfusion intra-veineuse de sulfate de magnesium sur L'activitéépileptique provoquée par L'application de pénicilline G sur le cortex moteur de chats et de chiens anesthesies et de primates eveilles. Le sulfate de magnesium s'est revele capable de supprimer directement les decharges neuroniques et les pointes intercritiques sur L'EEG pour des taux seriques inferieurs a ceux entrainant la paralysie. Le degré de suppression correspond àa la concentration sérique du magnésium et la suppression est réversible. de tels résultats corroborent les observations cliniques suivant lesquelles le magnesium petit avoir un effet antiepileptique en dehors d'un blocage neuromusculaire et ils suggàerent que ce produit pour-rait être utilisé pour le traitement d'un large éventail d'états convulsifs aigus. RESUMEN El sulfato de magnesio por via parenteral se ha usado para control de las convulsiones agudas de diversas etiologías y todavía constituye una medicación de elección en el control de las convulsiones eclampsicas. A pesar de todo, el lugar de su acción anticonvulsiva permanece bajo controversia y no se ha estudiado bien en modelos epilépticos experimen-tales. Por esta raz6n hemos determinado los efectos de la inyección endovenosa de sulfato magnésico sobre la actividad epileptica neuronal inducida mediante la aplicación táopica de penicilina G en la corteza motora de perros y gatos anestesiados y de primates despiertos y sin medicar. El sulfato magnesico suprimió los brotes de descargas neuronales y la generación de puntas en el electroencefalograma interictal con nive-les sericos inferiores a los que produce paralisis. El grado de supresi6n correspondi6 a la concentración s6rica de magnesio y fue reversible. Estos resultados corroboran las observaciones clinicas en pacientes, de los que se deduce que el magnesio puede producir un efecto anticonvulsivo ajeno al bloqueo neuromuscular y sugieren que puede tener una aplicación clinica en el tratamiento de un amplio espectro de convulsiones agudas. ZUSAMMENFASSUNG Parenterale Gaben von Magnesiumsulfat werden genutzt, akut aufgetretene Anfalle unterschiedlicher Atiologie zu kupieren. Gegenwartig ist Magnesiumsulfat eine Hauptstiitze in der Behandlung eklamp-tischer Anfalle. Die Lokalisation seiner antikonvul-siven Wirkung jedoch blieb kontrovers und nicht ausreichend an experimentellen Epilepsiemodellen untersucht. Wir haben daher die Wirkungen intravenos applizierten Magnesiumsulfats auf die epileptische Neuronenaktivitat untersucht, wobei die épilepsie hervorgerufen worden war durch lokale Gabe von Penicillin G an die motorische Rindenregion von anaesthesierten Katzen und Hunden und von wachen, nicht medikamentos vorbehandelten Primaten. Magnesiumsulfat war in der Lage, unmittelbar neuronale Paroxysmen und interictale encephalographische spikes zu unterdriicken bei Serumspiegeln, die unter dem paralysierenden Bereich lagen. Der Grad der Unterdriickung korrespondierte zu der Konzentration von Magnesiumsulfat im Serum und war reversibel. Diese Ergebnisse bestarken die klinischen Beobach-tungen an Patienten, daß Mg einen antikonvulsiven Effekt haben kann abgesehen von neuromuskularer Blockade, und sie lassen annehmen, daß es klinisch anwendbar ist für einen groBeren Teil akuter cerebraler Anfalle.
ER  - 

AU  - Kirby, Barbara
C7  - pp. 461-466
TI  - Portosystemic
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119421344.ch63
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119421344.ch63
SP  - 461-466
KW  - congenital portosystemic shunts
KW  - hepatic arteriovenous malformation
KW  - hypoalbuminemia
KW  - hypoglycemia
KW  - hypothermia
KW  - intraoperative hemorrhage
KW  - portal vein atresia
KW  - portal venous hypoplasia
KW  - status epilepticus
KW  - systemic hypotension
PY  - 1978
AB  - Summary Portal vascular anomalies (PVAs) in dogs and cats include congenital or acquired macrovascular portosystemic shunts (PSS), portal venous hypoplasia (microvascular dysplasia), hepatic arteriovenous malformation, and noncirrhotic portal hypertension with portal vein atresia. Congenital portosystemic shunts (CPSS) are the most common PVA managed surgically. Cats with CPSS are generally considered to have a higher complication rate and poorer outcome than dogs. Hypothermia is reported as an early predictor of postoperative death in toy breeds. Systemic hypotension is a common problem during anesthesia and surgery for CPSS and is often multifactorial. Hypoglycemia occurs commonly in dogs with CPSS, particularly small breeds. Intraoperative bleeding is most commonly considered a complication of surgery for IHPSS, although the specific incidence of intraoperative hemorrhage in CPSS surgery is rarely reported. Hypoalbuminemia is a common biochemical abnormality in dogs with CPSS but is rarely reported in cats with CPSS. Status epilepticus is a devastating complication of surgery for CPSS.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rahman, M.H.
AU  - McGoldrick, M.D.
AU  - Haqqie, S.S.
TI  - Acute hemolysis and renal failure associated with charcoal hemoperfusion for valproic acid intoxication
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ba.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ba.x
SP  - 89
EP  - 89
PY  - 2005
AB  - Charcoal hemoperfusion is an effective treatment in acute drug intoxication with small volume of distribution. For certain drugs, clearance rates are higher with hemoperfusion than hemodialysis. We describe a patient with severe valproic acid overdose who developed severe hemolysis and acute renal failure related to charcoal hemoperfusion treatment. A 50-year-old female was admitted to the hospital following valproic acid overdose. Initial valproic acid level was 73.6?mg/L, and she was treated with oral activated charcoal. Four hours later she developed mental status changes with valproic acid level at 490.9?mg/L and prolonged QT interval. Charcoal hemoperfusion was started with blood flow rate 400?ml/min. Patient developed bleeding with evidence of severe Before(*C.H.) After (C.H.) Hemoglobin 12.1?gm/DL 7.6?gm/DL Hematocrit 35.5?gm/DL 21.1?gm/DL Platelet count 268,000 tho/ul 43,000?tho/ul L.D.H 90?IU/L 2494?IU/L Valproic Acid 490.9?mg/L 74.1?mg/L * C.H. (Charcoal Hemoperfusion) Blood ? evidence of massive hemolysis intra-vascular hemolysis, shown in table (no evidence of HUS/TTP). She received transfusion of packed red blood cells, platelets, and fibrin. Over the next few days she developed oligouric acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis for 2 weeks. Eventually hemolysis resolved and the renal function improved (kidney biopsy was consistent with acute tubular necrosis). To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of severe intravascular hemolysis occurring during the charcoal hemoperfusion treatment. Etiology includes mechanical trauma to the red cells, probably related to high blood flow rate through the charcoal column.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Brünagel, Gisela
AU  - Shah, Uzma
AU  - Schoen, Robert E.
AU  - Getzenberg, Robert H.
TI  - Identification of calreticulin as a nuclear matrix protein associated with human colon cancer
JO  - Journal of Cellular Biochemistry
JA  - J. Cell. Biochem.
VL  - 89
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcb.10502
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcb.10502
SP  - 238
EP  - 243
KW  - nuclear structure
KW  - neoplasia
KW  - tumor marker
PY  - 2003
AB  - Abstract Colon cancer is one of the most common malignancies among populations in the United States and Western Europe, and one of the leading causes of worldwide morbidity and mortality due to cancer. The early detection of colon cancer is central to the effective treatment of this disease and early detection markers are needed. We have demonstrated that high-resolution two-dimensional gel analysis of nuclear matrix proteins (NMPs) demonstrated a specific oncological fingerprint of colon cancer. Utilizing this approach, four proteins specific for colon cancer was identified. Additionally, one protein was expressed much more strongly in colon cancer compared to adjacent and normal donor tissue. The amino acid composition of this protein revealed sequence similarity with calreticulin. The multi-functional protein, calreticulin, is normally found in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum although some reports have described a nuclear localization of the protein. The aim of this study was to confirm the identity of the protein as calreticulin as well as to evaluate the localization of calreticulin in the nuclear matrix of colon cancer tissue. J. Cell. Biochem. 89: 238?243, 2003. ? 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rocha, Gustavo
AU  - Fernandes, Paula
AU  - Rocha, Paula
AU  - Quintas, Conceição
AU  - Martins, Teresa
AU  - Proença, Elisa
TI  - Pleural effusions in the neonate
JO  - Acta Paediatrica
VL  - 95
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1651-2227.2006.tb02342.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1651-2227.2006.tb02342.x
SP  - 791
EP  - 798
KW  - Chylothorax
KW  - hydrops
KW  - newborn
KW  - pleural effusion
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Introduction: Pleural effusions are rare in the neonate and may be associated to several clinical conditions. Only a few series of pleural effusions in the fetus and newborn are described in the literature. Aim: This study was undertaken to determine more accurately the causes and prognostic significance of pleural effusions in a population of high-risk neonates. Materials and methods: A retrospective chart review of 62 neonates admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit of six medical centers in the north of Portugal, between 1997 and 2004, that presented the diagnosis of pleural effusion. Results: 33M/29F newborns; preterms 47 (76%); GA 33 (25?40) wk; BW 1830 (660?4270) g; C-section 39 (63%). Pleural effusions were congenital in 20 (32%) newborns and acquired in 42 (68%). Congenital pleural effusions occurred as fetal hydrops in 11 (18%) patients and as chylothorax in 9 (15%). In four cases of hydrops, the cause was a congenital chylothorax. Congenital chylothorax (n=13) was the most common (65%) congenital pleural effusion in this study. The incidence of congenital chylothorax was 1:8.600 deliveries and male:female ratio was 2:1. Mortality occurred in five newborns due to pulmonary hypoplasia. Traumatic (iatrogenic) were the most frequent (n=31) acquired pleural effusions. These included 8 (13%) cases of hemothorax and 8 (13%) cases of total parenteral nutrition leakage. Pleural effusions after intra-thoracic surgery were mainly (79%) chylothoraces. There were 11 (26%) non-iatrogenic acquired pleural effusions. No mortality was associated with acquired pleural effusions. Conclusions: Congenital pleural effusions usually occur as hydrops or congenital chylothorax. Traumatic (iatrogenic) are the most frequent acquired pleural effusions in a tertiary NICU. Pleural effusions after intra-thoracic surgery are mainly chylothoraces. Non-iatrogenic acquired pleural effusions are associated to several clinical conditions, and mortality is usually associated to the underlying condition.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wray, J. D.
AU  - Bestbier, M.
AU  - Miller, J.
AU  - Smith, K. C.
TI  - Aortic and iliac thrombosis associated with angiosarcoma of skeletal muscle in a dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 47
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2006.00013.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2006.00013.x
SP  - 272
EP  - 277
PY  - 2006
AB  - A seven-year-old, neutered male greyhound was presented with a history of episodic shifting hindlimb lameness and pain. Ischaemic necrosis of areas of the hindlimb digits and skin and a firm swelling within the medial right thigh musculature were found on physical examination. Investigation demonstrated thrombosis of the terminal aorta and right external iliac artery with ischaemic necrosis of muscular and dermal tissue distal to the sites of thrombosis. The dog was euthanased due to poor prognosis. Necropsy findings were of a poorly differentiated invasive sarcoma of the skeletal muscle of the proximal right hindlimb, thrombosis of the aorta and right external iliac artery and secondary renal glomerulopathy. Immunohistochemistry of the neoplastic tissue indicated angiosarcoma based on expression of CD31 and factor VIII-related antigen. Thrombosis was considered likely to be due to systemic hypercoagulability because of the presence of altered flow characteristics and endothelial damage in the vascular tumour bed. Aortoiliac thrombosis, paraparesis and hindlimb ischaemia are unusual sequelae of angiosarcoma in the dog.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Doughty, Heidi
AU  - Chowdhury, Fateha
AU  - on behalf of the National Blood Transfusion Committee Emergency Planning Working Group
TI  - Emergency preparedness, resilience and response guidance for UK hospital transfusion teams
JO  - Transfusion Medicine
JA  - Transfusion Med
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tme.12665
DO  - doi:10.1111/tme.12665
KW  - emergency planning
KW  - major incidents
KW  - transfusion
AB  - Abstract Objectives To present Emergency Preparedness, Resilience and Response (EPRR) guidance for Hospital Transfusion Teams on behalf of the National Blood Transfusion Committee emergency planning working group. Background The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 requires healthcare organisations to demonstrate that they can deal with major incidents while maintaining critical services. Recent mass casualty events and the use of transfusion-based resuscitation have highlighted the evolving role of the Hospital Transfusion Team. Methods This multi-disciplinary advice is informed by recent global and national experience, the 2018 NHS England clinical guidelines for Major Incidents, and stakeholder workshops. Guidance Transfusion staff should be familiar with local EPRR plans including casualty type and numbers. Staff should be exercised as part of wider Trust preparation, with documented roles and responsibilities. Transfusion support should be proactive and include blood issue, regulatory compliance and sample handling. Robust LIMS-compatible emergency identification systems are essential to minimise errors. Emergency stock management requires rapid assessment of existing stock and estimated demand before re-ordering. Initial demand should be based on 2 to 4 red blood cells (RBC) per patient admitted. Patients with significant haemorrhage may require further red cells and early haemostatic support. Where ?universal? components are demanded, they should be gender appropriate. Senior staff should lead the response, log and communicate key decisions, and prepare for post-incident recovery. Conclusions Transfusion teams have an important role in ensuring continuity of transfusion support. Teams should develop their EPRR plans based on local plans and national guidance. Emergency preparedness should include post-incident debriefing for ongoing staff support and future service improvement.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sprintz, Michael
AU  - Tasciotti, Ennio
AU  - Allegri, Massimo
AU  - Grattoni, Alessandro
AU  - Driver, Larry C.
AU  - Ferrari, Mauro
TI  - Nanomedicine: Ushering in a new era of pain management
JO  - European Journal of Pain Supplements
VL  - 5
IS  - S2
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eujps.2011.08.004
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.eujps.2011.08.004
SP  - 317
EP  - 322
KW  - Nanomedicine
KW  - Pain
KW  - Chronic pain
KW  - Nanoparticle
KW  - Nanochannel
KW  - Drug delivery
KW  - Nerve repair
KW  - Regeneration
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Pain, be it acute, chronic, or any permutation thereof, is a universal problem affecting greater than 1.5 billion people worldwide, with over 116 million in the US, and over 164 million people in Europe and Israel combined. The economic cost to society is staggering, estimated around $560?635 billion annually in the US alone for direct medical treatment costs and lost productivity. Additional complications may include over-prescribing of opiates and other potentially habit-forming substances with life-threatening side effects, as well as drug diversion and the social problems associated with substance abuse and addiction, such as illegal ?pill mills,? which contributed to the approximate 600% increase in opioid prescribing in the United States from 1997 to 2007, and a 300% increase in the number of deaths related to prescription opioids. However, the greatest cost of pain rests on the individual who, in addition to his or her pain, is fraught with anxiety, depression, sleep disturbances, and deteriorating interpersonal relationships, resulting in a severely diminished quality of life. While efforts are continuing to unlock the environmental and intrinsic causes and contributors to pain, there are still a great number of unmet needs throughout the realm of pain management, including imaging, drug monitoring, objective pain assessment tools, and of course, therapeutic interventions. As the technological revolution of 21st century medicine continues its ascent, nanomedicine offers unprecedented opportunities in the development of novel pain assessment, diagnostic, and therapeutic delivery mechanisms that will address many of the global unmet needs in pain management, and change the frowning face of pain to a smile of relief. Successful integration of nanomedicine into the clinical milieu requires multi- and interdisciplinary collaboration from every facet, including healthcare professionals, engineers, scientists and researchers, government and regulatory agencies as well as academia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Li,             J.
AU  - Ma, Q.
AU  - Wu, J.
AU  - Tang, Y.
AU  - Spiegel, M.
TI  - 088 The Effects of an Electric Magnetic Field Stimulation on Skin Keratinocyte Migration
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130215cj.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130215cj.x
SP  - A4
EP  - A27
PY  - 2005
AB  - For at least 30 years it has been well known that very small electric currents applied to various kinds of trauma have a beneficial therapeutic result for wounds. The most effective methods so far utilized some form of direct current, by inserting an electric lead on each side of the wound and passing a weak electric current across the wound. The drawback of this method is invasive. In this study, we evaluated the effects of a noninvasive electric magnetic field device, Field Therapy Accelerator or FTA (Advatech Corp.), on cell migration of human skin keratinocytes in an in vitro incitional wound model. Normal human epidermal keratinocytes were maintained in growth media and grow into confluent. At time 0, a cross-shaped wound gap or cell-free zone was made among confluent monolayer cells in the center of the culture dish. Cells were treated with FTA for 1 hour immediately after wounding and 1 hour every 24 hours for a total of 4 hours in 4 days. The cell cultures were examined at time 0 and every 24 hours thereafter. A Zeiss Axiovert 200 inverted microscope with a digital camera system was used to capture the images and an AxioVision 3.0 image analysis software was used to measure the gap area. Cell migration was quantified by the time and percentage of the wound gap covered by the cells that migrated in and filled the gap. The results showed that the FTA treatment significantly accelerates skin keratinocyte migration. The wound gaps completely filled 6 days after wounding, 3 days earlier than control (no treatment) group (P?<?0.001). Cell migration is a key step leading to the reepithelialization or the restoration of skin structure. This study showed the strong effects of FTA on keratinocyte migration, suggesting one of mechanisms that electric magnetic field works on wound healing.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cossarizza, Andrea
AU  - Chang, Hyun-Dong
AU  - Radbruch, Andreas
AU  - Acs, Andreas
AU  - Adam, Dieter
AU  - Adam-Klages, Sabine
AU  - Agace, William W.
AU  - Aghaeepour, Nima
AU  - Akdis, Mübeccel
AU  - Allez, Matthieu
AU  - Almeida, Larissa Nogueira
AU  - Alvisi, Giorgia
AU  - Anderson, Graham
AU  - Andrä, Immanuel
AU  - Annunziato, Francesco
AU  - Anselmo, Achille
AU  - Bacher, Petra
AU  - Baldari, Cosima T.
AU  - Bari, Sudipto
AU  - Barnaba, Vincenzo
AU  - Barros-Martins, Joana
AU  - Battistini, Luca
AU  - Bauer, Wolfgang
AU  - Baumgart, Sabine
AU  - Baumgarth, Nicole
AU  - Baumjohann, Dirk
AU  - Baying, Bianka
AU  - Bebawy, Mary
AU  - Becher, Burkhard
AU  - Beisker, Wolfgang
AU  - Benes, Vladimir
AU  - Beyaert, Rudi
AU  - Blanco, Alfonso
AU  - Boardman, Dominic A.
AU  - Bogdan, Christian
AU  - Borger, Jessica G.
AU  - Borsellino, Giovanna
AU  - Boulais, Philip E.
AU  - Bradford, Jolene A.
AU  - Brenner, Dirk
AU  - Brinkman, Ryan R.
AU  - Brooks, Anna E. S.
AU  - Busch, Dirk H.
AU  - Büscher, Martin
AU  - Bushnell, Timothy P.
AU  - Calzetti, Federica
AU  - Cameron, Garth
AU  - Cammarata, Ilenia
AU  - Cao, Xuetao
AU  - Cardell, Susanna L.
AU  - Casola, Stefano
AU  - Cassatella, Marco A.
AU  - Cavani, Andrea
AU  - Celada, Antonio
AU  - Chatenoud, Lucienne
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Pratip K.
AU  - Chow, Sue
AU  - Christakou, Eleni
AU  - Čičin-Šain, Luka
AU  - Clerici, Mario
AU  - Colombo, Federico S.
AU  - Cook, Laura
AU  - Cooke, Anne
AU  - Cooper, Andrea M.
AU  - Corbett, Alexandra J.
AU  - Cosma, Antonio
AU  - Cosmi, Lorenzo
AU  - Coulie, Pierre G.
AU  - Cumano, Ana
AU  - Cvetkovic, Ljiljana
AU  - Dang, Van Duc
AU  - Dang-Heine, Chantip
AU  - Davey, Martin S.
AU  - Davies, Derek
AU  - De Biasi, Sara
AU  - Del Zotto, Genny
AU  - Dela Cruz, Gelo Victoriano
AU  - Delacher, Michael
AU  - Della Bella, Silvia
AU  - Dellabona, Paolo
AU  - Deniz, Günnur
AU  - Dessing, Mark
AU  - Di Santo, James P.
AU  - Diefenbach, Andreas
AU  - Dieli, Francesco
AU  - Dolf, Andreas
AU  - Dörner, Thomas
AU  - Dress, Regine J.
AU  - Dudziak, Diana
AU  - Dustin, Michael
AU  - Dutertre, Charles-Antoine
AU  - Ebner, Friederike
AU  - Eckle, Sidonia B. G.
AU  - Edinger, Matthias
AU  - Eede, Pascale
AU  - Ehrhardt, Götz R.A.
AU  - Eich, Marcus
AU  - Engel, Pablo
AU  - Engelhardt, Britta
AU  - Erdei, Anna
AU  - Esser, Charlotte
AU  - Everts, Bart
AU  - Evrard, Maximilien
AU  - Falk, Christine S.
AU  - Fehniger, Todd A.
AU  - Felipo-Benavent, Mar
AU  - Ferry, Helen
AU  - Feuerer, Markus
AU  - Filby, Andrew
AU  - Filkor, Kata
AU  - Fillatreau, Simon
AU  - Follo, Marie
AU  - Förster, Irmgard
AU  - Foster, John
AU  - Foulds, Gemma A.
AU  - Frehse, Britta
AU  - Frenette, Paul S.
AU  - Frischbutter, Stefan
AU  - Fritzsche, Wolfgang
AU  - Galbraith, David W.
AU  - Gangaev, Anastasia
AU  - Garbi, Natalio
AU  - Gaudilliere, Brice
AU  - Gazzinelli, Ricardo T.
AU  - Geginat, Jens
AU  - Gerner, Wilhelm
AU  - Gherardin, Nicholas A.
AU  - Ghoreschi, Kamran
AU  - Gibellini, Lara
AU  - Ginhoux, Florent
AU  - Goda, Keisuke
AU  - Godfrey, Dale I.
AU  - Goettlinger, Christoph
AU  - González-Navajas, Jose M.
AU  - Goodyear, Carl S.
AU  - Gori, Andrea
AU  - Grogan, Jane L.
AU  - Grummitt, Daryl
AU  - Grützkau, Andreas
AU  - Haftmann, Claudia
AU  - Hahn, Jonas
AU  - Hammad, Hamida
AU  - Hämmerling, Günter
AU  - Hansmann, Leo
AU  - Hansson, Goran
AU  - Harpur, Christopher M.
AU  - Hartmann, Susanne
AU  - Hauser, Andrea
AU  - Hauser, Anja E.
AU  - Haviland, David L.
AU  - Hedley, David
AU  - Hernández, Daniela C.
AU  - Herrera, Guadalupe
AU  - Herrmann, Martin
AU  - Hess, Christoph
AU  - Höfer, Thomas
AU  - Hoffmann, Petra
AU  - Hogquist, Kristin
AU  - Holland, Tristan
AU  - Höllt, Thomas
AU  - Holmdahl, Rikard
AU  - Hombrink, Pleun
AU  - Houston, Jessica P.
AU  - Hoyer, Bimba F.
AU  - Huang, Bo
AU  - Huang, Fang-Ping
AU  - Huber, Johanna E.
AU  - Huehn, Jochen
AU  - Hundemer, Michael
AU  - Hunter, Christopher A.
AU  - Hwang, William Y. K.
AU  - Iannone, Anna
AU  - Ingelfinger, Florian
AU  - Ivison, Sabine M
AU  - Jäck, Hans-Martin
AU  - Jani, Peter K.
AU  - Jávega, Beatriz
AU  - Jonjic, Stipan
AU  - Kaiser, Toralf
AU  - Kalina, Tomas
AU  - Kamradt, Thomas
AU  - Kaufmann, Stefan H. E.
AU  - Keller, Baerbel
AU  - Ketelaars, Steven L. C.
AU  - Khalilnezhad, Ahad
AU  - Khan, Srijit
AU  - Kisielow, Jan
AU  - Klenerman, Paul
AU  - Knopf, Jasmin
AU  - Koay, Hui-Fern
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Kolls, Jay K.
AU  - Kong, Wan Ting
AU  - Kopf, Manfred
AU  - Korn, Thomas
AU  - Kriegsmann, Katharina
AU  - Kristyanto, Hendy
AU  - Kroneis, Thomas
AU  - Krueger, Andreas
AU  - Kühne, Jenny
AU  - Kukat, Christian
AU  - Kunkel, Désirée
AU  - Kunze-Schumacher, Heike
AU  - Kurosaki, Tomohiro
AU  - Kurts, Christian
AU  - Kvistborg, Pia
AU  - Kwok, Immanuel
AU  - Landry, Jonathan
AU  - Lantz, Olivier
AU  - Lanuti, Paola
AU  - LaRosa, Francesca
AU  - Lehuen, Agnès
AU  - LeibundGut-Landmann, Salomé
AU  - Leipold, Michael D.
AU  - Leung, Leslie Y.T.
AU  - Levings, Megan K.
AU  - Lino, Andreia C.
AU  - Liotta, Francesco
AU  - Litwin, Virginia
AU  - Liu, Yanling
AU  - Ljunggren, Hans-Gustaf
AU  - Lohoff, Michael
AU  - Lombardi, Giovanna
AU  - Lopez, Lilly
AU  - López-Botet, Miguel
AU  - Lovett-Racke, Amy E.
AU  - Lubberts, Erik
AU  - Luche, Herve
AU  - Ludewig, Burkhard
AU  - Lugli, Enrico
AU  - Lunemann, Sebastian
AU  - Maecker, Holden T.
AU  - Maggi, Laura
AU  - Maguire, Orla
AU  - Mair, Florian
AU  - Mair, Kerstin H.
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
AU  - Manz, Rudolf A.
AU  - Marshall, Aaron J.
AU  - Martínez-Romero, Alicia
AU  - Martrus, Glòria
AU  - Marventano, Ivana
AU  - Maslinski, Wlodzimierz
AU  - Matarese, Giuseppe
AU  - Mattioli, Anna Vittoria
AU  - Maueröder, Christian
AU  - Mazzoni, Alessio
AU  - McCluskey, James
AU  - McGrath, Mairi
AU  - McGuire, Helen M.
AU  - McInnes, Iain B.
AU  - Mei, Henrik E.
AU  - Melchers, Fritz
AU  - Melzer, Susanne
AU  - Mielenz, Dirk
AU  - Miller, Stephen D.
AU  - Mills, Kingston H.G.
AU  - Minderman, Hans
AU  - Mjösberg, Jenny
AU  - Moore, Jonni
AU  - Moran, Barry
AU  - Moretta, Lorenzo
AU  - Mosmann, Tim R.
AU  - Müller, Susann
AU  - Multhoff, Gabriele
AU  - Muñoz, Luis Enrique
AU  - Münz, Christian
AU  - Nakayama, Toshinori
AU  - Nasi, Milena
AU  - Neumann, Katrin
AU  - Ng, Lai Guan
AU  - Niedobitek, Antonia
AU  - Nourshargh, Sussan
AU  - Núñez, Gabriel
AU  - O'Connor, José-Enrique
AU  - Ochel, Aaron
AU  - Oja, Anna
AU  - Ordonez, Diana
AU  - Orfao, Alberto
AU  - Orlowski-Oliver, Eva
AU  - Ouyang, Wenjun
AU  - Oxenius, Annette
AU  - Palankar, Raghavendra
AU  - Panse, Isabel
AU  - Pattanapanyasat, Kovit
AU  - Paulsen, Malte
AU  - Pavlinic, Dinko
AU  - Penter, Livius
AU  - Peterson, Pärt
AU  - Peth, Christian
AU  - Petriz, Jordi
AU  - Piancone, Federica
AU  - Pickl, Winfried F.
AU  - Piconese, Silvia
AU  - Pinti, Marcello
AU  - Pockley, A. Graham
AU  - Podolska, Malgorzata Justyna
AU  - Poon, Zhiyong
AU  - Pracht, Katharina
AU  - Prinz, Immo
AU  - Pucillo, Carlo E. M.
AU  - Quataert, Sally A.
AU  - Quatrini, Linda
AU  - Quinn, Kylie M.
AU  - Radbruch, Helena
AU  - Radstake, Tim R. D. J.
AU  - Rahmig, Susann
AU  - Rahn, Hans-Peter
AU  - Rajwa, Bartek
AU  - Ravichandran, Gevitha
AU  - Raz, Yotam
AU  - Rebhahn, Jonathan A.
AU  - Recktenwald, Diether
AU  - Reimer, Dorothea
AU  - Reis e Sousa, Caetano
AU  - Remmerswaal, Ester B.M.
AU  - Richter, Lisa
AU  - Rico, Laura G.
AU  - Riddell, Andy
AU  - Rieger, Aja M.
AU  - Robinson, J. Paul
AU  - Romagnani, Chiara
AU  - Rubartelli, Anna
AU  - Ruland, Jürgen
AU  - Saalmüller, Armin
AU  - Saeys, Yvan
AU  - Saito, Takashi
AU  - Sakaguchi, Shimon
AU  - Sala-de-Oyanguren, Francisco
AU  - Samstag, Yvonne
AU  - Sanderson, Sharon
AU  - Sandrock, Inga
AU  - Santoni, Angela
AU  - Sanz, Ramon Bellmàs
AU  - Saresella, Marina
AU  - Sautes-Fridman, Catherine
AU  - Sawitzki, Birgit
AU  - Schadt, Linda
AU  - Scheffold, Alexander
AU  - Scherer, Hans U.
AU  - Schiemann, Matthias
AU  - Schildberg, Frank A.
AU  - Schimisky, Esther
AU  - Schlitzer, Andreas
AU  - Schlosser, Josephine
AU  - Schmid, Stephan
AU  - Schmitt, Steffen
AU  - Schober, Kilian
AU  - Schraivogel, Daniel
AU  - Schuh, Wolfgang
AU  - Schüler, Thomas
AU  - Schulte, Reiner
AU  - Schulz, Axel Ronald
AU  - Schulz, Sebastian R.
AU  - Scottá, Cristiano
AU  - Scott-Algara, Daniel
AU  - Sester, David P.
AU  - Shankey, T. Vincent
AU  - Silva-Santos, Bruno
AU  - Simon, Anna Katharina
AU  - Sitnik, Katarzyna M.
AU  - Sozzani, Silvano
AU  - Speiser, Daniel E.
AU  - Spidlen, Josef
AU  - Stahlberg, Anders
AU  - Stall, Alan M.
AU  - Stanley, Natalie
AU  - Stark, Regina
AU  - Stehle, Christina
AU  - Steinmetz, Tobit
AU  - Stockinger, Hannes
AU  - Takahama, Yousuke
AU  - Takeda, Kiyoshi
AU  - Tan, Leonard
AU  - Tárnok, Attila
AU  - Tiegs, Gisa
AU  - Toldi, Gergely
AU  - Tornack, Julia
AU  - Traggiai, Elisabetta
AU  - Trebak, Mohamed
AU  - Tree, Timothy I.M.
AU  - Trotter, Joe
AU  - Trowsdale, John
AU  - Tsoumakidou, Maria
AU  - Ulrich, Henning
AU  - Urbanczyk, Sophia
AU  - van de Veen, Willem
AU  - van den Broek, Maries
AU  - van der Pol, Edwin
AU  - Van Gassen, Sofie
AU  - Van Isterdael, Gert
AU  - van Lier, René A.W.
AU  - Veldhoen, Marc
AU  - Vento-Asturias, Salvador
AU  - Vieira, Paulo
AU  - Voehringer, David
AU  - Volk, Hans-Dieter
AU  - von Borstel, Anouk
AU  - von Volkmann, Konrad
AU  - Waisman, Ari
AU  - Walker, Rachael V.
AU  - Wallace, Paul K.
AU  - Wang, Sa A.
AU  - Wang, Xin M.
AU  - Ward, Michael D.
AU  - Ward-Hartstonge, Kirsten A
AU  - Warnatz, Klaus
AU  - Warnes, Gary
AU  - Warth, Sarah
AU  - Waskow, Claudia
AU  - Watson, James V.
AU  - Watzl, Carsten
AU  - Wegener, Leonie
AU  - Weisenburger, Thomas
AU  - Wiedemann, Annika
AU  - Wienands, Jürgen
AU  - Wilharm, Anneke
AU  - Wilkinson, Robert John
AU  - Willimsky, Gerald
AU  - Wing, James B.
AU  - Winkelmann, Rieke
AU  - Winkler, Thomas H.
AU  - Wirz, Oliver F.
AU  - Wong, Alicia
AU  - Wurst, Peter
AU  - Yang, Jennie H. M.
AU  - Yang, Juhao
AU  - Yazdanbakhsh, Maria
AU  - Yu, Liping
AU  - Yue, Alice
AU  - Zhang, Hanlin
AU  - Zhao, Yi
AU  - Ziegler, Susanne Maria
AU  - Zielinski, Christina
AU  - Zimmermann, Jakob
AU  - Zychlinsky, Arturo
TI  - Guidelines for the use of flow cytometry and cell sorting in immunological studies (second edition)
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201970107
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201970107
SP  - 1457
EP  - 1973
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract These guidelines are a consensus work of a considerable number of members of the immunology and flow cytometry community. They provide the theory and key practical aspects of flow cytometry enabling immunologists to avoid the common errors that often undermine immunological data. Notably, there are comprehensive sections of all major immune cell types with helpful Tables detailing phenotypes in murine and human cells. The latest flow cytometry techniques and applications are also described, featuring examples of the data that can be generated and, importantly, how the data can be analysed. Furthermore, there are sections detailing tips, tricks and pitfalls to avoid, all written and peer-reviewed by leading experts in the field, making this an essential research companion.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - El Sharkawy, M.M.
AU  - Shaalan, H.S.
AU  - Okasha, N.
AU  - El Gendy, M.F.
TI  - Role of bicarbonate dialysis in prevention of serious arrhythmias in high-risk cardiac patients undergoing regular hemodialysis
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121bg.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121bg.x
SP  - 91
EP  - 92
PY  - 2005
AB  - Background:? Cardiac arrhythmias are considered as one of the most important causes of mortality in patients on hemodialysis. Arrhythmias frequently occur in patients with chronic renal failure on regular hemodialysis with reported incidences varying from 30?48% of patients. These abnormalities can span from supraventricular to severe ventricular arrhythmia. There is an increased frequency of occurrence and clustering of arrhythmias around the dialysis time. Aim of the study:?To detect the difference between acetate and bicarbonate dialysis as regard to the type and frequency of arrhythmia in those patients. Study design:?This study was done on 20 male patients age 51?73, all have history of heart disease. Patients were divided into 2 equal groups using acetate in group 1 and bicarbonate in group 2. All patients were on regular hemodialysis (4 hours, thrice weekly). Careful history and clinical examination were done. Pre-dialysis investigations included serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, serum sodium, potassium, calcium and phosphorus, serum albumin, hemoglobin, and arterial blood gases. Post-dialysis serum potassium and arterial blood gases were measured. ECG and forty-eight hours ambulatory monitor (Holter monitor)(before, during, and after hemodialysis, till the end of the dialysis day and throughout the following day) were performed. Results:?Group 1 showed significantly less post-dialysis supraventricular arrhythmias than in dialysis day (210.9?±?236 and 62.3?±?14.4), respectively. Significantly less ventricular arrhythmias in post-dialysis than in dialysis day (30.7?±?50.4, and 106.2?±?128.4), respectively. While in Group 2 there were insignificant differences regarding supraventricular arrhythmias (21.9?±?28.9 and 16.6?±?36.3) and ventricular arrhythmias (22.9?+?7.8 and 29.6?+?12.8) in dialysis day than in post-dialysis day. There was significantly higher frequency of supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias in the dialysis day in acetate hemodialysis in comparison to bicarbonate hemodialysis. Conclusion:?Bicarbonate hemodialysis is less arrhythmogenic in comparison to acetate hemodialysis and has better effect on the blood pH and greater degree of base repletion. Continuous ambulatory ECG recording (Holter) is a useful tool in detecting arrhythmias in dialysis patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jones, Alison L
TI  - Recent advances in the management of late paracetamol poisoning
JO  - Emergency Medicine
VL  - 12
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1442-2026.2000.00088.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1442-2026.2000.00088.x
SP  - 14
EP  - 21
KW  - acetaminophen
KW  - fulminant hepatic failure
KW  - late poisoning
KW  - paracetamol
PY  - 2000
AB  - Abstract Management of early paracetamol poisoning is dependent on prompt administration of N-acetylcysteine to patients whose plasma concentrations of paracetamol exceed the normal-risk or high-risk treatment lines. Paracetamol poisoning presenting after 15 h since ingestion, especially as fulminant hepatic failure, requires meticulous supportive care of organ dysfunction. The putative mechanisms of action of N-acetylcysteine and its practical use are discussed. The best prognostic marker for paracetamol poisoning in ?established hepatotoxicity? is the prothrombin time. Indications for liver transplantation in paracetamol poisoning and exclusion criteria are also discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kim, Y.O.
AU  - Choi, Y.J.
AU  - Kim, J.I.
AU  - Shin, M.J.
AU  - Kim, B.S.
AU  - Song, H.C.
AU  - Yoon, S.A.
AU  - Kim, Y.S.
AU  - Kim, S.Y.
AU  - Choi, E.J.
AU  - Chang, Y.S.
AU  - Bang, B.K.
TI  - Intima-media thickness of radial artery is associated with early access failure in hemodialysis patients
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121d.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121d.x
SP  - 72
EP  - 72
PY  - 2005
AB  - Objective:? We have reported that intimal hyperplasia, which is the pathologic change of the radial artery, is associated with early failure of arteriovenous fistula (AVF) in hemodialysis (HD) patients (Am J Kidney Dis, 41:422?428, 2003). Intima-media thickness (IMT), which represents the whole thickness of arterial wall, can be easily measured by ultrasonography, unlike intima thickness. This study was performed to investigate the impact of IMT of radial artery on early failure of AVF in HD patients. Methods:?Ninety HD patients undergoing radiocephalic AVF operation were included in this study. The AVF was constructed in an end vein?to?side artery fashion at the wrist by one vascular surgeon. During the operation, 10-mm long partial arterial walls were removed with elliptical form for microscopic analysis. Specimens were stained with trichrome and examined by a pathologist blinded to the clinical data. AVF patency was prospectively followed up for 1 year after the operation. Results:?Mean age of the patients was 56?±?13 years and the number of females was 44 (48.9%). Mean IMT was 430?± 132??m (133?760??m). Of the total 90 patients, 31 patients (34.4%) had AVF failure within 1 year after the operation. Mean IMT was higher in the failed group (n?=?31) than in patent group (n?=?59)(486?±?130??m vs. 330?±?178??m, p?=?0.004). Using a threshold of 500??m of IMT, AVF patency rate was compared between these two groups using Kaplan-Meier method with log rank test. The AVF patency rate within 1 year after the operation was higher in patients with IMT?≥?500??m (n?=?26) than in patients with IMT?<?500??m (n?=?64)(p?<?0.001). The patients with IMT?≥?500??m were older and had higher incidence of diabetes mellitus, compared to the patients with IMT?<?500??m. There was no difference in sex, smoking, hypertension, total cholesterol and albumin levels between the two groups. Conclusion:?Our data suggest that increased intima-media thickness of radial artery is associated with early failure of radiocephalic arteriovenous fistula in hemodialysis patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9780470959626
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

AU  - Torres, Mercedes
AU  - Moayedi, Siamak
C7  - pp. 139-151
TI  - Dyspnea in the elderly
SN  - 9781118753347
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118753262.ch11
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118753262.ch11
SP  - 139-151
KW  - acute coronary syndrome
KW  - asthma
KW  - atrial fibrillation
KW  - beta-blockers
KW  - chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
KW  - congestive heart failure
KW  - dyspnea
KW  - elderly patient
KW  - pneumonia
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary This chapter presents a case study of 80-year-old woman who presented to the emergency department (ED) with altered mental status. It discusses the acute coronary syndrome (ACS), congestive heart failure (CHF), atrial fibrillation, pneumonia, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and pulmonary embolism. Dyspnea accompanied by diaphoresis, nausea, vomiting, or syncope describes the geriatric patient who may be presenting with ACS. Geriatric patients presenting with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarctions (STEMIs) demonstrate improved outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) versus fibrinolytic treatment. The diagnosis of CHF in elderly patients presenting with dyspnea is often delayed due to atypical symptoms and multiple comorbidities. Beta-blockers are very effective for management of CHF in elderly patients, they are contraindicated in the presence of comorbid pulmonary disease and can cause symptomatic bradycardias and atrioventricular (AV) nodal conduction disorders. Rapid and aggressive therapy must be tempered by patient and family wishes regarding end-of-life care.
ER  - 
