
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Haber, Mason G.
AU  - Toro, Paul A.
TI  - Parent-Adolescent Violence and Later Behavioral Health Problems Among Homeless and Housed Youth
JO  - American Journal of Orthopsychiatry
VL  - 79
IS  - 3
SN  - 0002-9432
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1037/a0017212
DO  - doi:10.1037/a0017212
SP  - 305
EP  - 318
KW  - adolescent homelessness
KW  - physical abuse
KW  - emotional abuse
KW  - adolescent psychopathology
KW  - adolescent substance abuse
PY  - 2009
AB  - Parent-adolescent violence (i.e., violence between parents and adolescents) is an important pathway to homelessness and predicts poor behavioral health outcomes among youth. However, few studies have examined links between parent violence and outcomes among youth who are homeless. Existing research has also tended to ignore adolescent violence toward parents, despite evidence that mutual violence is common. The current study examines prospective links of parent-adolescent violence to outcomes among youth who were homeless and demographically matched youth, through two complementary substudies: (a) an exploratory factor analysis (EFA) of items measuring parent and adolescent violence combined in the same analysis; and (b) an examination of predictive relationships between the factors identified in the EFA and behavioral health problems, including mental health and alcohol abuse problems. Predictive relationships were examined in the overall sample and by gender, ethnic, and housing status subgroups. Results of the EFA suggested that parent-adolescent violence includes intraindividual (i.e., separate parent and adolescent) physical components and a shared psychological component. Each of these components contributed uniquely to predicting later youth behavioral health. Implications for research and practice with youth who are homeless are discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Huisman, M. V.
AU  - Klok, F. A.
TI  - Diagnostic management of acute deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism
JO  - Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - J Thromb Haemost
VL  - 11
IS  - 3
SN  - 1538-7933
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jth.12124
DO  - doi:10.1111/jth.12124
SP  - 412
EP  - 422
KW  - clinical decision rule
KW  - D-dimer
KW  - deep vein thrombosis
KW  - diagnostic management
KW  - imaging
KW  - pulmonary embolism
KW  - venous thromboembolism
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary Acute deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) represent two expressions of a similar clinical pathological process, often referred to as venous throm-boembolism (VTE). It has long been recognized that, as clinical signs and symptoms of PE and DVT are not specific for the diagnosis, objective diagnosis in both patients presenting with leg symptoms and those with chest symptoms is mandatory. Since the last review on this subject in this journal in 2009, several large trials have been performed that shed new light on all aspects of the diagnostic management of suspected VTE, especially in the field of simplified clinical decision rules, age-dependent D-dimer cut-offs and magnetic resonance imaging. A literature search covering the period 2007?2012 was performed using the Medline/PubMed database to identify all relevant papers regarding the diagnostic management of acute PE and DVT. Established concepts and the latest evidence on this subject will be the main focus of this review.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 2006 Abstracts: Twenty-Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research: Pennsylvania Convention Convention Center Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA, September 15–19, 2006
JO  - Journal of Bone and Mineral Research
JA  - J Bone Miner Res
VL  - 21
IS  - S1
SN  - 0884-0431
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbmr.5650211403
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbmr.5650211403
SP  - S52
EP  - S101
PY  - 2006
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 245-386
TI  - P
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118582121.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118582121.ch16
SP  - 245-386
KW  - packaging principle
KW  - pairing principle
KW  - panoptimization principle
KW  - pansystems principle
KW  - Papert's principle
PY  - 2006
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Packaging Principle Pairing Principle Panoptimization Principle Pansystems Principle Pansystems Relativity Method/Principle Pantograph's Parallelogram Principle Papert's Principle Pappus Centrold Principle Pappus' Principle Paradox Principle Paradox-Tolerating Principle Parallel Resolution Principle Parallelogram Principle Parametric Ekeland Variational Principle Parameterized Proof Principle Parameterized Proof Principle Pareto Principle Pareto Principle of Optimal Design of Experiments Paris Principle Parity Principle Parr-Pearson Principle Parsimony Principle Part-Current Principle Partial Likelihood Principle Pascal's Principle Paschen's Principle Pater Principle Paternoster's Principle Path Principle Patience Principle Pauli Antisymmetry and Exclusion Principle Pauli Exclusion Principle Pauli Principle Pauli-Ferm Principle Pavlov's Principle Pearson Principle Pearson-Penaz Principle Peelian Principle Penaz Principle Pendulum Principle Peng's Principle Penny Principle Percolation Principle Perfect Cosmological Principle Perfection Principle Performativity Principle Peristaltic Principle Permaculture Principles Permanence of Mathematical Relations Principle Permutation Principle Persona Principle Perturbation Invariance Principle Peter Principle Peterbilt Principle Phase Angle Principle Phase Contrast Principle Phase Matching Principle Phase Separation Principle Phased Capture Principle Phonetic Principle Photoelectric Barrier Principle Phragmén-Lindelöf Principle Physical Principle of Computation Physiochemical Principle Picard Principle Pigeonhole Principle Pigeonhole Principle Pigou-Dalton Transfer Principle Pilates Principle Pinch Principle Pipeline Principle Pitzer Corresponding States Principle Piu Principle 1 Piu Principle 2 Piu Principle 3 Piu Principle 4 Piu Principle 5 Piu Principle 6 Piu Principle 7 Piu Principle 8 Piu Principle 9 Piu Principle 10 Place Principle Planck Principle Planck Radiation Principle Pleasure Principle Pleasure Principle Pleasure?Pain Principle Pleasure?Unpleasure Principle Plunger Magnet Principle Plus/Minus Interaction Principle Poincaré's Holomorphic Principle Poincaré's Principle Point of Principle Pointer Processing Principle Pointwise Maximum Principle Polanyi?Evans?Bell Principle Police Principles Poliquin Principle Polishing Principle Political Principle Polluter Pays Principle Pollyanna Principle Pólya?Szegö Principle Polymer Principle Polyuronid Active Principle Pome Poncelet's Continuity Principle Pontryagin's Discrete-Time Maximum Principle Pontryagin's Discrete-Time Minimum Principle Pontryagin's Maximum Principle (PMP) Pontryagin's Minimum Principle (PMP) Positionality Principle Pontryagin's Principle Positioning Principle Positive-Displacement Principle Posner Principle Potential Energy Minimization Principle Potential Principle Powdering Principle Power Principle Prado's Principle Prägnanz Principle Pratt's Principle Precaution Principle Precautionary Principle Premack Principle Pressure Crushing Principle Pressure Differential Principle Pressure Principle Priest Tang Ruowang's Principle Prigogine?Glansdorff Principle Prigogine Principle Prigogine's Principle of Minimum Entropy Priming Principle Priming Principle Regimen Administration Princeton Principles Principal-Component Analysis Principle Principle A: Beneficence and Nonmaleficence Principle B: Fidelity and Responsibility Principle C: Integrity Principle D: Justice Principle E: Respect for People's Rights and Dignity Principles and Parameters Theory Principle Authority Level Principle-Based Negotiating Principle-Eased Parser Principle-Centered Leadership Principle-Centered Living Principle-Centered Spine Care Principle Commitment Principle Critical Parameters Principle Kk Principle Molecular Dynamics Principle of a Ball Piston Pump Principle of Absoluteness Principle of Absoluteness of Responsibility Principle of Acquisition Principle of Acquisition Reform Principle of Action Principle of Actualism Principle of Alternatives Principle of an Ice Cream Maker Principle of Angular Echo Spectroscopy Principle of Archimedes Principle of Area Principle of Assumption Principle of Assurance of Objective Principle of Assurance of Objective Principle of Authority and Responsibility Principle of Authority and Responsibility Principle of Avoiding Conflict Principle of Balance Principle of Balance Principle of Belt Filter Press See Filter Press Principle Principle of Beneficence Principle of Beneficence Principle of Bioelectrical Impedance Principle of Bit/Digit-Serial Design Principle of Bit-Parallel Addition Principle of Bivalence Principle of Bivalence Principle of Black Hole Complementarity Principle of Braun?Le Chatelier Principle of Briquetting Principle of Buoyancy Principle of Burst Principle of Calculation Principle of Calorimetry Principle of Carathéodony Principle of Categorical Scope Principle of Causality Principle of Cause and Effect Principle of Cell Surface Receptor Principle of Centralization Principle of Change Principle of Charge Conservation Principle of Charity Principle of Chiral Interaction Principle of Choice of Optimal Decisions Principle of Choosing Optimal Algorithms Principle of Closure Principle of Cofinality Principle of Cognitive Dissonance Principle of Comparative Advantage Principle of Competitive Exclusion Principle of Competitive Strategies Principle of Competitive Strategies Principle of Complementarity Principle of Complementary Energy Principle of Complete Induction Principle of Composition of the Translations Principle of Compositionality Principle of Computational Equivalence Principle of Computed Tomography Principle of Concentration Principle of Conceptual Design Principle of Conferral Principle of Congregation Principle of Congruence Principle of Conjugated Chemical Reactions Principle of Conservation of Energy Principle of Conservation of Matter Principle of Conservation of Matter and Energy Principle of Conservation of Momentum Principle of Conservation of Total Vorticity Principle of Conservation of Work Principle of Constancy Principle of Constancy Principle of Constancy's Opposite Principle of Constant Proportions Principle of Construction and Operation Principle of Contiguity Principle of Continuity of Velocity Principle of Continuous Choice Principle of Contradiction Principle of Contrast Principle of Contradiction Principle of Contribution to Objectives Principle of Control Principle of Control Responsibility Principle of Conventionality Principle of Cooperation Principle of Coordination Principle of Correspondence Principle of Corresponding Rheological States Principle of Corresponding States Principle of Counting Constants Principle of Covariance Principle of Critical Plow Principle of Critical-Point Control Principle of Cross-Cutting Relationships Principle of Cross-Entropy Principle of Current Distribution Principle of D'Alembert Principle of Dandy Roll Principle of Decomposition Principle of Deducibility for Justification (PDJ) Principle of Delayed Gratification Principle of Definite Proportions Principle of Delegation Principle of Delegation by Results Expected Principle of Diastereometric Ion Pair Formation Principle of Dichotomy Principle of Differential Ph Measurement Principle of Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) Principle of Digit-Serial Addition for Digits of 2 Bits Principle of Direct Contact Principle of Direct Control Principle of Direct Supervision Principle of Directing Principle of Discipline Principle of Discrimination Principle of Displacement Principle of Dissolution of Function Principle of Distal-to-Proximal Development Principle of Distributivity Principle of Division of Work Principle of Do No Harm Principle of Dominance Modification Principle of Dominant Subsystems Principle of Domination Principle of Double Effect Principle of Duality Principle of Dulong and Petit Principle of Dynamic Ecology Principle of Dynamic Optimization Principle of Economy Principle of Effect Principle of Efficiency Principle of Efficiency of Controls Principle of Efficiency of Plans Principle of Efficient Communication Principle of Elasticity or Minimum Work Principle of Electromagnetic Induction Principle of Electronegativity Principle of Emancipation Principle of Empathy Principle of Energy Conservation Principle of Entropy Principle of Entropy Maximization Principle of Epilepsy Treatment Principle of Epistemic Closure Principle of Equal a Priori Probabilities Principle of Equicontinuity Principle of Equilibrium Principle of Equipartition of Energy Principle of Equipartition of Energy Principle of Equity Principle of Equivalence Principle of Equivalence Principle of Equivalence of Mass and Energy Principle of Equivalent Proportions Principle of Esprit De Corps Principle of Ethical Suitability Principle of Exact Reciprocity Principle of Excellence Principle of Excluded Middle Principle of Extendibility Principle of External Effects Principle of Factor Sparsity Principle of Faunal Succession Principle of Faunal Succession Principle of Filter Belt Press Principle of Finite Character Principle of Flexibility Principle of Flexibility of Controls Principle of Flexibility of Controls Principle of Flotation Deinking Principle of Fluid Orificing Principle of Fourier Transform Infrared Photoacoustic Spectroscopy Principle of Free Domain Principle of Frictional Charge Generation Principle of Functional Definition Principle of Functional Delegation Principle of Fundamental Characteristics Principle of Fundamental Justice Principle of Fundamentality Principle of Gainsharing Principle of Galilean Relativity Principle of Gender Principle of General Covariance Principle of Generic Consistency (PGC) Principle of Global Positioning System (GPS) Principle of Good Enough (POGE) Principle of Governing of Dissipative Processes Principle of Graeffe's Method Principle of Guldberg and Waage Principle of Habeas Mentem Principle of Harmony of Objectives Principle of Heavy Media Separation Principle of Heredity Principle of Histological Determination Principle of Holism Principle of Homeopathy Principle of Homo Typons Principle of Hope Principle of Hough Transform Representation Principle of Humanitarianism Principle of Humanity Principle of Hydraulic Fracturing Principle of Hypercomputation Upper Bounds Principle of Identity Principle of Immediate Gratification Principle of Impartiality Principle of Inaccesibility Principle of Inclusion?Exclusion Principle of Independence Principle of Indeterminacy Principle of Indifference Principle of Indiscernibles Principle of Individual Differences Principle of Individuality of Controls Principle of Indulgence Principle of Inertia Principle of Inertial Confinement Principle of Information Diffusion Principle of Inhibition Principle of Instant Gratification Principle of Insufficient Reason Principle of Integrating Interests Principle of Intercultural Communication Principle of Interference Principle of Invariance Principle of Invariant Imbedding Principle of Isomorphism Principle of Isostasy Principle of Job Definition Principle of Ju Principle of Just Enough Principle of Just Return Principle of Justice Principle of Kalman Filter Principle of Karma Principle of Kuan His Principle of Land Management Principle of Large Deviations Principle of Laser Speckle Flowgraphy Principle of Lateral Continuity Principle of Leadership Facilitation Principle of Learning Principle of Least Action Principle of Least Astonishment Principle of Least Authority (POLA) Principle of Least Constraint Principle of Least Effort Principle of Least Knowledge Principle of Least Motion Principle of Least Nuclear Motion Principle of Least Privilege Principle of Least Resistance Principle of Least Squares Principle of Least Surprise Principle of Least Time Principle of Least Wave Change Principle of Least Work Principle of Lex Talionis Principle of Limiting Factor Principle of Linear Momentum Principle of Linear Superposition Principle of Lines of Command Chain Principle of Linguistic Relativity Principle of Liquid Displacement Principle of Local Action Principle of Local Straightness of Curves Principle of Locality Principle of Logical Effort Principle of Macroscopic Separability Principles of Magnetohydrodynamics Principle of Majority Rule Based on Decisionmaking Power Demand Principle of Management Principle of Management Audit Principle of Management Development Principle of Managerial Appraisal Principle of Mass Action Principle of Material Frame Indifference Principle of Material Objectivity Principle of Mathematical Induction Principle of Maximal Dissipation Rate Principle of Maximum Boredom Principle of Maximum Complementary Energy Principle of Maximum Decision Efficiency Principle of Maximum Entropy (PME) Principle of Maximum Entropy on the Mean (PMEM) Principle of Maximum Hardness (PMH) Principle of Maximum Likelihood Principle of Maximum Nonaditive Entropy Principle of Maximum Pessimism Principle of Maximum U Uncertainty Principle of Maximum Work Principle of Mean Fitness Maximization Principle of Measurement Principle of Mechanics Principle of Mediocrity Principle of Mental Transmutation Principle of Mentalism Principle of Microscopic Reversibility Principle of Microreversibility Principle of Minimal Causation Principle of Minimal Privilege Principle of Minimum Astonishment Principle of Minimum Chi Square Principle of Minimum Cross-Entropy Principle of Minimum Discrimination Information (MDI) Principle of Minimum Dissipation Principle of Minimum Divergence Principle of Minimum Energy Principle of Minimum Energy Dissipation Principle of Minimum Expected Number of Observations in Sequential Analysis Principle of Minimum Inventory Level Principle of Minimum Kinetic Energy Principle of Minimum Mechanical Energy Principle of Minimum Potential Energy Principle of Minimum Surprise Principle of Minimum Total Potential Energy Principle of Mixtures Principle of Moments Principle of Momentum Principle of Monomutations Principle of Multiple Coding Principle of Multiple Proportions Principle of Mutual Help Principle of Napier's Bones Principle of Navigational Change Principle of Negative Freedom Principle of Neper's Bones Principle of Network Entropy Maximization Principle of Network Management Resources (NMR) Principle of Neurolinguistic Programming (NLP) Principle of Neutrality (NT) Principle of Nonimaging Principle of Nernst Principle of Noncontradiction Principle of Nonmaleficence Principle of Nonperfect Syncronization (PNS) Principle of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy Principle of Nucleation Principle of Numerology Principle of Object Oriented Design Principle of Object Scope Principle of Observational Compatibility Principle of Occam's Razor Principle of Octaves Principle of Oneness Principle of Open Competition in Promotion Principle of Operation Principle of Operational Compatibility Principle of Operationism Principle of Optical Bleaching Principle of Optical Coupling Principle of Optical Isolating Principle of Optical Phase Contrast Principle of Optimal Choice of Players Principle of Optimal Choice of Portfolio Principle of Optimal Feature Extraction in Pattern Recognition Principle of Optimal Reliability Principle of Optimality Principle of Order Principles of Organic Ion Radical Reactivity Principle of Organizational Suitability Principle of Organizing Cell Structure Principle of Original Horizontality Principle of Original Horizontality Principle of Osmosis Principle of Overcompensation Principle of Parallelism Principle of Parity Conservation Principle of Parity of Authority Principle of Parity of Authority and Responsibility Principle of Parsimonius Data Modeling Principle of Parsimony Principle of Part-Whole Determination Perceptual Assimilation Principle of Partial Pressures Principle of Particle Growth Retarding Principle of Passive Concentration Principle of Perception Principle of Performing Signal-Processing Operations Principle of Permanence Principle of Perpendicular Magnetization Principle of Perceptual Context Principle of Persistent Identifiers Principle of Per Survtvor Processing Principle of Photochemical Equivalence Principle of Photothermolysis Principle of Physical Timing Principle of Planetary Rotation Revolution Principle of Planning Principle of Planning Premises Principle of Plenitude Principle of Plurality Principle of Pneumatic Conveyance Principle of Polarity Principle of Policy Framework Principle of Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Principle of Polymerase Chain Reaction Principle of Population Principle of Positional Determinacy Principle of Power Principle of Prägnanz Principle of Preemption Principle of Pressure Swing Desorption Principle of Primacy of Planning Principle of Priority Principle of Prohibition of Reformatio in Peius Principle of Propagation of a Magnetic Traveling Wave Principle of Proportionality Principle of Proportionality Principle of Proportionate Punishment Principle of Proselytism Principle of Protection-Scale Selectivity Principle of Proximal Isovelocity Surface Area Principle of Proximity Principle of Psychoneuroimmunology Principle of Pulse-Code Modulation Principle of Pulse Variation Principle of Purpose Principle of Quantum Electrodynamics Principle of Quantum Reality Principle of Raid Method Principle of Rational Accommodation Principle of Rational Indices Principle of Rationality Principle of Reaction Principle of Reasonableness Principle of Reciprocal Inhibition Principle of Reciprocal Proportions Principle of Reciprocity Principle of Rectification Principle of Recurrent Causality Principle of Reference Principle of Reflection Principle of Reflection of Plans Principle of Reformatio in Peius Principle of Reinforcement Principle of Relationship Principle of Relativity Principle of Relevance Principle of Reliable Intuition Principle of Remuneration Principle of Representation Theory Principle of Respect for National Sovereignty Principle of Responsibility Principle of Restitutio in Integrum Principle of Retributive Justice Principle of Revealed Preference Principle of Reversibility Principle of Rhythm Principle of Route Choice Principle of Saint Venant's Principle of Saturation Analysis Principle of Scalar Chain Principle of Sb Electrode Principle of Sedimentation Principle of Selection Potential Principle of Self-Defense Principle of Self-Interest Principle of Self-Oscillations Principle of Separation Principle of Separation Principle of Separation?Individuation Principle of Similarity Principle of Simplicity Principle of Solidarity Principle of Step Wise Decision Making Principle of Strong Tranquility Principle of Weak Tranquility Principle of Simplicity Principle of Smooth Fit Principle of Somatomental Balance Principle of Sound Organizing Principle of Spacetime Reciprocity Principle of Special Relativity Principle of Specialization Principle of Spinor Superposition Principle of Stability of Tenure Principle of Stable Disequilibrium Principle of Staffing Principle of Staffing Principle of Staffing Objective Principle of Staffing Objectives Principle of Standards Principle of Standards Principle of Stationary Action Principle of Stationary Phase Principle of Statistical Mechanics Principle of Steam Dispersion Principle of Stepwise Decisionmaking Principle of Stepwise Reversibility Principle of Stereoscopic Image Principle of Stevino Principle of Stochastic Control Principle of Stochastic Modeling Principle of Strong Induction Principle of Structural Lag Principle of Structural Protection Principle of Structure-Activity Relationships (SAR) Principle of Subjective Freedom Principle of Subordination of Individual to General Interest Principle of Subsidiarity Principle of Subsidiarity Principle of Substance Stability Principle of Sufficiency and Necessity Principle of Sufficient Reason Principle of Sufficient Reason of Acting Principle of Sufficient Reason of Becoming Principle of Sufficient Reason of Being Principle of Sufficient Reason of Knowing Principle of Superposition Principle of Superposition Principle of Superposition Principle of Superposition of Waves Principle of Supervisory Techniques Principle of Symmetric Bracket Invariance Principle of Symmetric Criticality Principle of Symmetry Principle of Synoptic Antagonism Principle of the Activated Double Bond Principle of the Aerosol Particle Mass Analyzer (APM) Principle of the Argument Principle of the Argument Principle of the Centre-Periphery Principle of the Autonomy of the Will Principle of the Deflection Balances Principle of the ?Detained? Electron Principle of the Doppler Effect Principle of the Equality of Moments Principle of the Equipartition of Energy Principle of the Excluded Third Principle of the Form Impulse. (FORMTRIEB) Principle of the Hough Transform Principle of the International Economic Order Principle of the Maximum Principle of the Middle Way Principle of the Minimum Principle of the Minimum Principle of the Objective of Staffing Principle of the Poor Law Of Principle of the Proper Modulating Function Principle of the ?Released? Electron Principle of the Salutogenetic Triad Principle of the Transmission Electron Microscope Principle of the Uniqueness of Free Fall Principle of Thermally Stimulated Current (TSC) Principle of Thirds Principle of Time Invariance Principle of Time Gating Principle of Timing Principle of Time Domain Principle of Tissue Determination Principle of Total Control Principle of Total Differential Principle of Training Principle of Training of the Maximum Principle of Transfer Coding Principle of Transfinite Induction Principle of Transformation Groups Principle of Translatin Quantitativity Principle of Transitivity Principle of Ultrasonic Plastic Welding Principle of Uncertainty Principle of Undulatory Invariance Principle of Uniformitarianism Principle of Uniformity Principle of Uniformity Principle of Uniqueness Principle of Unity Principle of Unity of Command Principle of Unity of Direction Principle of Unity of Objective Principle of Universal Development Principle of Universal Gravitation Principle of Universality Principle of Univocal Determination Principle of Variance Minimization Principle of Velocity/Acceleration Combination Principle of Vibration Principle of Vibration Measurement Principle of Virtual Power Principle of Virtual Velocity Principle of Virtual Work Principle of Vis Viva Principle of Volumes [Chemistry] Principle of Waterstop Function Principle of Weak Induction Principle of Whole-Part Determination Principle of Work Principle of X-Ray Computed Tomography Principle of Zero Waste Principle Remifentanil Principle That the Polluter Pays Principle to the Dual Pressure Principles for Networked World Principles of Attention Stress Principles of Biomedical Ethics Principles of Chemical Compositions Principles of Compiler Design Principles of Conditions for Equilibrium Principles of Darcy's Law Principles of Determination Principles of Economics Principles of Energetics Principles of Ethics Principles of Flight Principles of Hough Transform Representation Principles of Human Effectiveness Principles of Intelligent Urbanism (PIU) Principles of Ion Transfer Principles of Justice Principles of Jus in Bello Principles of Military Strategy Principles of Multiple Function Principles of Neurolinguistic Programming (NLP) Principles of Nyquist's Theorem Principles of Overdetermination Principles of Patient Care Principles of Perception Principles of Philosophy Principles of Political Economy and Taxation Principles of Psychology Principles of Revolution Principle of the Vital Few Principles of Theoretical Logic Principles of Therapy of HIV Infection Principles of Uncertainty Principles of Uncertainty and Information Invariance Principles of Unitarian Univeralism Principles of Unity Principles of Vapor-Liquid Equilibria Principles of War Principles of Warfare Principles of Zoological Philosophy Priority Principle Privacy Principle Proactionary Principle Probablistic Exclusion Principle Process Principle Processing Principle Producer/Consumer Principle Product Solution Principle Production Principle Profit Impact of Market Strategies (PIMS) Principles Projection Principle Proof of Principle Proof Principle Proportional Induction Principle Protection Principle Proximal-Distal Principle Proximate Principle Proximity Compatibility Principle Proximity Principle Prudent Avoidance Principle Pseudo-Generalized Variational Principle (GVP) Pseudo-2-Path Principle Psychology Principles Pull Principle Pulse Coincidence Principle Pulse Echo Principle Pulse Oximetry Principle Pulse Transit-Time Principle Pulsed Doppler Principle Punctuation Principle Pungent Principle Punishment Principle Push Principle Pythagoras Principle
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rosenthal, Liana S.
AU  - Drake, Daniel
AU  - Alcalay, Roy N.
AU  - Babcock, Debra
AU  - Bowman, F. DuBois
AU  - Chen-Plotkin, Alice
AU  - Dawson, Ted M.
AU  - Dewey Jr., Richard B.
AU  - German, Dwight C.
AU  - Huang, Xuemei
AU  - Landin, Barry
AU  - McAuliffe, Matthew
AU  - Petyuk, Vladislav A.
AU  - Scherzer, Clemens R.
AU  - Hillaire-Clarke, Coryse St.
AU  - Sieber, Beth-Anne
AU  - Sutherland, Margaret
AU  - Tarn, Chi
AU  - West, Andrew
AU  - Vaillancourt, David
AU  - Zhang, Jing
AU  - Gwinn, Katrina
AU  - on behalf of the PDBP consortium
TI  - The NINDS Parkinson's disease biomarkers program
JO  - Movement Disorders
JA  - Mov Disord.
VL  - 31
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mds.26438
DO  - doi:10.1002/mds.26438
SP  - 915
EP  - 923
KW  - Parkinsonism
KW  - disease-modifying strategies
KW  - biofluids
KW  - data management
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Background Neuroprotection for Parkinson's disease (PD) remains elusive. Biomarkers hold the promise of removing roadblocks to therapy development. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has therefore established the Parkinson's Disease Biomarkers Program to promote discovery of PD biomarkers for use in phase II and III clinical trials. Methods Using a novel consortium design, the Parkinson's Disease Biomarker Program is focused on the development of clinical and laboratory-based biomarkers for PD diagnosis, progression, and prognosis. Standardized operating procedures and pooled reference samples were created to allow cross-project comparisons and assessment of batch effects. A web-based Data Management Resource facilitates rapid sharing of data and biosamples across the research community for additional biomarker projects. Results Eleven consortium projects are ongoing, seven of which recruit participants and obtain biosamples. As of October 2014, 1,082 participants have enrolled (620 PD, 101 with other causes of parkinsonism, 23 essential tremor, and 338 controls), 1,040 of whom have at least one biosample. Six thousand eight hundred ninety-eight total biosamples are available from baseline, 6-, 12-, and 18-month visits: 1,006 DNA, 1,661 RNA, 1,419 whole blood, 1,382 plasma, 1,200 serum, and 230 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Quality control analysis of plasma, serum, and CSF samples indicates that almost all samples are high quality (24 of 2,812 samples exceed acceptable hemoglobin levels). Conclusions By making samples and data widely available, using stringent operating procedures based on existing standards, hypothesis testing for biomarker discovery, and providing a resource that complements existing programs, the Parkinson's Disease Biomarker Program will accelerate the pace of PD biomarker research. ? 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dentino, Andrew
AU  - Lee, Seokwoo
AU  - Mailhot, Jason
AU  - Hefti, Arthur F.
TI  - Principles of periodontology
JO  - Periodontology 2000
VL  - 61
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0757.2011.00397.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0757.2011.00397.x
SP  - 16
EP  - 53
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Periodontal diseases are among the most common diseases affecting humans. Dental biofilm is a contributor to the etiology of most periodontal diseases. It is also widely accepted that immunological and inflammatory responses to biofilm components are manifested by signs and symptoms of periodontal disease. The outcome of such interaction is modulated by risk factors (modifiers), either inherent (genetic) or acquired (environmental), significantly affecting the initiation and progression of different periodontal disease phenotypes. While definitive genetic determinants responsible for either susceptibility or resistance to periodontal disease have yet to be identified, many factors affecting the pathogenesis have been described, including smoking, diabetes, obesity, medications, and nutrition. Currently, periodontal diseases are classified based upon clinical disease traits using radiographs and clinical examination. Advances in genomics, molecular biology, and personalized medicine may result in new guidelines for unambiguous disease definition and diagnosis in the future. Recent studies have implied relationships between periodontal diseases and systemic conditions. Answering critical questions regarding host-parasite interactions in periodontal diseases may provide new insight in the pathogenesis of other biomedical disorders. Therapeutic efforts have focused on the microbial nature of the infection, as active treatment centers on biofilm disruption by non-surgical mechanical debridement with antimicrobial and sometimes anti-inflammatory adjuncts. The surgical treatment aims at gaining access to periodontal lesions and correcting unfavorable gingival/osseous contours to achieve a periodontal architecture that will provide for more effective oral hygiene and periodontal maintenance. In addition, advances in tissue engineering have provided innovative means to regenerate/repair periodontal defects, based upon principles of guided tissue regeneration and utilization of growth factors/biologic mediators. To maintain periodontal stability, these treatments need to be supplemented with long-term maintenance (supportive periodontal therapy) programs.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Table of Contents
JO  - The Brown University Child and Adolescent Behavior Letter
JA  - Child Adol. Behav. Letter
VL  - 29
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cbl.20179
DO  - doi:10.1002/cbl.20179
SP  - 1
EP  - 8
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Youth Sexting: Balancing Media Representations and Emerging Data Let Evidence Show Us the Way: Presidential Elections, Statistical Literacy, and Child Behavior Inattention, Hyperactivity, and Emergent Literacy PTSD in Infants and Preschoolers with Cancer Stimulants: Misuse, Cognitive Impact, and Adverse Effects POTS Update: Progress Made on Treating OCD in Young Children Study Examines Child Psychiatric Treatment Outcomes Study: Complementary and Alternative Medicine for Autism It is Time to Eliminate Life in Prison without Parole for Crimes Committed by Juveniles
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rannikko, Sunna
AU  - Stolt, Minna
AU  - Suhonen, Riitta
AU  - Leino-Kilpi, Helena
TI  - Ethical issues in the care of patients with stroke: A scoping review
JO  - Journal of Clinical Nursing
JA  - J Clin Nurs
VL  - 28
IS  - 1-2
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jocn.14661
DO  - doi:10.1111/jocn.14661
SP  - 20
EP  - 31
KW  - care
KW  - ethics
KW  - literature review
KW  - neurology
KW  - stroke
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Aims and objectives The aim was to identify and analyse the ethical issues in the care of patients with stroke (PwS). The goal was to understand the nature of the existing knowledge on the topic and to identify whether there are ethical issues specific to the care of PwS. Background Stroke is a disease with possible multiple effects on the patient's overall condition and experienced ethical issues in the care. Additionally, stroke impacts the life of the significant other. For health professionals, the care of PwS is challenging at different stages of the care process. The care of stroke includes several ethically sensitive situations from the perspectives of all participants. Design Scoping review. Methods The review was conducted following the five-stage methodological framework of Arksey and O'Malley (2005). The literature search was conducted in several electronic databases and complemented with a manual search, resulting in 15 reviewed articles. The analysis was conducted by charting descriptive numerical data and by content analysis of the narrative representations. Results The studies focused on hospital or rehabilitation contexts and a high number of studies had a qualitative approach. Three main themes were identifiable: ?decision-making as an ethically challenging act,? ?care process-specific ethical issues? and ?environmental ethical issues.? Conclusions Ethical issues occur at different stages of the care process of PwS and from the viewpoints of all those involved. However, not all the recognised ethical issues were stroke specific. As the number of the reviewed articles was limited, more research is needed for a comprehensive understanding of the topic. Relevance to clinical practice Individual health professionals may use the results in observing their own action from an ethical perspective and to deepen the ethical understanding of the care of PwS. In health care organisations, the results may be used in developing the ethical quality of care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Blenkinsop, Alex
AU  - Valentin, Antonio
AU  - Richardson, Mark P.
AU  - Terry, John R.
TI  - The dynamic evolution of focal-onset epilepsies – combining theoretical and clinical observations
JO  - European Journal of Neuroscience
VL  - 36
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08082.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08082.x
SP  - 2188
EP  - 2200
KW  - bifurcation analysis
KW  - focal epilepsy
KW  - mathematical model
KW  - neural mass formulation
KW  - numerical continuation
KW  - seizure evolution
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Focal-onset seizures have traditionally been conceptualised as having a highly circumscribed onset in an ?abnormal? brain region, with evolution of the seizure requiring recruitment of adjacent or connected ?normal? brain regions. Complementing this concept of the spatial evolution of seizures, the purpose of our present paper is to explore the evidence for the dynamic evolution of focal epilepsy using bifurcation analysis of a neural mass model, and subsequently relating these bifurcations to specific features of clinical data recordings in the time domain. Our study was motivated by recent research in idiopathic generalised epilepsies which has suggested that the temporal evolution of seizures may arise out of gradual changes in underlying physiological mechanisms. We found that spikes in the considered model arose out of so-called ?false? bifurcations, a finding consistent with other neural models with two timescales of inhibitory processes. We compared these results with previous studies of the model before extending them to characterise other more complex model behaviours. We then explored the relationship between model dynamics and clinical recordings from patients with focal epilepsies. Here we used an algorithm to subdivide each recording into time windows for which the data is approximately stationary. We then used our bifurcation findings to map out the evolution of seizures based on features of the clinical data from each of the epochs identified by our algorithm. We finally explored the similarity of the seizure evolution within patients, using random surrogates to test for statistical significance.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Liu, Xinyu
AU  - Wen, Fuqiang
AU  - Yang, Jinliang
AU  - Chen, Lijuan
AU  - Wei, Yu-Quan
TI  - A review of current applications of mass spectrometry for neuroproteomics in epilepsy
JO  - Mass Spectrometry Reviews
JA  - Mass Spectrom. Rev.
VL  - 29
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mas.20243
DO  - doi:10.1002/mas.20243
SP  - 197
EP  - 246
KW  - mass spectrometry
KW  - systems biology
KW  - neuroproteomics
KW  - hippocampus
KW  - epilepsy
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract The brain is unquestionably the most fascinating organ, and the hippocampus is crucial in memory storage and retrieval and plays an important role in stress response. In temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), the seizure origin typically involves the hippocampal formation. Despite tremendous progress, current knowledge falls short of being able to explain its function. An emerging approach toward an improved understanding of the complex molecular mechanisms that underlie functions of the brain and hippocampus is neuroproteomics. Mass spectrometry has been widely used to analyze biological samples, and has evolved into an indispensable tool for proteomics research. In this review, we present a general overview of the application of mass spectrometry in proteomics, summarize neuroproteomics and systems biology-based discovery of protein biomarkers for epilepsy, discuss the methodology needed to explore the epileptic hippocampus proteome, and also focus on applications of ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) in disease research. This neuroproteomics survey presents a framework for large-scale protein research in epilepsy that can be applied for immediate epileptic biomarker discovery and the far-reaching systems biology understanding of the protein regulatory networks. Ultimately, knowledge attained through neuroproteomics could lead to clinical diagnostics and therapeutics to lessen the burden of epilepsy on society. ? 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., Mass Spec Rev 29:197?246, 2010
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hou, Wai Kai
AU  - Lau, Kam Man
AU  - Ng, Sin Man
AU  - Lee, Tatia Mei Chun
AU  - Cheung, Hester Yui Shan
AU  - Shum, Tracy Chui Yu
AU  - Cheng, Ashley Chi Kin
C8  - PON-15-0391.R1
TI  - Psychological detachment and savoring in adaptation to cancer caregiving
JO  - Psycho-Oncology
JA  - Psycho‐Oncology
VL  - 25
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pon.4019
DO  - doi:10.1002/pon.4019
SP  - 839
EP  - 847
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Background Recovery experience including psychological detachment from caregiving and savoring positive moments in life could be complementary coping processes for cancer caregivers. This study aims to examine the nature of their associations with caregiving burden and anxiety and depressive symptoms among Chinese cancer caregivers in Hong Kong. Methods A total of 155 Chinese caregivers of recently diagnosed cancer patients (mean time since diagnosis?=?42.57 days, SD?=?39.25) were recruited from two major government-funded hospitals and administered a questionnaire assessing psychological detachment, savoring, caregiving burden, anxiety and depressive symptoms, and demographics. Results Controlling for demographic and medical covariates, structural equation modeling revealed significant associations of detachment, savoring, and their interaction term with caregiving burden and anxiety and depressive symptoms. Detachment and savoring were inversely associated with caregiving burden only when the other was at lower/medium levels. Detachment was inversely associated with anxiety and depressive symptoms at lower/medium levels of savoring, but savoring was inversely associated with anxiety and depressive symptoms across all levels of detachment. Conclusions Detachment and savoring could overshadow the positive impact of the other on caregiving burden if either one is at higher levels, while they could demonstrate concurrent positive impact on burden when both are at lower/medium levels. Savoring could have a prioritized role in ameliorating caregivers' anxiety and depressive symptoms, supplemented by detachment. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Scherberich, Arnaud
AU  - Müller, Andreas M.
AU  - Schäfer, Dirk J.
AU  - Banfi, Andrea
AU  - Martin, Ivan
TI  - Adipose tissue-derived progenitors for engineering osteogenic and vasculogenic grafts
JO  - Journal of Cellular Physiology
JA  - J. Cell. Physiol.
VL  - 225
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.22313
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcp.22313
SP  - 348
EP  - 353
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract The current need for bone grafts in orthopedic and reconstructive surgery cannot be satisfied by autologous tissue transplant due to its limited availability and significant associated morbidity. Tissue engineering approaches could supply sufficient amounts of bone substitutes by exploiting the ability to harvest autologous osteogenic progenitors associated with suitable porous materials. However, the generation of clinically relevant-sized constructs is critically hampered by limited vascularization, with consequent engraftment and survival only of a thin outer shell, upon in vivo implantation. To overcome this limitation, different non-mutually exclusive approaches have recently been developed to promote or accelerate graft vascularization, from angiogenic growth factor gene delivery to surgical pre-vascularization of the construct before implantation. A simple, promising strategy involves the co-culture of vasculogenic cells to form an intrinsic vascular network inside the graft in vitro, which can rapidly anastomose with the host blood vessels in vivo. Recent data have shown that adipose tissue-derived stromal vascular fraction (SVF) may provide an efficient, convenient, and autologous source for both osteogenic and endothelial cells. When SVF progenitors were cultured in appropriate bioreactor systems and ectopically implanted, a functional vascular network connected to the host was formed concomitantly to bone formation. Future studies should aim at demonstrating that this approach effectively supports survival of scaled up cell-based bone grafts at an orthotopic site. The procedure should also be adapted to become compatible with an intra-operative timeline and complemented with the definition of suitable potency markers, to facilitate its development into a simplified, reproducible, and cost-effective clinical treatment. J. Cell. Physiol. 225: 348?353, 2010. ? 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Posters Abstracts
JO  - Research and Practice in Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - Res Pract Thromb Haemost
VL  - 3
IS  - S1
SN  - 9780470146804
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rth2.12229
DO  - doi:10.1002/rth2.12229
SP  - 1
EP  - 891
PY  - 2019
ER  - 

AU  - Lünenburger, Lars
AU  - Lam, Tania
AU  - Riener, Robert
AU  - Colombo, Gery
TI  - Gait Retraining After Neurological Disorders
SN  - 9780471249672
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780471740360.ebs1393
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780471740360.ebs1393
KW  - locomotor training
KW  - treadmill therapy
KW  - body-weight support
KW  - gait robot
KW  - walking
KW  - control strategies
KW  - biofeedback
KW  - clinical assessment
KW  - neurological injuries
KW  - rehabilitation
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Neurological disorders like traumatic brain injury, stroke, and spinal cord injury often adversely affect a person's ability to walk. Restoration of gait function is an important goal in the rehabilitation of these patients. Appropriate motor training can facilitate adaptations in the nervous system to recover function after an injury. Important aspects of motor training include task-specific performance and repetition of the affected movement. This means that to improve walking, the patient must walk. Body-weight supported treadmill training is becoming increasingly accepted as a valuable strategy for gait rehabilitation after neurological injury. Treadmills that run at slow locomotor speeds allow patients who are partially unloaded from their body weight to walk, possibly with manual assistance by one or more therapists. However, manual therapy is limited in terms of duration, repeatability, and quantification. Robotic devices allow longer training sessions with better support and control of the leg movements. Current developments are directed to patient-cooperative strategies, which allow the robotic device to adapt to the patient's needs and efforts. Furthermore, proper design of these devices leaves open many possibilities for a repertoire of additional assessment tools that measure patients? performance during training and other clinical parameters. Future directions in this field include combining robotic devices with functional electrical stimulation and the development of robotic orthoses for retraining overground walking.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Horn, Eva M.
AU  - Warren, Steven F.
AU  - Jones, Hazel A.
TI  - AN EXPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS OF A NEUROBEHAVIORAL MOTOR INTERVENTION
JO  - Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology
VL  - 37
IS  - 8
SN  - 9780471249672
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8749.1995.tb15016.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1469-8749.1995.tb15016.x
SP  - 697
EP  - 714
PY  - 1995
AB  - SUMMARY This study reports the effects of a neurobehavioral intervention approach on the motor skills of four children with cerebral palsy between 21 and 34 months of age. The intervention is based on the merging of neuromotor and behavioral approaches. The behavioral approach, using principles of ?how to teach?, addressed motivational issues and allowed for precise definitions of expected outcomes which assisted in measuring acquisition and generalization of behaviors. The neuromotor approach provided ?what to teach? by focusing the intervention on underlying movement components (e.g., trunk rotation, weight bearing) rather than discrete milestone skills. The impact of the approach was assessed using a multiple-baseline design replicated three times. The children demonstrated the movement component by using it to perform both a treated exemplar skill (i.e. a motor skill requiring the movement component for execution) and an untreated exemplar skill. RÉSUMÉ Analyse expérimentale d'une approche nwtrice neurocomportementale L' ?article rapporte les effets d'une approche neurocomportementale dans les interventions pour le développement des capacités motrices de quartre enfants IMC âgés de 21 à 34 mois. L'? action est basée sur un mixage des approches de rééducation motrice et comportementales. L'approche comportementale. utilisant les principes de ?comment apprendre?, repose sur la motivation et permet des définitions précises des résultats à attendre, ce qui est une aide pour apprécier les acquisitions et la généralisation des comportcments. L'approche neuromotrice fournit ?ce qui est à apprendre? en centrant L'intervention sur les composantes sous-jacentes de mouvement (par exemple, rotation du tronc, port de poids) plutôt que sur des étapes d'acquisition prédéfinies. L'efficacité de l'approche a étéévaluée à partir d'un protoeole multi-critéres répété trois fois. Les enfants démontraient qu'une composante de mouvement avait bien été acquise en y faisant appel, à la fois pour effectuer une táche apprise (par exemple une activité motrice apprise exigeant la composante de mouvement pour son exécution) et dans un contexte no abordé au cours du traitement. ZUSAMMENFASSUNG Experimenielle Analyse eines verhaltensneurologischen motorischen Behanjlungskonzepies Diese Arbeit berichtet über die Einflüsse eines verhaltensneurologischen Behandlungskonzeptes auf die motorischen Fähigkeiten von vier Kindern mit Cerebralparese im Alter zwischen 21 und 34 Monaten. Die Behandlung basierte auf einer Verbindung von neuromotorischen und verhaltensneurologischen Ansätzen. Der verhaltensneurologische Ansatz, der nach den Prinzipien ?wie wird gelchrt? vorging, arbeitete mit der Motivation und ermöglichte genaue Definitionen des erwartelen Outcome, wodurch die Linstufung des Lrlernens und der allgemeinen Ausbreitung von Verhaltensmustern erleichtert vvurde. Der neuromoiorische Ansatz beinhaltetc ?was wird gelehrt?, wobei sieh die Behandlung mehr auf die zugrundeliegendcn Bewegungskomponenten (z.B. Rumpfrotation, weight bearing) konzentrierte als auf diskrete als Meilensteine bekannte Fähigkeiten. Das Krgebnis des Ansatzes wurde anhand eines multiple-baseline design beurteili. Die Kinder zcigten die Bewegungskomponente, sowohl bei den behandelten exemplarischen Fähigkeiten (z.B. cine motorische Fähigkeit, die nur mit Hilfe der Bewegungskomponente ausgeführt werden kann), als auch bei den unbehandelten exemplarischen Fähigkeiten. RESUMEN Análisis experimental tie una intervención minora neuroconductual Se aportan los efcctos de una intervcnción neuroconductual sobre las habilidades motoras de cuatro niños con paralisis cerebral de 21 a 34 meses dc cdad. La intervención se basa en la confluencia de aproximaciones neuromotoras y eonductuales. La aproximación conduclual usando principios de ?cómo enseñar? orienta factores motivacionales y pcrmite definiciones precisas de cursos esperados que actuan en la medición de ta adquisición y getieralización de conductas. La aproximación neuromotora aporta el ?qué enseñar? concentrando la intervención en determinados componentes secundarios del movimiento (por ej. rotación del tronco, soportar un peso) más bien que en hitos discretos. El impacto de la aproximación se evaluó utilizando un diseño de múltiples lineas basales replicada tres veces. Los niños mostraron el componente motor utilizando lo para rcalizar una habilidad ejemplar tratada (esto es una habilidad motora que requerfa el componente motor para realizarse) y una habilidad ejemplar no tratada.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Andersen, M. Robyn
AU  - Afdem, Kelsey
AU  - Hager, Shelly
AU  - Gaul, Marcia
AU  - Sweet, Erin
AU  - Standish, Leanna J.
C8  - PON-15-0221.R1
TI  - The ‘cause’ of my cancer, beliefs about cause among breast cancer patients and survivors who do and do not seek IO care
JO  - Psycho-Oncology
JA  - Psycho‐Oncology
VL  - 26
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780471249672
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pon.4028
DO  - doi:10.1002/pon.4028
SP  - 248
EP  - 254
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Objective We sought to describe survivors' beliefs about the cause of their breast cancer and to test the hypothesis that beliefs about cancer's cause are associated with treatment preferences in accordance with the common sense model of self-regulation of health and illness. Methods Breast cancer survivors (n?=?552) participating in an observational study of cancer outcomes responded to an open-ended question about the cause of their cancer. Of these, 245 women had sought treatment from complementary and alternative integrative oncology (IO) clinics, and 307 women did not. Results Women frequently described theories for their cancer's cause including genetics and family history (31%), stress and coping (31%), toxins and chemicals (27%), a variety of lifestyle and epidemiological risk factors, and randomness (17%). Self-reported beliefs about cancer's cause differed among women in association with their use of IO. IO users were somewhat more likely to describe stress and poor coping as causes of their cancer and less likely to describe random chance as a cause of cancer (p?<?0.05). Conclusions Beliefs about the cause of cancer change over time and may predict decisions to use specific treatment including complementary and alternative medicine and IO. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Villacampa, Nàdia
AU  - Almolda, Beatriz
AU  - Vilella, Antonietta
AU  - Campbell, Iain L.
AU  - González, Berta
AU  - Castellano, Bernardo
TI  - Astrocyte-targeted production of IL-10 induces changes in microglial reactivity and reduces motor neuron death after facial nerve axotomy
JO  - Glia
JA  - Glia
VL  - 63
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780471249672
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/glia.22807
DO  - doi:10.1002/glia.22807
SP  - 1166
EP  - 1184
KW  - microglia
KW  - transgenic animal
KW  - neuronal survival
KW  - lymphocytes
KW  - nerve injury
KW  - neurodegeneration
KW  - cytokines
KW  - IL-10R
KW  - CD18
KW  - CD16/32
KW  - MHC-II
KW  - CD39
KW  - arginase-1
KW  - Ym-1
KW  - CD150
PY  - 2015
AB  - Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a cytokine that plays a crucial role in regulating the inflammatory response and immune reactions. In the central nervous system (CNS), IL-10 is mainly produced by astrocytes and microglia and it is upregulated after various insults, such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, middle cerebral artery occlusion, excitotoxicity and traumatic brain injury. To better understand the effects of IL-10 in the normal and injured CNS, we generated transgenic mice (termed GFAP-IL-10Tg) that expressed the murine IL-10 gene under the transcriptional control of the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter. Previous studies demonstrated marked changes in the microglial phenotype in these mice under basal conditions. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of local astrocyte-targeted IL-10 production on glial activation, neuronal degeneration and leukocyte recruitment after axotomy. GFAP-IL-10Tg mice had marked changes in the phenotype of activated microglial cells, as well as in the number of microglial clusters and in microglial cell density. These microglial changes are accompanied by a twofold increase in lymphocyte infiltration in GFAP-IL-10Tg mice and around twofold decrease in neuronal cell death at 21 dpi. Altogether, our findings suggested that astrocyte-targeted production of IL-10 impacted the microglial response and lymphocyte recruitment and culminated in a beneficial effect on neuronal survival. GLIA 2015;63:1166?1184
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Malfait, Fransiska
AU  - Francomano, Clair
AU  - Byers, Peter
AU  - Belmont, John
AU  - Berglund, Britta
AU  - Black, James
AU  - Bloom, Lara
AU  - Bowen, Jessica M.
AU  - Brady, Angela F.
AU  - Burrows, Nigel P.
AU  - Castori, Marco
AU  - Cohen, Helen
AU  - Colombi, Marina
AU  - Demirdas, Serwet
AU  - De Backer, Julie
AU  - De Paepe, Anne
AU  - Fournel-Gigleux, Sylvie
AU  - Frank, Michael
AU  - Ghali, Neeti
AU  - Giunta, Cecilia
AU  - Grahame, Rodney
AU  - Hakim, Alan
AU  - Jeunemaitre, Xavier
AU  - Johnson, Diana
AU  - Juul-Kristensen, Birgit
AU  - Kapferer-Seebacher, Ines
AU  - Kazkaz, Hanadi
AU  - Kosho, Tomoki
AU  - Lavallee, Mark E.
AU  - Levy, Howard
AU  - Mendoza-Londono, Roberto
AU  - Pepin, Melanie
AU  - Pope, F. Michael
AU  - Reinstein, Eyal
AU  - Robert, Leema
AU  - Rohrbach, Marianne
AU  - Sanders, Lynn
AU  - Sobey, Glenda J.
AU  - Van Damme, Tim
AU  - Vandersteen, Anthony
AU  - van Mourik, Caroline
AU  - Voermans, Nicol
AU  - Wheeldon, Nigel
AU  - Zschocke, Johannes
AU  - Tinkle, Brad
TI  - The 2017 international classification of the Ehlers–Danlos syndromes
JO  - American Journal of Medical Genetics Part C: Seminars in Medical Genetics
JA  - Am. J. Med. Genet.
VL  - 175
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780471249672
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.c.31552
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajmg.c.31552
SP  - 8
EP  - 26
KW  - classification
KW  - Ehlers–Danlos syndromes
KW  - genetic basis
KW  - collagen
PY  - 2017
AB  - The Ehlers?Danlos syndromes (EDS) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of heritable connective tissue disorders (HCTDs) characterized by joint hypermobility, skin hyperextensibility, and tissue fragility. Over the past two decades, the Villefranche Nosology, which delineated six subtypes, has been widely used as the standard for clinical diagnosis of EDS. For most of these subtypes, mutations had been identified in collagen-encoding genes, or in genes encoding collagen-modifying enzymes. Since its publication in 1998, a whole spectrum of novel EDS subtypes has been described, and mutations have been identified in an array of novel genes. The International EDS Consortium proposes a revised EDS classification, which recognizes 13 subtypes. For each of the subtypes, we propose a set of clinical criteria that are suggestive for the diagnosis. However, in view of the vast genetic heterogeneity and phenotypic variability of the EDS subtypes, and the clinical overlap between EDS subtypes, but also with other HCTDs, the definite diagnosis of all EDS subtypes, except for the hypermobile type, relies on molecular confirmation with identification of (a) causative genetic variant(s). We also revised the clinical criteria for hypermobile EDS in order to allow for a better distinction from other joint hypermobility disorders. To satisfy research needs, we also propose a pathogenetic scheme, that regroups EDS subtypes for which the causative proteins function within the same pathway. We hope that the revised International EDS Classification will serve as a new standard for the diagnosis of EDS and will provide a framework for future research purposes. ? 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Brines, M.
AU  - Cerami, A.
TI  - Erythropoietin-mediated tissue protection: reducing collateral damage from the primary injury response
JO  - Journal of Internal Medicine
VL  - 264
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780471249672
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2796.2008.02024.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2796.2008.02024.x
SP  - 405
EP  - 432
KW  - apoptosis
KW  - cytokines
KW  - cytoprotection
KW  - healing
KW  - inflammation
KW  - regeneration
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract. In its classic hormonal role, erythropoietin (EPO) is produced by the kidney and regulates the number of erythrocytes within the circulation to provide adequate tissue oxygenation. EPO also mediates other effects directed towards optimizing oxygen delivery to tissues, e.g. modulating regional blood flow and reducing blood loss by promoting thrombosis within damaged vessels. Over the past 15?years, many unexpected nonhaematopoietic functions of EPO have been identified. In these more recently appreciated nonhormonal roles, locally-produced EPO signals through a different receptor isoform and is a major molecular component of the injury response, in which it counteracts the effects of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Acutely, EPO prevents programmed cell death and reduces the development of secondary, pro-inflammatory cytokine-induced injury. Within a longer time frame, EPO provides trophic support to enable regeneration and healing. As the region immediately surrounding damage is typically relatively deficient in endogenous EPO, administration of recombinant EPO can provide increased tissue protection. However, effective use of EPO as therapy for tissue injury requires higher doses than for haematopoiesis, potentially triggering serious adverse effects. The identification of a tissue-protective receptor isoform has facilitated the engineering of nonhaematopoietic, tissue-protective EPO derivatives, e.g. carbamyl EPO, that avoid these complications. Recently, regions within the EPO molecule mediating tissue protection have been identified and this has enabled the development of potent tissue-protective peptides, including some mimicking EPO?s tertiary structure but unrelated in primary sequence.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ray, Thomas S.
TI  - DIVERSITY OF SHOOT ORGANIZATION IN THE ARACEAE
JO  - American Journal of Botany
JA  - American Journal of Botany
VL  - 74
IS  - 9
SN  - 9780471249672
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/j.1537-2197.1987.tb08752.x
DO  - doi:10.1002/j.1537-2197.1987.tb08752.x
SP  - 1373
EP  - 1387
PY  - 1987
AB  - Morphological units in the Araceae are discussed and defined. The fundamental unit is the segment (an internode and its leaf or leaves), of which there are two basic types, the monopodial segment and the branching segment. Segments are assembled into chains to form articles (also called axes), which terminate in inflorescences, and are the product of the activity of a single apical meristem. Successive articles are assembled into chains which are physiognomically unbranched shoots. Shoot organization in the Araceae is discriminated into types on the basis of five characteristics: whether the shoot is renewed after flowering, whether renewal axes are proleptic or sylleptic, whether renewal axes develop from an axillary position, whether renewal axes have a variable or a constant number of leaves, and the number of leaves on renewal axes with a constant leaf number. The types of growth are described, illustrated, and organized into a hierarchical scheme, and a terminology is provided. A list of species representing each of the types is given.
ER  - 
