
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Svechtarova, Mila I.
AU  - Buzzacchera, Irene
AU  - Toebes, B. Jelle
AU  - Lauko, Jan
AU  - Anton, Nicoleta
AU  - Wilson, Christopher J.
TI  - Sensor Devices Inspired by the Five Senses: A Review
JO  - Electroanalysis
JA  - Electroanalysis
VL  - 28
IS  - 6
SN  - 1040-0397
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/elan.201600047
DO  - doi:10.1002/elan.201600047
SP  - 1201
EP  - 1241
KW  - medical device
KW  - wearable
KW  - sensor
KW  - transduction
KW  - GPCR
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Wearable devices (wearables) have recently gained significant traction and are predicted to dominate many areas of research over the next 5 years. Many wearables contain a host of sensors that feedback vital bodily parameters to a central system. Although many artificial sensors exist, the biggest challenge to medical wearables is to interface and harness the ?big data? set from the human bodies own complex sensor network to better allow early diagnosis and/or treatment and prevention of diseases that have a huge economic burden on society such as type II diabetes. Cybernetics and medicine are joining their forces to overcome the new challenges in developing smarter, more intuitive and smaller sensors that interface with the human sensory system. This review is focused on the interface of devices to ion-mediated transduction pathways both through G-Coupled Protein Receptors and direct or mechanically transduced ion pathways.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Li, Ang
AU  - Lai, Yung-Chih
AU  - Figueroa, Seth
AU  - Yang, Tian
AU  - Widelitz, Randall B.
AU  - Kobielak, Krzysztof
AU  - Nie, Qing
AU  - Chuong, Cheng Ming
TI  - Deciphering principles of morphogenesis from temporal and spatial patterns on the integument
JO  - Developmental Dynamics
JA  - Dev. Dyn.
VL  - 244
IS  - 8
SN  - 1058-8388
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/dvdy.24281
DO  - doi:10.1002/dvdy.24281
SP  - 905
EP  - 920
KW  - stem cells
KW  - hairs
KW  - feathers
KW  - pattern formation
KW  - self-organization
KW  - regeneration
KW  - hair cycle
KW  - systems biology
KW  - molecular circuit
KW  - modularity
PY  - 2015
AB  - Background: How tissue patterns form in development and regeneration is a fundamental issue remaining to be fully understood. The integument often forms repetitive units in space (periodic patterning) and time (cyclic renewal), such as feathers and hairs. Integument patterns are visible and experimentally manipulatable, helping us reveal pattern formative processes. Variability is seen in regional phenotypic specificities and temporal cycling at different physiological stages. Results: Here we show some cellular/molecular bases revealed by analyzing integument patterns. (1) Localized cellular activity (proliferation, rearrangement, apoptosis, differentiation) transforms prototypic organ primordia into specific shapes. Combinatorial positioning of different localized activity zones generates diverse and complex organ forms. (2) Competitive equilibrium between activators and inhibitors regulates stem cells through cyclic quiescence and activation. Conclusions: Dynamic interactions between stem cells and their adjacent niche regulate regenerative behavior, modulated by multi-layers of macro-environmental factors (dermis, body hormone status, and external environment). Genomics studies may reveal how positional information of localized cellular activity is stored. In vivo skin imaging and lineage tracing unveils new insights into stem cell plasticity. Principles of self-assembly obtained from the integumentary organ model can be applied to help restore damaged patterns during regenerative wound healing and for tissue engineering to rebuild tissues. Developmental Dynamics 244:905?920, 2015. ? 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Harris, Alexander R.
AU  - Wallace, Gordon G.
C7  - 1700587
TI  - Organic Electrodes and Communications with Excitable Cells
JO  - Advanced Functional Materials
JA  - Adv. Funct. Mater.
VL  - 28
IS  - 12
SN  - 1616-301X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201700587
DO  - doi:10.1002/adfm.201700587
SP  - 1700587
KW  - advanced fabrication
KW  - carbon nanotubes
KW  - graphene
KW  - organic conducting polymers
KW  - neural electrodes
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Electrodes can provide information on neural function and stimulate neural activity. These neural electrodes can provide remarkable benefit to people suffering physical trauma or neural disease. Traditional metal electrodes have shortcomings related to poor biostability, cytocompatibility, and a rigid structure that maps poorly to tissue. Organic conductors can be formed with various chemical and physical properties to create improved electrode-neural interfaces. The processability of organic conductors enables their use in advanced fabrication methods. This review details the use of graphene, carbon nanotubes, and conducting polymers for neural interfacing. Construction of novel neural electrode architectures via advanced fabrication processes is also addressed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Samanta, R.
AU  - Shoukrey, K.
AU  - Griffiths, R.
TI  - Rheumatoid arthritis and anaesthesia
JO  - Anaesthesia
VL  - 66
IS  - 12
SN  - 0003-2409
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2044.2011.06890.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2044.2011.06890.x
SP  - 1146
EP  - 1159
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary There has been a great deal of progress in our understanding and management of rheumatoid arthritis in recent years. The peri-operative management of rheumatoid arthritis patients can be challenging and anaesthetists need to be familiar with recent developments and potential risks of this multi system disease. You can respond to this article at http://www.anaesthesiacorrespondence.com
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - POSTER PRESENTATION: BILIARY
JO  - HPB
VL  - 14
IS  - s2
SN  - 1365-182X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1477-2574.2012.00512.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1477-2574.2012.00512.x
SP  - 288
EP  - 699
PY  - 2012
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wosczyna, Michael N
AU  - Biswas, Arpita A
AU  - Cogswell, Catherine A
AU  - Goldhamer, David J
TI  - Multipotent progenitors resident in the skeletal muscle interstitium exhibit robust BMP-dependent osteogenic activity and mediate heterotopic ossification
JO  - Journal of Bone and Mineral Research
JA  - J Bone Miner Res
VL  - 27
IS  - 5
SN  - 0884-0431
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbmr.1562
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbmr.1562
SP  - 1004
EP  - 1017
KW  - HETEROTOPIC OSSIFICATION
KW  - FIBRODYSPLASIA OSSIFICANS PROGRESSIVA
KW  - FOP
KW  - TISSUE-SPECIFIC STEM CELL
KW  - SKELETAL MUSCLE
KW  - CRE/LOXP
KW  - TIE2
KW  - OSTEOGENESIS
KW  - ADIPOGENESIS
KW  - CLONAL ANALYSIS
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Heterotopic ossification is a debilitating condition that can result from traumatic injury, surgery, or genetic disease. We investigated the cellular origins of heterotopic skeletogenesis in the mouse using lineage tracing and bioassays of heterotopic ossification based on intramuscular transplantation. We identified, characterized, and purified a tissue-resident stem/progenitor cell population that exhibits robust osteogenic potential and represents a major cell-of-origin for heterotopic ossification. These progenitors reside in the interstitium of skeletal muscle and other tissues, and are distinct from the endothelium, which does not exhibit osteogenic activity in response to bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) stimulation. Intramuscular transplantation, together with clonal analysis in culture, revealed that these progenitors are multipotent, exhibiting the capacity for both BMP-dependent skeletogenic differentiation and spontaneous adipogenic differentiation. Identifying the cells-of-origin responsible for heterotopic ossification provides a potential therapeutic target to treat, mitigate, or prevent this disabling condition. ? 2012 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - XIIth Annual Meeting of the PanAmerican Society for Pigment Cell Research
JO  - Pigment Cell Research
VL  - 17
IS  - 4
SN  - 0893-5785
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0749.2004.00175.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0749.2004.00175.x
SP  - 426
EP  - 426
PY  - 2004
AB  - Implication of Pigment Cell Biology for Understanding Human Diseases was the topic of the The Sixth Annual Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center: Carcinogenesis and Cancer Prevention conference, jointly sponsored by the University of California Irvine College of Medicine and the PanAmerican Society of Pigment Cell Research This was a multi-disciplinary, three-and-one-half day conference for basic science and clinical investigators. The overall objectives of the meeting were to expand ideas, approaches, and collaborations for members of the society by bringing together experts in disciplines relevant to pigment cell research and associated diseases such as melanoma, albinoism, vitiligo, and other diseases of pigment cells. The meeting focused on recent developments in the genetics, novel gene function, gene expression pattern, and post-transcriptional processing of melanocyte specific proteins, melanosome function, melanin structure, and implications of recent basic advances for understanding human pigmentary diseases. These areas have been particularly productive due to recent breakthroughs and rapid progress in microarray gene expression, mass spectrometry, atomic force microscopy, electron paramagnetic resonance, and other physical chemical and molecular biotechnologies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Poster Presentations
JO  - Acta Physiologica
JA  - Acta Physiol
VL  - 216
IS  - S707
SN  - 1748-1708
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/apha.12672
DO  - doi:10.1111/apha.12672
SP  - 85
EP  - 223
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - van Weerd, Jasper
AU  - Karperien, Marcel
AU  - Jonkheijm, Pascal
TI  - Supported Lipid Bilayers for the Generation of Dynamic Cell–Material Interfaces
JO  - Advanced Healthcare Materials
JA  - Adv. Healthcare Mater.
VL  - 4
IS  - 18
SN  - 2192-2640
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adhm.201500398
DO  - doi:10.1002/adhm.201500398
SP  - 2743
EP  - 2779
KW  - supported lipid bilayers
KW  - cell interfaces
KW  - cell–cell contacts
KW  - cell–extracellular matrix contacts
KW  - biomimicry
PY  - 2015
AB  - Supported lipid bilayers (SLB) offer unique possibilities for studying cellular membranes and have been used as a synthetic architecture to interact with cells. Here, the state-of-the-art in SLB-based technology is presented. The fabrication, analysis, characteristics and modification of SLBs are described in great detail. Numerous strategies to form SLBs on different substrates, and the means to patteren them, are described. The use of SLBs as model membranes for the study of membrane organization and membrane processes in vitro is highlighted. In addition, the use of SLBs as a substratum for cell analysis is presented, with discrimination between cell?cell and cell?extracellular matrix (ECM) mimicry. The study is concluded with a discussion of the potential for in vivo applications of SLBs.
ER  - 

AU  - Hasday, Jeffrey D.
AU  - Thompson, Christopher
AU  - Singh, Ishwar S.
C7  - pp. 109-148
TI  - Fever, Immunity, and Molecular Adaptations
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cphy.c130019
DO  - doi:10.1002/cphy.c130019
SP  - 109-148
PY  - 2015
AB  - AbstractThe heat shock response (HSR) is an ancient and highly conserved process that is essential for coping with environmental stresses, including extremes of temperature. Fever is a more recently evolved response, during which organisms temporarily subject themselves to thermal stress in the face of infections. We review the phylogenetically conserved mechanisms that regulate fever and discuss the effects that febrile-range temperatures have on multiple biological processes involved in host defense and cell death and survival, including the HSR and its implications for patients with severe sepsis, trauma, and other acute systemic inflammatory states. Heat shock factor-1, a heat-induced transcriptional enhancer is not only the central regulator of the HSR but also regulates expression of pivotal cytokines and early response genes. Febrile-range temperatures exert additional immunomodulatory effects by activating mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades and accelerating apoptosis in some cell types. This results in accelerated pathogen clearance, but increased collateral tissue injury, thus the net effect of exposure to febrile range temperature depends in part on the site and nature of the pathologic process and the specific treatment provided. ? 2014 American Physiological Society. Compr Physiol 4:109-148, 2014.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Evers, Lars H.
AU  - Bhavsar, Dhaval
AU  - Mailänder, Peter
TI  - The biology of burn injury
JO  - Experimental Dermatology
VL  - 19
IS  - 9
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0625.2010.01105.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0625.2010.01105.x
SP  - 777
EP  - 783
KW  - apoptosis
KW  - burn injury
KW  - wound healing
KW  - zone of stasis
PY  - 2010
AB  - Please cite this paper as: The biology of burn injury. Experimental Dermatology 2010; 19: 777?783. Abstract:? Burn injury is a complex traumatic event with various local and systemic effects, affecting several organ systems beyond the skin. The pathophysiology of the burn patient shows the full spectrum of the complexity of inflammatory response reactions. In the acute phase, inflammation mechanism may have negative effects because of capillary leak, the propagation of inhalation injury and the development of multiple organ failure. Attempts to mediate these processes remain a central subject of burn care research. Conversely, inflammation is a necessary prologue and component in the later-stage processes of wound healing. In this review, we are attempting to present the current science of burn wound pathophysiology and wound healing. We also describe the evolution of innovative strategies for burn management.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sonar, Sandip Ashok
AU  - Lal, Girdhari
TI  - Blood–brain barrier and its function during inflammation and autoimmunity
JO  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
JA  - J Leukoc Biol
VL  - 103
IS  - 5
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/JLB.1RU1117-428R
DO  - doi:10.1002/JLB.1RU1117-428R
SP  - 839
EP  - 853
KW  - autoimmunity
KW  - blood–brain barriers
KW  - CNS
KW  - endothelial cells
KW  - neuroinflammation
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract The blood?brain barrier (BBB) is an important physiologic barrier that separates CNS from soluble inflammatory mediators and effector immune cells from peripheral circulation. The optimum function of the BBB is necessary for the homeostasis, maintenance, and proper neuronal function. The clinical and experimental findings have shown that BBB dysfunction is an early hallmark of various neurologic disorders ranging from inflammatory autoimmune, neurodegenerative, and traumatic diseases to neuroinvasive infections. Significant progress has been made in the understanding of the regulation of BBB function under homeostatic and neuroinflammatory conditions. Several neurologic disease-modifying drugs have shown to improve the BBB function. However, they have a broad-acting immunomodulatory function and can increase the risk of life-threatening infections. The recent development of in vitro multicomponent 3-dimensional BBB models coupled with fluidics chamber as well as a cell-type specific reporter and knockout mice gave a new boost to our understanding of the dynamics of the BBB. In the review, we discuss the current understanding of BBB composition and recent findings that illustrate the critical regulatory elements of the BBB function under physiologic and inflammatory conditions, and also suggested the strategies to control BBB structure and function.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cossarizza, Andrea
AU  - Chang, Hyun-Dong
AU  - Radbruch, Andreas
AU  - Acs, Andreas
AU  - Adam, Dieter
AU  - Adam-Klages, Sabine
AU  - Agace, William W.
AU  - Aghaeepour, Nima
AU  - Akdis, Mübeccel
AU  - Allez, Matthieu
AU  - Almeida, Larissa Nogueira
AU  - Alvisi, Giorgia
AU  - Anderson, Graham
AU  - Andrä, Immanuel
AU  - Annunziato, Francesco
AU  - Anselmo, Achille
AU  - Bacher, Petra
AU  - Baldari, Cosima T.
AU  - Bari, Sudipto
AU  - Barnaba, Vincenzo
AU  - Barros-Martins, Joana
AU  - Battistini, Luca
AU  - Bauer, Wolfgang
AU  - Baumgart, Sabine
AU  - Baumgarth, Nicole
AU  - Baumjohann, Dirk
AU  - Baying, Bianka
AU  - Bebawy, Mary
AU  - Becher, Burkhard
AU  - Beisker, Wolfgang
AU  - Benes, Vladimir
AU  - Beyaert, Rudi
AU  - Blanco, Alfonso
AU  - Boardman, Dominic A.
AU  - Bogdan, Christian
AU  - Borger, Jessica G.
AU  - Borsellino, Giovanna
AU  - Boulais, Philip E.
AU  - Bradford, Jolene A.
AU  - Brenner, Dirk
AU  - Brinkman, Ryan R.
AU  - Brooks, Anna E. S.
AU  - Busch, Dirk H.
AU  - Büscher, Martin
AU  - Bushnell, Timothy P.
AU  - Calzetti, Federica
AU  - Cameron, Garth
AU  - Cammarata, Ilenia
AU  - Cao, Xuetao
AU  - Cardell, Susanna L.
AU  - Casola, Stefano
AU  - Cassatella, Marco A.
AU  - Cavani, Andrea
AU  - Celada, Antonio
AU  - Chatenoud, Lucienne
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Pratip K.
AU  - Chow, Sue
AU  - Christakou, Eleni
AU  - Čičin-Šain, Luka
AU  - Clerici, Mario
AU  - Colombo, Federico S.
AU  - Cook, Laura
AU  - Cooke, Anne
AU  - Cooper, Andrea M.
AU  - Corbett, Alexandra J.
AU  - Cosma, Antonio
AU  - Cosmi, Lorenzo
AU  - Coulie, Pierre G.
AU  - Cumano, Ana
AU  - Cvetkovic, Ljiljana
AU  - Dang, Van Duc
AU  - Dang-Heine, Chantip
AU  - Davey, Martin S.
AU  - Davies, Derek
AU  - De Biasi, Sara
AU  - Del Zotto, Genny
AU  - Dela Cruz, Gelo Victoriano
AU  - Delacher, Michael
AU  - Della Bella, Silvia
AU  - Dellabona, Paolo
AU  - Deniz, Günnur
AU  - Dessing, Mark
AU  - Di Santo, James P.
AU  - Diefenbach, Andreas
AU  - Dieli, Francesco
AU  - Dolf, Andreas
AU  - Dörner, Thomas
AU  - Dress, Regine J.
AU  - Dudziak, Diana
AU  - Dustin, Michael
AU  - Dutertre, Charles-Antoine
AU  - Ebner, Friederike
AU  - Eckle, Sidonia B. G.
AU  - Edinger, Matthias
AU  - Eede, Pascale
AU  - Ehrhardt, Götz R.A.
AU  - Eich, Marcus
AU  - Engel, Pablo
AU  - Engelhardt, Britta
AU  - Erdei, Anna
AU  - Esser, Charlotte
AU  - Everts, Bart
AU  - Evrard, Maximilien
AU  - Falk, Christine S.
AU  - Fehniger, Todd A.
AU  - Felipo-Benavent, Mar
AU  - Ferry, Helen
AU  - Feuerer, Markus
AU  - Filby, Andrew
AU  - Filkor, Kata
AU  - Fillatreau, Simon
AU  - Follo, Marie
AU  - Förster, Irmgard
AU  - Foster, John
AU  - Foulds, Gemma A.
AU  - Frehse, Britta
AU  - Frenette, Paul S.
AU  - Frischbutter, Stefan
AU  - Fritzsche, Wolfgang
AU  - Galbraith, David W.
AU  - Gangaev, Anastasia
AU  - Garbi, Natalio
AU  - Gaudilliere, Brice
AU  - Gazzinelli, Ricardo T.
AU  - Geginat, Jens
AU  - Gerner, Wilhelm
AU  - Gherardin, Nicholas A.
AU  - Ghoreschi, Kamran
AU  - Gibellini, Lara
AU  - Ginhoux, Florent
AU  - Goda, Keisuke
AU  - Godfrey, Dale I.
AU  - Goettlinger, Christoph
AU  - González-Navajas, Jose M.
AU  - Goodyear, Carl S.
AU  - Gori, Andrea
AU  - Grogan, Jane L.
AU  - Grummitt, Daryl
AU  - Grützkau, Andreas
AU  - Haftmann, Claudia
AU  - Hahn, Jonas
AU  - Hammad, Hamida
AU  - Hämmerling, Günter
AU  - Hansmann, Leo
AU  - Hansson, Goran
AU  - Harpur, Christopher M.
AU  - Hartmann, Susanne
AU  - Hauser, Andrea
AU  - Hauser, Anja E.
AU  - Haviland, David L.
AU  - Hedley, David
AU  - Hernández, Daniela C.
AU  - Herrera, Guadalupe
AU  - Herrmann, Martin
AU  - Hess, Christoph
AU  - Höfer, Thomas
AU  - Hoffmann, Petra
AU  - Hogquist, Kristin
AU  - Holland, Tristan
AU  - Höllt, Thomas
AU  - Holmdahl, Rikard
AU  - Hombrink, Pleun
AU  - Houston, Jessica P.
AU  - Hoyer, Bimba F.
AU  - Huang, Bo
AU  - Huang, Fang-Ping
AU  - Huber, Johanna E.
AU  - Huehn, Jochen
AU  - Hundemer, Michael
AU  - Hunter, Christopher A.
AU  - Hwang, William Y. K.
AU  - Iannone, Anna
AU  - Ingelfinger, Florian
AU  - Ivison, Sabine M
AU  - Jäck, Hans-Martin
AU  - Jani, Peter K.
AU  - Jávega, Beatriz
AU  - Jonjic, Stipan
AU  - Kaiser, Toralf
AU  - Kalina, Tomas
AU  - Kamradt, Thomas
AU  - Kaufmann, Stefan H. E.
AU  - Keller, Baerbel
AU  - Ketelaars, Steven L. C.
AU  - Khalilnezhad, Ahad
AU  - Khan, Srijit
AU  - Kisielow, Jan
AU  - Klenerman, Paul
AU  - Knopf, Jasmin
AU  - Koay, Hui-Fern
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Kolls, Jay K.
AU  - Kong, Wan Ting
AU  - Kopf, Manfred
AU  - Korn, Thomas
AU  - Kriegsmann, Katharina
AU  - Kristyanto, Hendy
AU  - Kroneis, Thomas
AU  - Krueger, Andreas
AU  - Kühne, Jenny
AU  - Kukat, Christian
AU  - Kunkel, Désirée
AU  - Kunze-Schumacher, Heike
AU  - Kurosaki, Tomohiro
AU  - Kurts, Christian
AU  - Kvistborg, Pia
AU  - Kwok, Immanuel
AU  - Landry, Jonathan
AU  - Lantz, Olivier
AU  - Lanuti, Paola
AU  - LaRosa, Francesca
AU  - Lehuen, Agnès
AU  - LeibundGut-Landmann, Salomé
AU  - Leipold, Michael D.
AU  - Leung, Leslie Y.T.
AU  - Levings, Megan K.
AU  - Lino, Andreia C.
AU  - Liotta, Francesco
AU  - Litwin, Virginia
AU  - Liu, Yanling
AU  - Ljunggren, Hans-Gustaf
AU  - Lohoff, Michael
AU  - Lombardi, Giovanna
AU  - Lopez, Lilly
AU  - López-Botet, Miguel
AU  - Lovett-Racke, Amy E.
AU  - Lubberts, Erik
AU  - Luche, Herve
AU  - Ludewig, Burkhard
AU  - Lugli, Enrico
AU  - Lunemann, Sebastian
AU  - Maecker, Holden T.
AU  - Maggi, Laura
AU  - Maguire, Orla
AU  - Mair, Florian
AU  - Mair, Kerstin H.
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
AU  - Manz, Rudolf A.
AU  - Marshall, Aaron J.
AU  - Martínez-Romero, Alicia
AU  - Martrus, Glòria
AU  - Marventano, Ivana
AU  - Maslinski, Wlodzimierz
AU  - Matarese, Giuseppe
AU  - Mattioli, Anna Vittoria
AU  - Maueröder, Christian
AU  - Mazzoni, Alessio
AU  - McCluskey, James
AU  - McGrath, Mairi
AU  - McGuire, Helen M.
AU  - McInnes, Iain B.
AU  - Mei, Henrik E.
AU  - Melchers, Fritz
AU  - Melzer, Susanne
AU  - Mielenz, Dirk
AU  - Miller, Stephen D.
AU  - Mills, Kingston H.G.
AU  - Minderman, Hans
AU  - Mjösberg, Jenny
AU  - Moore, Jonni
AU  - Moran, Barry
AU  - Moretta, Lorenzo
AU  - Mosmann, Tim R.
AU  - Müller, Susann
AU  - Multhoff, Gabriele
AU  - Muñoz, Luis Enrique
AU  - Münz, Christian
AU  - Nakayama, Toshinori
AU  - Nasi, Milena
AU  - Neumann, Katrin
AU  - Ng, Lai Guan
AU  - Niedobitek, Antonia
AU  - Nourshargh, Sussan
AU  - Núñez, Gabriel
AU  - O'Connor, José-Enrique
AU  - Ochel, Aaron
AU  - Oja, Anna
AU  - Ordonez, Diana
AU  - Orfao, Alberto
AU  - Orlowski-Oliver, Eva
AU  - Ouyang, Wenjun
AU  - Oxenius, Annette
AU  - Palankar, Raghavendra
AU  - Panse, Isabel
AU  - Pattanapanyasat, Kovit
AU  - Paulsen, Malte
AU  - Pavlinic, Dinko
AU  - Penter, Livius
AU  - Peterson, Pärt
AU  - Peth, Christian
AU  - Petriz, Jordi
AU  - Piancone, Federica
AU  - Pickl, Winfried F.
AU  - Piconese, Silvia
AU  - Pinti, Marcello
AU  - Pockley, A. Graham
AU  - Podolska, Malgorzata Justyna
AU  - Poon, Zhiyong
AU  - Pracht, Katharina
AU  - Prinz, Immo
AU  - Pucillo, Carlo E. M.
AU  - Quataert, Sally A.
AU  - Quatrini, Linda
AU  - Quinn, Kylie M.
AU  - Radbruch, Helena
AU  - Radstake, Tim R. D. J.
AU  - Rahmig, Susann
AU  - Rahn, Hans-Peter
AU  - Rajwa, Bartek
AU  - Ravichandran, Gevitha
AU  - Raz, Yotam
AU  - Rebhahn, Jonathan A.
AU  - Recktenwald, Diether
AU  - Reimer, Dorothea
AU  - Reis e Sousa, Caetano
AU  - Remmerswaal, Ester B.M.
AU  - Richter, Lisa
AU  - Rico, Laura G.
AU  - Riddell, Andy
AU  - Rieger, Aja M.
AU  - Robinson, J. Paul
AU  - Romagnani, Chiara
AU  - Rubartelli, Anna
AU  - Ruland, Jürgen
AU  - Saalmüller, Armin
AU  - Saeys, Yvan
AU  - Saito, Takashi
AU  - Sakaguchi, Shimon
AU  - Sala-de-Oyanguren, Francisco
AU  - Samstag, Yvonne
AU  - Sanderson, Sharon
AU  - Sandrock, Inga
AU  - Santoni, Angela
AU  - Sanz, Ramon Bellmàs
AU  - Saresella, Marina
AU  - Sautes-Fridman, Catherine
AU  - Sawitzki, Birgit
AU  - Schadt, Linda
AU  - Scheffold, Alexander
AU  - Scherer, Hans U.
AU  - Schiemann, Matthias
AU  - Schildberg, Frank A.
AU  - Schimisky, Esther
AU  - Schlitzer, Andreas
AU  - Schlosser, Josephine
AU  - Schmid, Stephan
AU  - Schmitt, Steffen
AU  - Schober, Kilian
AU  - Schraivogel, Daniel
AU  - Schuh, Wolfgang
AU  - Schüler, Thomas
AU  - Schulte, Reiner
AU  - Schulz, Axel Ronald
AU  - Schulz, Sebastian R.
AU  - Scottá, Cristiano
AU  - Scott-Algara, Daniel
AU  - Sester, David P.
AU  - Shankey, T. Vincent
AU  - Silva-Santos, Bruno
AU  - Simon, Anna Katharina
AU  - Sitnik, Katarzyna M.
AU  - Sozzani, Silvano
AU  - Speiser, Daniel E.
AU  - Spidlen, Josef
AU  - Stahlberg, Anders
AU  - Stall, Alan M.
AU  - Stanley, Natalie
AU  - Stark, Regina
AU  - Stehle, Christina
AU  - Steinmetz, Tobit
AU  - Stockinger, Hannes
AU  - Takahama, Yousuke
AU  - Takeda, Kiyoshi
AU  - Tan, Leonard
AU  - Tárnok, Attila
AU  - Tiegs, Gisa
AU  - Toldi, Gergely
AU  - Tornack, Julia
AU  - Traggiai, Elisabetta
AU  - Trebak, Mohamed
AU  - Tree, Timothy I.M.
AU  - Trotter, Joe
AU  - Trowsdale, John
AU  - Tsoumakidou, Maria
AU  - Ulrich, Henning
AU  - Urbanczyk, Sophia
AU  - van de Veen, Willem
AU  - van den Broek, Maries
AU  - van der Pol, Edwin
AU  - Van Gassen, Sofie
AU  - Van Isterdael, Gert
AU  - van Lier, René A.W.
AU  - Veldhoen, Marc
AU  - Vento-Asturias, Salvador
AU  - Vieira, Paulo
AU  - Voehringer, David
AU  - Volk, Hans-Dieter
AU  - von Borstel, Anouk
AU  - von Volkmann, Konrad
AU  - Waisman, Ari
AU  - Walker, Rachael V.
AU  - Wallace, Paul K.
AU  - Wang, Sa A.
AU  - Wang, Xin M.
AU  - Ward, Michael D.
AU  - Ward-Hartstonge, Kirsten A
AU  - Warnatz, Klaus
AU  - Warnes, Gary
AU  - Warth, Sarah
AU  - Waskow, Claudia
AU  - Watson, James V.
AU  - Watzl, Carsten
AU  - Wegener, Leonie
AU  - Weisenburger, Thomas
AU  - Wiedemann, Annika
AU  - Wienands, Jürgen
AU  - Wilharm, Anneke
AU  - Wilkinson, Robert John
AU  - Willimsky, Gerald
AU  - Wing, James B.
AU  - Winkelmann, Rieke
AU  - Winkler, Thomas H.
AU  - Wirz, Oliver F.
AU  - Wong, Alicia
AU  - Wurst, Peter
AU  - Yang, Jennie H. M.
AU  - Yang, Juhao
AU  - Yazdanbakhsh, Maria
AU  - Yu, Liping
AU  - Yue, Alice
AU  - Zhang, Hanlin
AU  - Zhao, Yi
AU  - Ziegler, Susanne Maria
AU  - Zielinski, Christina
AU  - Zimmermann, Jakob
AU  - Zychlinsky, Arturo
TI  - Guidelines for the use of flow cytometry and cell sorting in immunological studies (second edition)
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 10
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201970107
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201970107
SP  - 1457
EP  - 1973
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract These guidelines are a consensus work of a considerable number of members of the immunology and flow cytometry community. They provide the theory and key practical aspects of flow cytometry enabling immunologists to avoid the common errors that often undermine immunological data. Notably, there are comprehensive sections of all major immune cell types with helpful Tables detailing phenotypes in murine and human cells. The latest flow cytometry techniques and applications are also described, featuring examples of the data that can be generated and, importantly, how the data can be analysed. Furthermore, there are sections detailing tips, tricks and pitfalls to avoid, all written and peer-reviewed by leading experts in the field, making this an essential research companion.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts
JO  - Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology
JA  - Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology
VL  - 31
IS  - S3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jgh.13540
DO  - doi:10.1111/jgh.13540
SP  - 7
EP  - 441
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Qian, Yun
AU  - Song, Jialin
AU  - Zhao, Xiaotian
AU  - Chen, Wei
AU  - Ouyang, Yuanming
AU  - Yuan, Weien
AU  - Fan, Cunyi
C7  - 1700499
TI  - 3D Fabrication with Integration Molding of a Graphene Oxide/Polycaprolactone Nanoscaffold for Neurite Regeneration and Angiogenesis
JO  - Advanced Science
JA  - Adv. Sci.
VL  - 5
IS  - 4
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.201700499
DO  - doi:10.1002/advs.201700499
SP  - 1700499
KW  - graphene oxide
KW  - nerve conduits
KW  - peripheral nerve injuries
KW  - signaling pathways
KW  - vascular endothelial growth factor
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Treating peripheral nerve injury faces major challenges and may benefit from bioactive scaffolds due to the limited autograft resources. Graphene oxide (GO) has emerged as a promising nanomaterial with excellent physical and chemical properties. GO has functional groups that confer biocompatibility that is better than that of graphene. Here, GO/polycaprolactone (PCL) nanoscaffolds are fabricated using an integration molding method. The nanoscaffolds exhibit many merits, including even GO nanoparticle distribution, macroporous structure, and strong mechanical support. Additionally, the process enables excellent quality control. In vitro studies confirm the advantages of the GO/PCL nanoscaffolds in terms of Schwann cell proliferation, viability, and attachment, as well as neural characteristics maintenance. This is the first study to evaluate the in vivo performance of GO-based nanoscaffolds in this context. GO release and PCL biodegradation is analyzed after long-term in vivo study. It is also found that the GO/PCL nerve guidance conduit could successfully repair a 15 mm sciatic nerve defect. The pro-angiogenic characteristic of GO is evaluated in vivo using immunohistochemistry. In addition, the AKT-endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS)-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathway might play a major role in the angiogenic process. These findings demonstrate that the GO/PCL nanoscaffold efficiently promotes functional and morphological recovery in peripheral nerve regeneration, indicating its promise for tissue engineering applications.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vogel, Georg F.
AU  - Ebner, Hannes L.
AU  - de Araujo, Mariana E. G.
AU  - Schmiedinger, Thomas
AU  - Eiter, Oliver
AU  - Pircher, Haymo
AU  - Gutleben, Karin
AU  - Witting, Barbara
AU  - Teis, David
AU  - Huber, Lukas A.
AU  - Hess, Michael W.
TI  - Ultrastructural Morphometry Points to a New Role for LAMTOR2 in Regulating the Endo/Lysosomal System
JO  - Traffic
JA  - Traffic
VL  - 16
IS  - 6
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tra.12271
DO  - doi:10.1111/tra.12271
SP  - 617
EP  - 634
KW  - electron tomography
KW  - endosome
KW  - high-pressure freezing
KW  - immuno-gold
KW  - LAMTOR
KW  - MAPK
KW  - mTOR
KW  - MVB
KW  - p14
KW  - Ragulator
PY  - 2015
AB  - The late endosomal adaptor protein LAMTOR2/p14 is essential for tissue homeostasis by controlling MAPK and mTOR signaling, which in turn regulate cell growth and proliferation, migration and spreading. Moreover, LAMTOR2 critically controls architecture and function of the endocytic system, including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) degradation in lysosomes, positioning of late endosomes and defense against intracellular pathogens. Here we describe the multifaceted ultrastructural phenotype of the endo/lysosomal system of LAMTOR2-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Quantitative (immuno-)electron microscopy of cryo-fixed samples revealed significantly reduced numbers of recycling tubules emanating from maturing multivesicular bodies (MVB). Instead, a distinct halo of vesicles surrounded MVB, tentatively interpreted as detached, jammed recycling tubules. These morphological changes in LAMTOR2-deficient cells correlated with the presence of growth factors (e.g. EGF), but were similarly induced in control cells by inactivating mTOR. Furthermore, proper transferrin receptor trafficking and recycling were apparently dependent on an intact LAMTOR complex. Finally, a severe imbalance in the relative proportions of endo/lysosomes was found in LAMTOR2-deficient cells, resulting from increased amounts of mature MVB and (autophago)lysosomes. These observations suggest that the LAMTOR/Ragulator complex is required not only for maintaining the homeostasis of endo/lysosomal subpopulations but also contributes to the proper formation of MVB-recycling tubules, and regulation of membrane/cargo recycling from MVB.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - ARA Oral Abstracts
JO  - Internal Medicine Journal
JA  - Intern Med J
VL  - 48
IS  - S4
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imj.13772
DO  - doi:10.1111/imj.13772
SP  - 5
EP  - 46
PY  - 2018
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - FREE ORALS: BILIARY
JO  - HPB
VL  - 14
IS  - s2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1477-2574.2012.00511.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1477-2574.2012.00511.x
SP  - 107
EP  - 287
PY  - 2012
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gaballah, K
AU  - Costea, DE
AU  - Hills, A
AU  - Gollin, SM
AU  - Harrison, P
AU  - Partridge, M
TI  - Tissue engineering of oral dysplasia
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 215
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.2360
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.2360
SP  - 280
EP  - 289
KW  - dysplasia
KW  - pre-cancer
KW  - organotypic culture
KW  - epithelial–connective tissue interaction tissue engineering
KW  - epithelial–mesenchymal interaction
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Keratinocytes and fibroblasts isolated from dysplastic oral lesions were combined to provide a renewable source of epithelia. A dysplasia-scoring index was devised to compare the architectural and cytological features and used together with robust immunophenotyping to show that the engineered epithelia showed most of the characteriztics of the clinical lesions. The strains of dysplastic oral keratinocytes with an extended or immortal lifespan provided a reproducible resource of epithelia showing mild (DOK), moderate (POE9n) or severe (D20) dysplasia when maintained under defined conditions. The dysplasia score was influenced by growth conditions, with KGF polarizing proliferation to the basal layer and reducing the severity of dysplasia. When compared to the normal counterparts, dysplasia-associated fibroblasts expressed MMP9, secreted more HGF, increased the dysplasia score for epithelia generated with mortal dysplastic keratinocytes and induced morphological changes in normal keratinocytes, highlighting the role of the microenvironment in determining the phenotype of dysplastic epithelia. Copyright ? 2008 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - DiFeo, Analisa
AU  - Narla, Goutham
AU  - Martignetti, John A.
TI  - Emerging Roles of Kruppel-Like Factor 6 and Kruppel-Like Factor 6 Splice Variant 1 in Ovarian Cancer Progression and Treatment
JO  - Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine: A Journal of Translational and Personalized Medicine
JA  - Mt Sinai J Med
VL  - 76
IS  - 6
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/msj.20150
DO  - doi:10.1002/msj.20150
SP  - 557
EP  - 566
KW  - Kruppel-like factor 6
KW  - Kruppel-like factor 6 splice variant 1
KW  - molecular pathogenesis
KW  - ovarian cancer
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Epithelial ovarian cancer is one of the most lethal gynecologic cancers and the fifth most frequent cause of female cancer deaths in the United States. Despite dramatic treatment successes in other cancers through the use of molecular agents targeted against genetically defined events driving cancer development and progression, very few insights into epithelial ovarian cancer have been translated from the laboratory to the clinic. If advances are to be made in the early diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of this disease, it will be critical to characterize the common and private (personalized) genetic defects underlying the development and spread of epithelial ovarian cancer. The tumor suppressor Kruppel-like factor 6 and its alternatively spliced, oncogenic isoform, Kruppel-like factor 6 splice variant 1, are members of the Kruppel-like zinc finger transcription factor family of proteins, which have diverse roles in cellular differentiation, development, proliferation, growth-related signal transduction, and apoptosis. Inactivation of Kruppel-like factor 6 and overexpression of Kruppel-like factor 6 splice variant 1 have been associated with the progression of a number of human cancers and even with patient survival. This article summarizes our recent findings demonstrating that a majority of epithelial ovarian cancer tumors have Kruppel-like factor 6 allelic loss and decreased expression coupled with increased expression of Kruppel-like factor 6 splice variant 1. The targeted reduction of Kruppel-like factor 6 in ovarian cancer cell lines results in marked increases in cell proliferation, invasion, tumor growth, angiogenesis, and intraperitoneal dissemination in vivo. In contrast, the inhibition of Kruppel-like factor 6 splice variant 1 decreases cellular proliferation, invasion, angiogenesis, and tumorigenicity; this provides the rationale for its potential therapeutic application. These results and our recent demonstration that the inhibition of Kruppel-like factor 6 splice variant 1 can dramatically prolong survival in a preclinical mouse model of ovarian cancer are reviewed and discussed. Mt Sinai J Med 76:557-566, 2009. ? 2009 Mount Sinai School of Medicine
ER  - 
