
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Franceschi, Vincent R.
AU  - Krekling, Trygve
AU  - Christiansen, Erik
TI  - Application of methyl jasmonate on Picea abies (Pinaceae) stems induces defense-related responses in phloem and xylem
JO  - American Journal of Botany
JA  - Am. J. Bot.
VL  - 89
IS  - 4
SN  - 0002-9122
UR  - https://doi.org/10.3732/ajb.89.4.578
DO  - doi:10.3732/ajb.89.4.578
SP  - 578
EP  - 586
KW  - bark
KW  - conifer
KW  - methyl jasmonate
KW  - phenolics
KW  - phloem
KW  - Picea abies
KW  - Pinaceae
KW  - plant defense
KW  - resin ducts
KW  - xylem
PY  - 2002
AB  - Application of 100 mmol/L methyl jasmonate (MJ) to the intact bark of 30-yr-old Norway spruce induced anatomical reactions related to defense. Within 30 d, a single MJ treatment induced swelling of existing polyphenolic parenchyma cells (PP cells) and an increase in their phenolic contents and formation of additional PP cells and of traumatic resin ducts (TDs) at the cambial zone. These changes occurred up to 7 cm away from the application zone. Treatment enhanced resin flow and increased resistance to the blue-stain fungus, Ceratocystis polonica. Methyl jasmonate application to the oldest internode of 2-yr-old saplings also induced TD formation, and, more surprisingly, TDs were formed in the untreated internode. Traumatic ducts were not formed in branches, ruling out an effect of volatile MJ on the upper internode. Methyl jasmonate application never gave rise to a hypersensitive response, cell death, tissue necrosis, or wound periderm, indicating the amount of MJ transported across the periderm was very low relative to the application concentration. This is the first report of a single compound giving rise to major cellular features related to acquired resistance and previously shown to be induced by wounding, fungal infection, and bark beetles in Norway spruce.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Marom, Ronit
AU  - Lee, Yi-Chien
AU  - Grafe, Ingo
AU  - Lee, Brendan
TI  - Pharmacological and biological therapeutic strategies for osteogenesis imperfecta
JO  - American Journal of Medical Genetics Part C: Seminars in Medical Genetics
JA  - Am. J. Med. Genet.
VL  - 172
IS  - 4
SN  - 1552-4868
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.c.31532
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajmg.c.31532
SP  - 367
EP  - 383
KW  - osteogenesis imperfecta
KW  - therapy
PY  - 2016
AB  - Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a connective tissue disorder characterized by bone fragility, low bone mass, and bone deformities. The majority of cases are caused by autosomal dominant pathogenic variants in the COL1A1 and COL1A2 genes that encode type I collagen, the major component of the bone matrix. The remaining cases are caused by autosomal recessively or dominantly inherited mutations in genes that are involved in the post-translational modification of type I collagen, act as type I collagen chaperones, or are members of the signaling pathways that regulate bone homeostasis. The main goals of treatment in OI are to decrease fracture incidence, relieve bone pain, and promote mobility and growth. This requires a multi-disciplinary approach, utilizing pharmacological interventions, physical therapy, orthopedic surgery, and monitoring nutrition with appropriate calcium and vitamin D supplementation. Bisphosphonate therapy, which has become the mainstay of treatment in OI, has proven beneficial in increasing bone mass, and to some extent reducing fracture risk. However, the response to treatment is not as robust as is seen in osteoporosis, and it seems less effective in certain types of OI, and in adult OI patients as compared to most pediatric cases. New pharmacological treatments are currently being developed, including anti-resorptive agents, anabolic treatment, and gene- and cell-therapy approaches. These therapies are under different stages of investigation from the bench-side, to pre-clinical and clinical trials. In this review, we will summarize the recent findings regarding the pharmacological and biological strategies for the treatment of patients with OI. ? 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schuller, S.
AU  - Francey, T.
AU  - Hartmann, K.
AU  - Hugonnard, M.
AU  - Kohn, B.
AU  - Nally, J. E.
AU  - Sykes, J.
TI  - European consensus statement on leptospirosis in dogs and cats
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 56
IS  - 3
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12328
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12328
SP  - 159
EP  - 179
PY  - 2015
AB  - Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease with a worldwide distribution affecting most mammalian species. Clinical leptospirosis is common in dogs but appears to be rare in cats. Both dogs and cats, however, can shed leptospires in the urine. This is problematic as it can lead to exposure of humans. The control of leptospirosis, therefore, is important not only from an animal but also from a public health perspective. The aim of this consensus statement is to raise awareness of leptospirosis and to outline the current knowledge on the epidemiology, clinical features, diagnostic tools, prevention and treatment measures relevant to canine and feline leptospirosis in Europe.
ER  - 

AU  - Walton, Thomas J.
AU  - Mann, Gurminder S.
C7  - pp. 125-135
TI  - Emergency Urology
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444315172.ch21
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444315172.ch21
SP  - 125-135
KW  - urology
KW  - emergency urology
KW  - ureteric colic - urolithiasis representing commonest cause of acute ureteric colic
KW  - ureteric colic - presenting with acute severe loin pain
KW  - Acute urinary retention (AUR) - common male urological emergency, inability to pass urine
KW  - urinary tract infection (UTI) - infective conditions as urological emergencies
KW  - acute pyelonephritis, acute inflammation of renal parenchyma and renal pelvis
KW  - penoscrotal emergencies
KW  - paraphimosis, a tight foreskin (phimosis) retracts over glans penis, and is not replaced
KW  - AAST renal injury grading scale
PY  - 2015
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction Ureteric colic Acute urinary retention Urinary tract infection Penoscrotal emergencies Genitourinary trauma Ureteric trauma Bladder trauma Urethral trauma External genital trauma Further reading
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - EFSA Panel on Biological Hazards (BIOHAZ)
C7  - 3265
TI  - Scientific Opinion on the public health hazards to be covered by inspection of meat from sheep and goats
JO  - EFSA Journal
JA  - EFSA Journal
VL  - 11
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2903/j.efsa.2013.3265
DO  - doi:10.2903/j.efsa.2013.3265
SP  - 3265
KW  - meat inspection
KW  - sheep
KW  - goats
KW  - slaughterhouse
KW  - surveillance
KW  - contaminants
KW  - residues
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract A risk ranking process identified Toxoplasma gondii and pathogenic verocytotoxin-producing Escherichia coli (VTEC) as the most relevant biological hazards for meat inspection of sheep and goats. As these are not detected by traditional meat inspection, a meat safety assurance system using risk-based interventions was proposed. Further studies are required on T. gondii and pathogenic VTEC. If new information confirms these hazards as a high risk to public health from meat from sheep or goats, setting targets at carcass level should be considered. Other elements of the system are risk-categorisation of flocks/herds based on improved Food Chain Information (FCI), classification of abattoirs according to their capability to reduce faecal contamination, and use of improved process hygiene criteria. It is proposed to omit palpation and incision from post-mortem inspection in animals subjected to routine slaughter. For chemical hazards, dioxins and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls were ranked as being of high potential concern. Monitoring programmes for chemical hazards should be more flexible and based on the risk of occurrence, taking into account FCI, which should be expanded to reflect the extensive production systems used, and the ranking of chemical substances, which should be regularly updated and include new hazards. Control programmes across the food chain, national residue control plans, feed control and monitoring of environmental contaminants should be better integrated. Meat inspection is a valuable tool for surveillance and monitoring of animal health and welfare conditions. Omission of palpation and incision would reduce detection effectiveness for tuberculosis and fasciolosis at animal level. Surveillance of tuberculosis at the slaughterhouse in small ruminants should be improved and encouraged, as this is in practice the only surveillance system available. Extended use of FCI could compensate for some, but not all, the information on animal health and welfare lost if only visual post-mortem inspection is applied.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bohorquez, H. E.
AU  - Chamorro, N.
AU  - Garces, J.
AU  - Cohen, A. J.
AU  - Reichman, T. W.
AU  - Davis, N. K.
AU  - Vincent, B.
AU  - Bruce, D. A.
AU  - Carmody, I. C.
AU  - Moiz, A
AU  - Staffeld, C.
AU  - Loss, G. E.
TI  - Calciphylaxis in Simultaneous Liver–Kidney Transplantation
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 15
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.13082
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.13082
SP  - 1105
EP  - 1109
KW  - Clinical research
KW  - complication: medical
KW  - dysfunction
KW  - hepatology
KW  - kidney transplantation
KW  - liver allograft function
KW  - liver transplantation
KW  - metabolic
KW  - nephrology
KW  - practice
PY  - 2015
AB  - We present four patients who underwent simultaneous liver?kidney transplantation (SLK) and were diagnosed with calciphylaxis, also known as calcific uremic arteriolopathy (CUA). Common characteristics included high MELD scores (mean 35.2?±?4.8) and advanced renal disease (duration range 6?44 weeks). CUA was diagnosed within the first 2 months post-SLK based on clinical features. Severe morbidity and prolonged hospital stay were observed and one of the patients died secondary to sepsis. Treatment included metabolic support, wound care, calcium level correction and use of sodium thiosulphate. CUA should be considered in the presence of painful dermatologic changes in patients status post SLK.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ruocco, Eleonora
AU  - Gambardella, Alessio
AU  - Langella, Giovanni Giuseppe
AU  - Lo Schiavo, Ada
AU  - Ruocco, Vincenzo
TI  - Cutaneous sarcoidosis: an intriguing model of immune dysregulation
JO  - International Journal of Dermatology
JA  - Int J Dermatol
VL  - 54
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ijd.12566
DO  - doi:10.1111/ijd.12566
SP  - 1
EP  - 12
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Sarcoidosis is a systemic granulomatous disease characterized by the presence of non-caseating granulomas. Its etiology remains obscure. A plausible hypothesis suggests that a complex interplay of host factors, infectious processes, and non-infectious environmental factors, matched with a susceptible genetic background, results in a pathway that leads to systemic granulomatous inflammation. Although presentations of sarcoidosis vary enormously, multi-organ involvement is a common feature. Cutaneous involvement occurs in about 25% of patients with protean manifestations and variable prognoses. Skin manifestations are divided into specific lesions with histopathologically evident non-caseating granulomas and nonspecific lesions arising from a reactive process that does not form granulomas. A peculiar form of cutaneous sarcoidosis is represented by sarcoidal lesions at sites of trauma that has caused scarring. The pathogenesis of scar sarcoidosis remains unknown. Scar sarcoidosis is also associated with herpes zoster infection, surgery, and tattooing. Such heterogeneous events, along with those at the sites of chronic lymphedema, thermal burns, radiation dermatitis, and vaccinations, occur on areas of vulnerable skin labeled ?immunocompromised districts?. Numerous options are available for the treatment of cutaneous sarcoidosis. Although corticosteroids remain the treatment of choice for initial systemic therapy, other nonsteroidal agents have proven effective and therefore useful for long-term management. Tumor necrosis factor-α antagonists such as infliximab may have a role in the treatment of cutaneous sarcoidosis, especially in refractory cases that are resistant to standard regimens. Elucidation of the relationship of sarcoidal granulomas with malignancy and immunity may facilitate a better understanding of some pathomechanisms operating in neoplastic and immunity-related disorders.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Martinez, Augusto Julio
AU  - Visvesvara, Govinda S.
TI  - Free-living, Amphizoic and Opportunistic Amebas
JO  - Brain Pathology
VL  - 7
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1750-3639.1997.tb01076.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1750-3639.1997.tb01076.x
SP  - 583
EP  - 598
PY  - 1997
AB  - Amebas belonging to the genera Naegleria, Acanthamoeba and Balamuthia are free-living, amphizoic and opportunistic protozoa that are ubiquitous in nature. These amebas are found in soil, water and air samples from all over the world. Human infection due to these amebas involving brain, skin, lung and eyes has increased significantly during the last 10 years. The epidemiology, immunology, protozoology, pathology, and clinical features of the infections produced by these protozoa differ strikingly. Infection by the pathogenic Naegleria fowleri is acquired by exposure to polluted water in ponds, swimming pools and man-made lakes. Raised temperatures during the hot summer months or warm water from power plants facilitate the growth of N. fowleri. N. fowleri is a thermophilic ameba that grows well in tropical and subtropical climates. The CNS infection, called Primary Amebic Meningoencephalitis (PAM), produced by N. fowleri is characterized by an acute fulminant meningoencephalitis leading to death 3?7 days after exposure. Victims are healthy, young individuals with a history of recent water-related sport activities. The portal of entry is the olfactory neuroepithelium. The pathologic changes are an acute hemorrhagic necrotizing meningoencephalitis with modest purulent exudate, mainly at the base of the brain, brainstem and cerebellum. Trophozoites can be seen within the CNS lesions located mainly around blood vessels. Thus far 179 cases have been reported; 81 in the USA alone. Balamuthia mandrillaris and several species of Acanthamoeba are pathogenic ?opportunistic? free-living amebas which cause Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE) in humans and animals. GAE is an infection, usually seen in debilitated, malnourished individuals, in patients undergoing immunosuppressive therapy for organ transplants and in Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). The granulomatous component is negligible, particularly in immunocompromised individuals. Pathologically these amebas produce a patchy, chronic or subacute granulomatous encephalitis with the presence of trophozoites and cysts. The portal of entry is probably through the respiratory tract or an ulceration of the skin reaching the CNS by hematogenous spread. As of October 1, 1996, 166 cases 1103 due to Acanthamoeba and 63 due to Balamothial of GAE have been reported from around the world. Of these 103 cases due to Acanthamoeba (72 have been reported in the USA alone, > 50 in AIDS). It is well known that several species of Acanthamoeba can also produce, chronic sight threatening ulceration of the cornea called Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK), mostly in contact lens wearers or in individuals with minor corneal abrasions. Hundreds of cases of AK have been documented world wide.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Miao, Pu
AU  - Feng, Jianhua
AU  - Guo, Yufan
AU  - Wang, Jianda
AU  - Xu, Xiaoxiao
AU  - Wang, Ye
AU  - Li, Yanfang
AU  - Gao, Liuyan
AU  - Zheng, Chaoguang
AU  - Cheng, Haiying
TI  - Genotype and phenotype analysis using an epilepsy-associated gene panel in Chinese pediatric epilepsy patients
JO  - Clinical Genetics
JA  - Clin Genet
VL  - 94
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cge.13441
DO  - doi:10.1111/cge.13441
SP  - 512
EP  - 520
KW  - epilepsy
KW  - phenotype
KW  - targeted next-generation sequencing
KW  - treatment
PY  - 2018
AB  - Epilepsy is a common and genetically heterogeneous disorder among children. Advances in next-generation sequencing have revealed that numerous epilepsy genes, helped us improve the understanding of mechanisms underlying epileptogenesis, and guided the development of treatments. We identified 39 candidate variants in 21 genes, including 37 that were pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics scoring system and two variants of uncertain significance that were considered causative after they were associated with clinical characteristics. Thirty were de novo variants (76.9%), and 20 variants had not previously been reported (51.3%). We obtained a diagnosis in 39 of the 141 probands (27.7%). The most frequently mutated gene was SCN1A; KCNQ2, KCNT1, PCDH19, STXBP1, SCN2A, TSC2, and PRRT2 were mutated in more than one individual; ANKRD11, CDKL5, DCX, DEPDC5, GABRB3, GRIN2A, IQSEC2, KCNA2, KCNB1, KCNJ6, TSC1, SCN9A, and SCN1B were mutated in a single individual. In addition, we detected a nonsense variant in a candidate gene KCND1 and considered it as a new candidate epilepsy gene, which needed further functional study. Consequently, large number of unreported variants were detected, diverse phenotypes were associated with known epilepsy genes. Changes in clinical management beyond genetic counseling were suggested.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Winckworth, Lucinda C
AU  - McLaren, Emma
AU  - Lingeswaran, Arvin
AU  - Kelsey, Michael
C8  - JPC-2015-0527.R1
TI  - Neonatal resuscitation equipment: A hidden risk for our babies?
JO  - Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health
JA  - Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health
VL  - 52
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jpc.13150
DO  - doi:10.1111/jpc.13150
SP  - 518
EP  - 522
KW  - environmental exposure
KW  - equipment contamination
KW  - fomite
KW  - neonate
KW  - resuscitation
PY  - 2016
AB  - Aim Neonatal infections carry a heavy burden of morbidity and mortality. Poor practice can result in unintentional colonisation of medical equipment with potentially pathogenic organisms. This study will determine the prevalence and type of bacterial contamination on exposed neonatal resuscitation equipment in different clinical settings and explore simple measures to reduce contamination risk. Methods A survey determined the rates of resuscitation equipment usage. All environmentally exposed items were identified on resuscitaires hospital-wide and swabbed for bacterial contamination. A new cleaning and storage policy was implemented and the prevalence of environmentally exposed equipment re-measured post-intervention. Results Resuscitation equipment was used in 28% of neonatal deliveries. Bacterial colony forming units were present on 44% of the 236 exposed equipment pieces swabbed. There was no significant difference in contamination rates between equipment types. Coagulase negative staphylococcus was the most prevalent species (59 pieces, 25%) followed by Escherichia coli and Enterobacter cloacae (20 pieces, 9% each). Opened items stored inside plastic remained sterile, whilst those in low-use areas had significantly less contamination than those in high-use areas (22% vs. 51%, P?<?0.05). Implementing a simple educational programme led to a significant reduction in environmentally exposed equipment (79% reduction, P?<?0.01). Conclusions Pathogenic bacteria can colonise commonly used pieces of neonatal resuscitation equipment. Whilst the clinical significance remains uncertain, equipment should be kept packaged until required and discarded once open, even if unused. Standardising cleaning policies results in rapid and significant improvements in equipment storage conditions, reducing microbial colonisation opportunities.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Killick, D. R.
AU  - Stell, A. J.
AU  - Catchpole, B.
TI  - Immunotherapy for canine cancer – Is it time to go back to the future?
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 56
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12336
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12336
SP  - 229
EP  - 241
PY  - 2015
AB  - Over the last 50 years, the significance of the immune system in the development and control of cancer has been much debated. However, recent discoveries provide evidence for a role of immunological mechanisms in the detection and destruction of cancer cells. Forty years ago veterinary oncologists were already investigating the feasibility of treating neoplasia by enhancing anticancer immunity. Unfortunately, this research was hindered by lack of a detailed understanding of cancer immunology, this limited the specificity and success of these early approaches. The great forward strides made in our understanding of onco-immunology in recent years have provided the impetus for a resurgence of interest in anticancer immunotherapy for canine patients. In this article both these initial trials and the exciting novel immunotherapeutics currently in development are reviewed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wensveen, Felix M.
AU  - Šestan, Marko
AU  - Turk Wensveen, Tamara
AU  - Polić, Bojan
TI  - ‘Beauty and the beast’ in infection: How immune–endocrine interactions regulate systemic metabolism in the context of infection
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201847895
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201847895
SP  - 982
EP  - 995
KW  - diabetes
KW  - glucose
KW  - infection
KW  - insulin resistance
KW  - metabolic disease
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract The immune and endocrine systems ensure two vital functions in the body. The immune system protects us from lethal pathogens, whereas the endocrine system ensures proper metabolic function of peripheral organs by regulating systemic homeostasis. These two systems were long thought to operate independently. The immune system uses cytokines and immune receptors, whereas the endocrine system uses hormones to regulate metabolism. However, recent findings show that the immune and endocrine systems closely interact, especially regarding regulation of glucose metabolism. In response to pathogen encounter, cytokines modify responsiveness of peripheral organs to endocrine signals, resulting in altered levels of blood hormones such as insulin, which promotes the ability of the body to fight infection. Here we provide an overview of recent literature describing various mechanisms, which the immune system utilizes to modify endocrine regulation of systemic metabolism. Moreover, we will describe how these immune?endocrine interactions derail in the context of obesity. From a clinical perspective we will elaborate how infection and obesity aggravate the development of metabolic diseases such as diabetes mellitus type 2 in humans. In summary, this review provides a comprehensive overview of immune-induced changes in systemic metabolism following infection, with a focus on regulation of glucose metabolism.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bignozzi, I.
AU  - Crea, A.
AU  - Capri, D.
AU  - Littarru, C.
AU  - Lajolo, C.
AU  - Tatakis, D. N.
TI  - Root caries: a periodontal perspective
JO  - Journal of Periodontal Research
JA  - J Periodont Res
VL  - 49
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jre.12094
DO  - doi:10.1111/jre.12094
SP  - 143
EP  - 163
KW  - periodontal disease
KW  - prevention and control
KW  - root caries
PY  - 2014
AB  - Background and objective A prevailing dental problem in the periodontal patient is root caries. Specifically, periodontal involvement often results in root surfaces becoming exposed and at risk for this condition. Periodontal therapy often leads to increased gingival recession as well, and the associated increased root caries risk may compromise the long-term success and survival of periodontally treated teeth.This narrative review will address the topic of root caries in the periodontal patient, focusing on unmet research needs. Material and Methods The Medline database was searched to identify items dealing with root caries, in terms of clinical features, diagnosis, pathogenic mechanisms and histopathology, as well as epidemiology, focusing then on the relationship between root caries and periodontal disorders. Results Although there is extensive literature on root caries, consensus is lacking regarding certain aspects, such as diagnostic criteria, prevalence within populations and indisputable risk factors. Advancing age could be an aggravating factor in susceptibility to root caries for the periodontal patient; however, definitive evidence in this regard is still missing. Similarly, full awareness of the increased risk of root caries in patients with periodontal disease or long-term periodontal treatment appears to be still lacking. Conclusion Research regarding root caries in age-specific (elderly) periodontal patients is needed. Improved oral hygiene practices, locally applied preventive measures, good dietary habits and regular dental check-ups are crucial approaches to prevent both periodontal disease progression and root caries. Periodontal patients with root exposure should follow a strict root caries prevention protocol, as an integral component of their periodontal maintenance therapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Varoga, D.
AU  - Tohidnezhad, M.
AU  - Paulsen, F.
AU  - Wruck, C. J.
AU  - Brandenburg, L.
AU  - Mentlein, R.
AU  - Lippross, S.
AU  - Hassenpflug, J.
AU  - Besch, L.
AU  - Müller, M.
AU  - Jürgens, C.
AU  - Seekamp, A.
AU  - Schmitt, L.
AU  - Pufe, T.
TI  - The role of human β-defensin-2 in bone
JO  - Journal of Anatomy
VL  - 213
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-7580.2008.00992.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1469-7580.2008.00992.x
SP  - 749
EP  - 757
KW  - antimicrobial peptides
KW  - bone
KW  - human beta defensin-2
KW  - innate immunity
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Osteomyelitis often causes functional impairment due to tissue destruction. This report demonstrates a novel previously unappreciated role of osteoblasts. Samples of osteomyelitic bone and bacterially challenged osteoblasts produce increased amounts of antimicrobial peptides in order to combat bacterial bone infection. An osteomyelitis mouse model confirmed the osseous induction of the murine homologue of human ?-defensin-2, suggesting a central role in the prevention of bacterial bone infection. Antimicrobial peptides are effectors of the innate defence system and play a key role in host protection at cellular surfaces. Some of them are produced constitutively, whereas others are induced during infection. Human ?-defensins represent a major subclass of antimicrobial peptides and act as a first line of defence through their broad spectrum of potent antimicrobial activity. The aim of the present in-vitro and in-vivo investigations was to study the expression and regulation of human ?-defensin-2 in the case of bacterial bone infection and to analyse the effects of immunosuppressive drugs on bone-derived antimicrobial peptide expression. Samples of healthy human bone, osteomyelitic bone and cultured osteoblasts (hFOB cells) were assessed for the expression of human ?-defensin-2. Regulation of human ?-defensin-2 was studied in hFOB cells after exposure to bacterial supernatants, proinflammatory cytokines and immunosuppressive drugs (glucocorticoids and methotrexate) and was assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. An osteomyelitis mouse model was performed to demonstrate the regulation of the murine homologue of human ?-defensin-2, named murine ?-defensin-3, by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Healthy human bone and cultured osteoblasts are able to produce human ?-defensin-2 under standard conditions. Samples of infected bone produce higher levels of endogenous antibiotics, such as human ?-defensin-2, when compared with samples of healthy bone. A clear induction of human ?-defensin-2 was observed after exposure of cultured osteoblasts to Gram-positive bacteria or proinflammatory cytokines. Additional treatment with glucocorticoids or methotrexate prevented bacteria-mediated antimicrobial peptide induction in cultured osteoblasts. The osteomyelitis mouse model demonstrated transcriptional upregulation of the murine homologue of human ?-defensin-2, namely murine ?-defensin-3, in bone after intraosseous contamination of the tibia. Human and murine bone have the ability to produce broad-spectrum endogenous antibiotics when challenged by micro-organisms in vitro and in vivo. Immunosuppressive drugs, such as glucocorticoids or methotrexate, may increase the susceptibility to bone infection by decreasing antimicrobial peptide expression levels in case of microbial challenge. The induction of human ?-defensin-2 following bacterial contact suggests a central role of antimicrobial peptides in the prevention of bacterial bone infection.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jokisalo, J.
AU  - Bryan, J.
AU  - Legget, B.
AU  - Abbott, Y.
AU  - Katz, L. M.
TI  - Multiple-drug resistant Acinetobacter baumannii bronchopneumonia in a colt following intensive care treatment
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 22
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3292.2010.00071.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3292.2010.00071.x
SP  - 281
EP  - 286
KW  - horse
KW  - Acinetobacter
KW  - nosocomial
KW  - multiple-drug resistance
KW  - bronchopneumonia
PY  - 2010
AB  - Summary This report describes a case of a multiple-drug resistant strain of Acinetobacter baumannii associated with bronchopneumonia in a horse. A 6-month-old Thoroughbred colt was examined for a chronic lower respiratory tract disease. Prior to presentation to the University Veterinary Teaching Hospital (UVTH), the colt had been treated intensively in a private equine hospital for presumed antimicrobial-induced enterocolitis following treatment with azithromycin and rifampin, and had been discharged on treatment of doxycycline for continued lower airway abnormalities. At the UVTH, investigation of the lower airway disease included a culture of a percutaneous transtracheal wash, which identified a multiple-drug resistant strain of A. baumannii as the causative agent with sensitivity only to fluoroquinolones and trimethoprim sulphonamides. Following treatment with marbofloxacin there was full resolution of the bronchopneumonia. A. baumannii is a major nosocomial pathogen associated with infections in both animals and man and reports of multiple-drug resistant strains have been documented worldwide. Outbreaks of A. baumannii infections have been reported to occur in very ill human patients housed in healthcare settings such as intensive care units, and are characterised by the rapid development of resistance to the majority of antimicrobials. The difficulties in the treatment of such cases as well as the potential risk of transmission within a veterinary clinical setting are discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schieffelin, J.S.
AU  - Garcia-Diaz, J.B.
AU  - Loss Jr, G.E.
AU  - Beckman, E.N.
AU  - Keller, R.A.
AU  - Staffeld-Coit, C.
AU  - Garces, J.C.
AU  - Pankey, G.A.
TI  - Phaeohyphomycosis fungal infections in solid organ transplant recipients: clinical presentation, pathology, and treatment
JO  - Transplant Infectious Disease
JA  - Transpl Infect Dis
VL  - 16
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tid.12197
DO  - doi:10.1111/tid.12197
SP  - 270
EP  - 278
KW  - transplantation
KW  - phaeohyphomycosis
KW  - dematiaceous fungi
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Background Dematiaceous, or dark-pigmented, fungi are known to cause infections such as phaeohyphomycosis, chromoblastomycosis, and mycetoma. These fungi are becoming increasingly important opportunistic pathogens in solid organ transplant recipients (SOTR). We present a retrospective chart review of 27 SOTR who developed phaeohyphomycosis infections post transplant from 1988 to 2009. Methods Cases were reviewed for fungal species isolated, date and source of culture, immunosuppressive and fungal therapy used, and outcome. The majority of isolates obtained were from the skin and soft tissue, with 3 pulmonary and brain abscesses. Results The time from transplantation to onset of infection ranged from 2 months to 11 years. The species isolated were Exophiala (11), Ochroconis (3), Alternaria (2), Phoma (2), Wangiella (1), Cladosporium (1), Aureobasidium (1), Chaetomium (1), Coniothyrium (1), and non-sporulating fungi (2). An additional 4 patients had infections confirmed by pathology, but no cultures were done. Most of the affected skin lesions were surgically debrided and treated with itraconazole; 2 patients were treated with voriconazole and 2 with amphotericin D. Death from fungal disease occurred only in patients with pulmonary and brain abscesses. Conclusions As the number of SOTR increases, so does the incidence of fungal infections in that population. Surgery, along with antifungal therapy and a reduction in immunosuppression, are the cornerstones of treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Metz, Gerlinde A. S.
AU  - Ng, Jane W. Y.
AU  - Kovalchuk, Igor
AU  - Olson, David M.
TI  - Ancestral experience as a game changer in stress vulnerability and disease outcomes
JO  - BioEssays
JA  - BioEssays
VL  - 37
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/bies.201400217
DO  - doi:10.1002/bies.201400217
SP  - 602
EP  - 611
KW  - DNA methylation
KW  - epigenetics
KW  - mental health
KW  - microRNA
KW  - neurological disease
KW  - prenatal stress programming
KW  - transgenerational epigenetic inheritance
PY  - 2015
AB  - Stress is one of the most powerful experiences to influence health and disease. Through epigenetic mechanisms, stress may generate a footprint that propagates to subsequent generations. Programming by prenatal stress or adverse experience in parents, grandparents, or earlier generations may thus be a critical determinant of lifetime health trajectories. Changes in regulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) by stress may enhance the vulnerability to certain pathogenic factors. This review explores the hypothesis that miRNAs represent stress-responsive elements in epigenetic regulation that are potentially heritable. Recent findings suggest that miRNAs are key players linking adverse early environments or ancestral stress with disease risk, thus they represent useful predictive disease biomarkers. Since miRNA signatures of disease are potentially heritable, big data management platforms will be vital to harness multi-generational information and capture succinct yet potent biomarkers capable of directing preventative treatments. This feature would offer a unique window of opportunity to advance personalized medicine.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hollis, Georgie
TI  - Wound cleansing: Have we learned anything?
JO  - Companion Animal
VL  - 17
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2044-3862.2012.00188.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2044-3862.2012.00188.x
SP  - 15
EP  - 20
PY  - 2012
AB  - ABSTRACT: Wound cleansing has been practised for centuries and despite our advances in the medical field there is still much confusion about which solution to use for cleansing wounds in practice. From boiled water to cytotoxic chemicals the annihilation of bacteria has become our biggest obsession but it should not be at the expense of the healing process. As multi-resistant organisms begin to reduce our options for antibiotic use it appears that dilution remains the solution to pollution.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fullerton, James N
AU  - O'Brien, Alastair J
AU  - Gilroy, Derek W
TI  - Pathways mediating resolution of inflammation: when enough is too much
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 231
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.4232
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.4232
SP  - 8
EP  - 20
KW  - critical illness
KW  - sepsis
KW  - resolution of inflammation
KW  - apoptosis
KW  - efferocytosis
KW  - macrophage
KW  - lipid mediators
KW  - PGE2
KW  - T-regulatory cell
KW  - myeloid-derived suppressor cell
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Patients with critical illness, and in particular sepsis, are now recognized to undergo unifying, pathogenic disturbances of immune function. Whilst scientific and therapeutic focus has traditionally been on understanding and modulating the initial pro-inflammatory limb, recent years have witnessed a refocusing on the development and importance of immunosuppressive 'anti-inflammatory' pathways. Several mechanisms are known to drive this phenomenon; however, no overriding conceptual framework justifies them. In this article we review the contribution of pro-resolution pathways to this phenotype, describing the observed immune alterations in terms of either a failure of resolution of inflammation or the persistence of pro-resolution processes causing inappropriate ?injurious resolution??a novel hypothesis. The dysregulation of key processes in critical illness, including apoptosis of infiltrating neutrophils and their efferocytosis by macrophages, are discussed, along with the emerging role of specialized cell subtypes Gr1+ CD11b+ myeloid-derived suppressor cells and CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ T-regulatory cells. Copyright ? 2013 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mastellos, Dimitrios C.
AU  - Yancopoulou, Despina
AU  - Kokkinos, Petros
AU  - Huber-Lang, Markus
AU  - Hajishengallis, George
AU  - Biglarnia, Ali R.
AU  - Lupu, Florea
AU  - Nilsson, Bo
AU  - Risitano, Antonio M.
AU  - Ricklin, Daniel
AU  - Lambris, John D.
TI  - Compstatin: a C3-targeted complement inhibitor reaching its prime for bedside intervention
JO  - European Journal of Clinical Investigation
JA  - Eur J Clin Invest
VL  - 45
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405170253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/eci.12419
DO  - doi:10.1111/eci.12419
SP  - 423
EP  - 440
KW  - clinical translation
KW  - complement-based drug design
KW  - compstatin
KW  - Cp40
KW  - nonhuman primate models
KW  - peptidic C3 inhibitors
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract There is a growing awareness that complement plays an integral role in human physiology and disease, transcending its traditional perception as an accessory system for pathogen clearance and opsonic cell killing. As the list of pathologies linked to dysregulated complement activation grows longer, it has become clear that targeted modulation of this innate immune system opens new windows of therapeutic opportunity for anti-inflammatory drug design. Indeed, the introduction of the first complement-targeting drugs has reignited a vibrant interest in the clinical translation of complement-based inhibitors. Compstatin was discovered as a cyclic peptide that inhibits complement activation by binding C3 and interfering with convertase formation and C3 cleavage. As the convergence point of all activation pathways and a molecular hub for crosstalk with multiple pathogenic pathways, C3 represents an attractive target for therapeutic modulation of the complement cascade. A multidisciplinary drug optimization effort encompassing rational ?wet? and in silico synthetic approaches and an array of biophysical, structural and analytical tools has culminated in an impressive structure-function refinement of compstatin, yielding a series of analogues that show promise for a wide spectrum of clinical applications. These new derivatives have improved inhibitory potency and pharmacokinetic profiles and show efficacy in clinically relevant primate models of disease. This review provides an up-to-date survey of the drug design effort placed on the compstatin family of C3 inhibitors, highlighting the most promising drug candidates. It also discusses translational challenges in complement drug discovery and peptide drug development and reviews concerns related to systemic C3 interception.
ER  - 
