
TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts: International Society for Developmental Psychobiology, 43rd Annual Meeting, November 10–13, 2010 San Diego, CA
JO  - Developmental Psychobiology
JA  - Dev. Psychobiol.
VL  - 52
IS  - 7
SN  - 0012-1630
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/dev.20491
DO  - doi:10.1002/dev.20491
SP  - 691
EP  - 722
PY  - 2010
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Goldbach-Mansky, R.
TI  - Immunology in clinic review series; focus on autoinflammatory diseases: update on monogenic autoinflammatory diseases: the role of interleukin (IL)-1 and an emerging role for cytokines beyond IL-1
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
VL  - 167
IS  - 3
SN  - 0009-9104
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2249.2011.04533.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2249.2011.04533.x
SP  - 391
EP  - 404
KW  - CANDLE
KW  - CAPS
KW  - DIRA
KW  - neonatal disorder
KW  - NOMID
PY  - 2012
AB  - OTHER THEMES PUBLISHED IN THIS IMMUNOLOGY IN THE CLINIC REVIEW SERIES Allergy, Host Responses, Cancer, Type 1 diabetes and viruses, Metabolic diseases. Summary The disease-based discovery of the molecular basis for autoinflammatory diseases has led not only to a rapidly growing number of clinically and genetically identifiable disorders, but has unmantled key inflammatory pathways such as the potent role of the alarm cytokine interleukin (IL)-1 in human disease. Following its initial failures in the treatment of sepsis and the moderate success in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, IL-1 blocking therapies had a renaissance in the treatment of a number of autoinflammatory conditions, and IL-1 blocking therapies have been Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved for the treatment of the autoinflammatory conditions: cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS). CAPS and deficiency of the IL-1 receptor antagonist (DIRA), both genetic conditions with molecular defects in the IL-1 pathway, have provided a pathogenic rationale to IL-1 blocking therapies, and the impressive clinical results confirmed the pivotal role of IL-1 in human disease. Furthermore, IL-1 blocking strategies have shown clinical benefit in a number of other genetically defined autoinflammatory conditions, and diseases with clinical similarities to the monogenic disorders and not yet identified genetic causes. The discovery that IL-1 is not only triggered by infectious danger signals but also by danger signals released from metabolically ?stressed? or even dying cells has extended the concept of autoinflammation to disorders such as gout, and those that were previously not considered inflammatory, such as type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease, obesity and some degenerative diseases, and provided the conceptual framework to target IL-1 in these diseases. Despite the tremendous success of IL-1 blocking therapy, the use of these agents in a wider spectrum of autoinflammatory conditions has uncovered disease subsets that are not responsive to IL-1 blockade, including the recently discovered proteasome-associated autoinflammatory syndromes such as chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatitis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperatures (CANDLE), Japanese autoinflammatory syndrome with lipodystrophy (JASL), Nakajo?Nishimura syndrome (NNS) and joint contractures, muscle atrophy, panniculitis induced lipodystrophy (JMP), and urge the continued quest to characterize additional dysregulated innate immune pathways that cause autoinflammatory conditions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - THIRD MEETING OF THE INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ARTIFICIAL ORGANS July 8–10, 1981
JO  - Artificial Organs
VL  - 5
IS  - 1
SN  - 0160-564X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1525-1594.1981.tb01639.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1525-1594.1981.tb01639.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 94
PY  - 1981
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Murray, Kim P.
AU  - Friedel, Mark E.
AU  - Liu, James K.
AU  - Tessema, Belachew
AU  - Eloy, Jean Anderson
TI  - A Graduated Endoscopic Multi-Angle Approach for Access to the Infratemporal Fossa: A Cadaveric Study
JO  - The Laryngoscope
JA  - The Laryngoscope
VL  - 121
IS  - S4
SN  - 0023-852X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/lary.22123
DO  - doi:10.1002/lary.22123
SP  - S237
EP  - S237
PY  - 2011
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Guzman, Norberto A.
AU  - Phillips, Terry M.
TI  - Immunoaffinity capillary electrophoresis: A new versatile tool for determining protein biomarkers in inflammatory processes
JO  - ELECTROPHORESIS
JA  - ELECTROPHORESIS
VL  - 32
IS  - 13
SN  - 0173-0835
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/elps.201000700
DO  - doi:10.1002/elps.201000700
SP  - 1565
EP  - 1578
KW  - Immunoaffinity capillary electrophoresis
KW  - Microscale metabolic studies
KW  - Organ-on-a-chip
KW  - Protein biomarkers
KW  - Single cell capture device
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Many diseases caused by inflammatory processes can progress to a chronic state causing deterioration in the quality of life and a poor prognosis for long-term survival. To address inflammatory diseases effectively, early detection and novel therapeutics are required. However, this can be challenging, in part because of the lack of early predictive biomarkers and the limited availability of adequate technologies capable of the identification/characterization of key predictive biomarkers present in biological materials, especially those found at picomolar concentrations and below. This review highlights the need for state-of-the art methodologies, with high-sensitivity and high-throughput capabilities, for determination of multiple biomarkers. Although many new biomarkers have been discovered recently, existing technology has failed to successfully bring this advancement to the patient's bedside. We present an overview of the various advances available today to extend the discovery of predictive biomarkers of inflammatory diseases; in particular, we review the technology of immunoaffinity capillary electrophoresis (IACE), which combines the use of antibodies as highly selective capture agents with the high resolving power of capillary electrophoresis. This two-dimensional hybrid technology permits the quantification and characterization of several protein biomarkers simultaneously, including subtle structural changes such as variants, isoforms, peptide fragments, and post-translational modifications. Furthermore, the results are rapid, sensitive, can be performed at a relatively low cost, without the introduction of false positive or false negative data. The IACE instrumentation can have relevance to medical, pharmaceutical, environmental, military, cultural heritage (authenticity of art work), forensic science, industrial and research fields, and in particular as a point-of-care biomarker analyzer in translational medicine.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - American rheumatism association. 10 Columbus Circle, New York 19, New York
JO  - Arthritis & Rheumatism
JA  - Arthritis & Rheumatism
VL  - 6
IS  - 3
SN  - 0004-3591
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/art.1780060314
DO  - doi:10.1002/art.1780060314
SP  - 258
EP  - 308
PY  - 1963
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts for the 9th Congress of the Asian Pacific Society of Respirology 10-13 December, Hong Kong
JO  - Respirology
VL  - 9
IS  - s3
SN  - 1323-7799
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-1843.2004.00673.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1440-1843.2004.00673.x
SP  - A79
EP  - A165
PY  - 2004
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Boros, P.
AU  - Bromberg, J. S.
TI  - New Cellular and Molecular Immune Pathways in Ischemia/Reperfusion Injury
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 6
IS  - 4
SN  - 1600-6135
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.01228.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.01228.x
SP  - 652
EP  - 658
KW  - Graft function
KW  - innate immune response
KW  - ischemia
KW  - regeneration
PY  - 2006
AB  - Ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) is a multi-factorial antigen-independent inflammatory condition that profoundly affects both early and long-term function of the allograft as suggested by both clinical and experimental data. In recent years, the acute phase of IRI has been increasingly viewed as part of the innate immune response. Identification of novel molecular pathways and new insights into the mechanisms of known mediators of IRI have established links among innate immunity, adaptive immune responses and organ regeneration, and thus long-term graft function. This review approaches these novel aspects of IRI in the context of solid organ transplantation, presenting data on new observations with kidney, liver and heart allografts.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 2
IS  - s3
SN  - 1600-6135
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1034/j.1600-0854.2004.000000139.x
DO  - doi:10.1034/j.1600-0854.2004.000000139.x
SP  - 361
EP  - 388
PY  - 2002
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tamaki, Keisuke
AU  - Yamada, Kiyofumi
AU  - Nakamichi, Noritaka
AU  - Taniura, Hideo
AU  - Yoneda, Yukio
TI  - Transient suppression of progenitor cell proliferation through NMDA receptors in hippocampal dentate gyrus of mice with traumatic stress experience
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
VL  - 105
IS  - 5
SN  - 0022-3042
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-4159.2008.05253.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1471-4159.2008.05253.x
SP  - 1642
EP  - 1655
KW  - dentate gyrus
KW  - flashback
KW  - glutamate
KW  - neural progenitor
KW  - NMDA receptors
KW  - post-traumatic stress disorder
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Post-traumatic stress disorder is a long-lasting psychiatric disease after the traumatic experience of severe fatal stress with the consequence of hippocampal atrophy. Freezing behaviors were more than quintupled on the fear-conditioning test in mice previously subjected to water immersion restrain stress (WIRS) with metronome tones when determined 1?28?days after WIRS, while these mice exhibited the increased immobility time on the forced swimming test with the increased spontaneous locomotion. Prior experience of WIRS led to a transient decrease in subsequent 5-bromo-2?-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation into proliferating cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. These behavioral and neurochemical alterations were significantly prevented by the daily injection of the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine, respectively. Moreover, WIRS significantly decreased the number of cells holding BrdU without affecting the differentiation ratio to astroglial and neuronal lineages 28?days later. Prior administration of an NMDA receptor antagonist significantly prevented the aforementioned changes by WIRS. These results suggest that NMDA receptors may play a role in mechanisms underlying the crisis of a variety of psychiatric symptoms relevant to post-traumatic stress disorder through transient suppression of neural progenitor cell proliferation in the murine hippocampal dentate gyrus.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Monday, December 4, 2006 Poster Session III 7:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 47
IS  - s4
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_7.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_7.x
SP  - 204
EP  - 289
PY  - 2006
AB  - 1 Koichi Akaike, 2 Shigeya Tanaka, 3 Shin-Ichi Imamura, 1 Motofumi Kasugai, 1 Hideyuki Matsukubo, 1 Hideshi Tojo, and 1 Akira Sano ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Field of Social and Behavioral Medicine, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; 2 Neurosurgery, Tanaka Neurosurgical Clinic, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ) Rationale: Gabapentin (1-(aminomethyl) cyclohexane acetic acid) is used clinically to treat partial as well as generalized seizures. While various experimental studies have investigated the effects of gabapentin in animal models of epilepsy, the precise mechanism of action of gabapentin against limbic seizures remains unclear. We therefore studied the efficacy of gabapentin during limbic status epilepticus induced by microinjection of kainic acid (KA) into the amygdala. Methods: Fourteen male Wistar rats (250 to 300 g) were prepared for experiments by a stereotactic operation performed with intraperitoneal pentobarbital anesthesia (40 mg/kg). A stainless steel screw was placed in contact with the dura overlying the left sensorimotor cortex (LCx). An additional screw was placed in the frontal sinus as a reference electrode. For microinjection, a stainless steel cannula with an inner needle guide was inserted into the left basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA). Bipolar depth electrodes were placed in the LA and the left dorsal hippocampus (LH). Seven days after the operation, 1.0 microg of KA was injected into the LA (n = 8; KA group). In the control groups, 1.0 microl of PBS was injected into LA (n = 6). In the KA group, 120 minutes after KA injection, while rats were exhibiting limbic status epilepticus, gabapentin was administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) at a dose of 100 mg/kg. All rats were observed electrophysiologically and behaviorally over 7 days. The spike amplitude were measured in all records and values were expressed as persentage of controls. Results: On the EEG in KA-injected rats, multiple spike discharges initially appeared in the LA 10 to 20 min after KA injection, and rapidly propagated to the LdH. Sixty minutes after KA injection, the seizure involved the LCx and resulted in limbic status epilepticus. Behaviorally, the rats showed bilateral facial twitching, mastication, and salivation. Ten to twenty minutes after gabapentin administration, the seizures in the LCx were selectively suppressed (spike amplitude; 10% of controls). The seizures in LA and LH also reduced (spike amplitude; approximately 30?50% of controls) In addition, behavioral seizure manifestations disappeared. In controls, the severe seizures continued. Conclusions: These results suggested that gabapentin suppresses secondary generalization of limbic seizures by a direct effect on the cerebral cortex. (Supported by Pfizer.) 1 Gregory N. Barnes, 1 Xiaoji Zhang, 1 YanFang Li, 2 George M. Smith, and 3 Patricia E. Schauwecker ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN ; 2 Physiology, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington, KY ; and 3 Cell and Neurobiology, University of Southern California School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Molecular determinants which modify activity synaptogenesis may form the core mechanistic components of cortical reorganization after brain injury. Semaphorin 3F (Sema 3F) signaling has been identified as a putative molecular determinant of activity dependent synaptogenesis in the mouse kainic acid model of epileptogenesis. The Sema 3F receptor is a multi-subunit complex composed of at least two proteins, Plexin A3, and Neuropilin 2 (NPN2). Methods: The activity dependent regulation and structure of the mouse NPN2 promoter is detailed here. Results: We have identified a 1.7 kb putative NPN2 promoter from the FVB/NJ (epileptogenic sensitive) and C57BL/6J (epileptogenic resistant strain) mouse strains. The distinct NPN2 promoters, in addition to common putative transcription factor binding sites, have six different single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that specify distinct putative transcription factor binding sites. The FVB/NJ NPN2 promoter has distinct activity dependent methylation sites, whereas these are absent in the C57BL/6J promoter. When the FVB/NJ nucleotide is substituted for C57BL/6J nucleotide, at least two sites, SNP site 2, and SNP site 6, reduce the activity of the C57BL/6J NPN2 promoter by 90%. These putative strain specific-enhancer sites may explain why NPN2 transcription is maintained in C57BL/6J hippocampal neurons but not FVB/NJ hippocampal neurons after kainic acid status epilepticus (KA-SE). In addition to regulation of the NPN2 transcription by glutamate receptors, we also report the NPN2 promoter may be regulated by reactive oxygen species. We have also determined the sequence of the human NPN2 promoter contains important SNPs distinguishing temporal lobe epilepsy patients from controls, which might be a biomarker or perhaps a causal factor in epilepsy. Promoter activity is an important determinant of NPN2 mRNA levels and thus sema 3F signaling; selective deletion of Sema 3F in the mature forebrain greatly facilitates epileptogenesis via PTZ kindling. Conclusions: This data provide preliminary support for the hypothesis that distinct alleles of synaptic plasticity genes may confer susceptibility for acquired epilepsy after brain injury. (Supported by NIH/NINDS, KSCHIRT, and PREP grant program.) 1 Lyndon F. Barnwell, 2 Yajun Ren, 2 Joaquin N. Lugo Jr., and 1,2,3 Anne E. Anderson ( 1 Deptartment of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Pediatrics ; and 3 Division of Neuroscience ) Rationale: Kv4.2 subunits are thought to compose hippocampal A-type K+ channels, which regulate dendritic excitability in hippocampus. ERK activation via PKA and PKC downregulates dendritic A-type K+ currents and is associated with an increase in post-synaptic excitability. Direct ERK phosphorylation of Kv4.2 channel proteins is a candidate mechanism for this effect. We previously demonstrated a dramatic increase in ERK activation and phosphorylation of Kv4.2 acutely following kainate seizures. In the studies presented here we characterize the cellular localization of ERK activation and Kv4.2 regulation in hippocampus during status epilepticus (SE). Methods: Seizures were induced in adult rats by kainate (KA) (15 mg/kg IP). Seizure activity was monitored and scored based on the Racine Scale. After 1-hr of SE animals were sacrificed for biochemical and molecular studies using whole cell homogenates, cellular membranes and synaptosomal preparations. Results: Studies using hippocampal membrane preparations showed an increase in ERK-phosphorylated Kv4.2 (p < 0.05) while total Kv4.2 remained unchanged acutely following kainate-induced SE. This increase in Kv4.2 phosphorylation with SE was accompanied by increased ERK activation (p < 0.05) without a change in total ERK in membrane preparations. In parallel, using hippocampal synaptosomal preparations, we found increased ERK-phosphorylated Kv4.2 (p < 0.05) and ERK activation (p < 0.05) following SE. Intriguingly, levels of total Kv4.2 were significantly decreased (p < 0.05) in the synaptosomal preparations following acute SE. During this same time period, total ERK remained unchanged in the synaptosomal preparations. Studies are underway to evaluate the time-course of these changes in total Kv4.2 regulation and ERK signaling following convulsant stimulation. Conclusions: Our results reveal an increase in ERK-phosphorylated Kv4.2 channels and a decrease in total Kv4.2 proteins in the synaptosomal cellular compartment. The net effect of these changes is predicted to lead to an overall increase in hippocampal excitability during status epilepticus. (Supported by: Funded by NINDS/NIH, Society for Neuroscience, Pediatric Partnership for Epilepsy Research.) 1 Simone K. Benassi, 1 Jerome Engel Jr., and 1 Anatol Bragin ( 1 Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Neurology, Neurobiology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; and Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Recently we have described the presence of pathological high frequency oscillations in the kainic acid rat model of epilepsy. These oscillations, which may be a marker of progressive epileptogenesis, appear to reflect changes in neuronal network excitability associated with an initial precipitating event that may lead to chronic epilepsy. The goal of these studies was to investigate (1) the existence of similar patterns in mice after pilocarpine (PILO) induced status epilepticus (SE) and (2) the neuronal substrates of such oscillations. Methods: C57B6/J adult mice (15?25g) were subjected to electrophysiological recordings under urethane anesthesia (1.5g/kg) between 1 and 3 weeks after PILO (320 mg/kg, s.c.) induced SE. Simultaneously, extracellular unit activity was recorded by a glass pipette (15?25MΩ) and local field potentials were recorded by a 20-?m tungsten microelectrodes placed ≤500?m from the tip of the glass microelectrode. Juxtacellular labeling was performed according to the protocol described by Pinault (1996). After completion of electrophysiological experiments, brains were sliced and sections processed for peroxidase-based neurobiotin visualization used for morphological reconstructions. Cross-correlation analysis between unit activity and local field potentials and power spectral analysis were performed using Datapac (Mission Viejo, CA) software. Results: Similar to electrographic patterns observed in the kainic acid-treated rats, PILO-treated mice had interictal epileptiform events (IEE) with and without high frequency signals (100?500 Hz) and electrographic (EEG) seizures. Power spectral analysis of interictal local field potentials indicated the existence of activity with peaks at 2.0, 5.0?7.0 and 10?40 Hz. Two interneurons, one pyramidal and two granular cells were identified using juxtacellular labeling. One granular cell had no spontaneous activity, but discharged exclusively during epileptiform activity. During seizures, the discharge rate of the hilar interneuron increased to 0.59/sec from a baseline of 0.26/sec. The frequency of discharges of remaining cells (one CA1 interneuron, one pyramidal and one granular cells) was not affected either by the IEE or EEG seizures. Conclusions: During the early stage of epileptogenesis, the electrographic EEG patterns and spectral frequency characteristics of interictal and ictal discharges are similar between kainic-treated rats and PILO-treated mice. Simultaneous extracellular unit and field potential recording, combined with juxtacellular labeling, may identify neuronal mechanisms of progressive epileptogenesis in a mouse model of chronic epilepsy. (Supported by NIH grant NS 02808.) 1 Manjunatha B. Bhat, 2 Stephen L. Yates, and 1 Bridget V. Essley ( 1 Center for Anesthesiology Research, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Medical Affairs, UCB, Inc., Smyrna, GA ) Rationale: Levetiracetam (LEV) is an antiepileptic drug indicated for the adjunctive treatment of partial onset seizures in adults and children age 4 and older, which exhibits good tolerance and no known drug interactions. In addition to its antiepileptic effects, LEV has also been shown to possess therapeutic potential for the treatment of neuropathic pain. While the molecular mechanisms of LEV's action are not fully known, it is known to interact with a specific binding site, synaptic vesicle protein 2A, which is a critical component in the neurotransmitter release process. Intracellular Ca2+ plays a major role in a variety of neuronal functions including excitability and neurotransmission. LEV has been shown to reduce Ca2+ release through IP3 receptors from the intracellular stores of endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In this study, we investigated the effects of LEV on Ca2+ release through ryanodine receptor (RyR), which is a Ca2+-regulated Ca2+ release channel in the ER, in sensory neurons of rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG). Methods: All procedures were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Freshly dissociated lumbar DRG sensory neurons (L1-L6) from adult Sprague-Dawley rats were used in this study. Changes in intracellular Ca2+ were measured using the fluorescent Ca2+-sensitive dye, Fura-2. Caffeine (5 mM) was used to stimulate Ca2+ release through the RyR. LEV was used at a final concentration of 100 ?M. Results: In the presence of 2 mM extracellular Ca2+, stimulation of sensory neurons with caffeine elicited two types of responses. Small diameter, capsaicin-sensitive neurons showed a biphasic increase in intracellular Ca2+: an initial rapid rise (peak) due to release of Ca2+ from the ER, followed by a sustained Ca2+ rise due to Ca2+ entry through the capacitative Ca2+ entry (CCE) pathway. Large diameter neurons showed only a rapid but transient rise in intracellular Ca2+ due to ER Ca2+ release. Extracellular application of LEV did not elicit any changes in intracellular Ca2+ in either type of neurons. However, pretreatment of cells with LEV resulted in inhibition of caffeine-induced Ca2+ responses in both types of neurons. In small neurons, LEV reduced the peak Ca2+ response by 27% and the sustained Ca2+ response by 32%. In large neurons, LEV reduced the caffeine-induced Ca2+ response by 35%. These effects are similar to the inhibitory effects of the general anesthetic drug propofol, which also exhibits anti-epileptic activity. The mechanism(s) by which LEV exerts its effects on RyR-mediated Ca2+ signaling is not known, however, these effects are also mimicked by the activation of protein kinase C (PKC). Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that the antiepileptic drug LEV inhibits intracellular Ca2+ signaling mediated by RyR and CCE pathways in sensory neurons. The LEV-mediated regulation of Ca2+ signaling is similar to that mediated by PKC. (Supported by American Heart Association (National Center).) 1 Robert E. Blair, 2 Katherine W. Falenski, 2 Billy R. Martin, and 1,2 Robert J. DeLorenzo ( 1 Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, Richmond, VA ; and 2 Pharmacology and Toxicology, Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: An imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission is believed to be a primary mechanism underlying seizure discharge. Endocannabinoids in the brain have been shown to operate as retrograde modulators of inhibitory and excitatory neuronal transmission through activation of the presynaptic cannabinoid type-1 receptor (CB1). Studies from our laboratory have shown that exogenous cannabinoids infer CB1-dependent anticonvulsant activity in both in vivo and in vitro models of seizure and epilepsy (Blair et al., 2006, JPET, 317(3),1072?78; Wallace et al., 2003, JPET, 307(1), 129?37), and that the endocannabinoid system acts to tonically regulate epileptic seizure discharge through CB1 activation. Furthermore, we have observed a permanent redistribution of CB1 protein expression throughout the hippocampal formation in the rat pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) model of acquired epilepsy. This study was carried out to determine if the reorganization of the CB1 in the epileptic hippocampus acts to redirect the role of the endocannabinoid system towards regulating excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission. Methods: The rat pilocarpine-induced SE model of acquired epilepsy was utilized for this study. Epileptic and control animals were anesthetized and the brains were perfusion-fixed transcardially. Brain cryosections were made and processed for immunofluorescent co-localization analysis using antibodies specific for the CB1 and markers for excitatory (vesicular glutamate transporter 1: VGLUT1) and inhibitory (vesicular GABA transporter: VGAT) terminals. Results: When compared to control, CB1 immunostaining was increased in epileptic hippocampus in the stratum oriens and radiatum throughout the CA1-CA3 molecular regions that co-localized with VGLUT1-positive glutamatergic terminals. In the CA1-CA2 stratum pyramidale layer highly enriched with VGAT-positive GABAergic terminals, CB1 immunostaining was dramatically decreased in epileptic hippocampus as compared to controls. Conclusions: These findings demonstrate that pilocarpine-induced SE, with subsequent development of epilepsy, causes a redistribution of CB1 expression as indicated by both an increase at glutamatergic and decrease at GABAergic terminals. Such a reorganization of the CB1-dependent endocannabinoid pathway throughout the hippocampus would act to suppress excitatory and increase inhibitory synaptic transmission in the epileptic phenotype and may underlie the anticonvulsant properties of cannabinoids in this model. (Supported by RO1-NS23350, P50-NS25630, and NIDA (DA05274, DA07027,DA11322).) 1 Clayton B. Pulse, and 1 Karin Borges ( 1 Pharmaceutical Sciences, Texas Tech University Health Science Center, Amarillo, TX ) Rationale: The ketogenic diet is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate, low-protein diet that is anticonvulsant in drug-resistant epileptic children. Furthermore, it is anticonvulsive and neuroprotective in experimental brain injury in rodents, although its mechanism of action is still unknown. Our hypothesis is that the ketogenic diet leads to changes of brain metabolism and neurotransmitter levels reflected in the chemical composition of the extracellular fluid in the brain. Methods: Three week-old C3Heb/Fe mice (Jackson Labs) were fed the ketogenic diet (Harlan-Teklad TD.06233) or control diet (TD.06232) with matched amounts of minerals and vitamins ad lib for 2?4 weeks. The latency to flurothyl-induced seizures was measured after 3 weeks of feeding. We are using in vivo microdialysis to measure metabolic intermediates and neurotransmitters in the hippocampus of mice on the different diets. The CMA 600 microanalyser is used to measure glucose, lactate and glutamate. Results: Weight gain of both groups was similar, but mice on the ketogenic diet had significantly higher serum beta-hydroxybutyrate levels than control mice (2.7-fold, n = 10 mice each, p < 0.05). Latency to flurothyl-induced tonic seizures was significantly increased (10%) by the ketogenic diet (n = 10 mice each, p < 0.05). Preliminary microdialysis data suggests that the glucose/lactate ratio in the brain extracellular fluid is altered significantly in ketotic mice (p < 0.05 unpaired two-sided t-test). Mice on the control diet showed a glucose/lactate ratio of 1.5 ± 0.2 (mean ± standard deviation; n = 3), whereas ketogenic mice had a ratio of 3.4 ± 0.7 (n = 3). We are in the process to measure the absolute concentrations of glucose, lactate and glutamate in the brain extracellular fluid by microdialysis using the zero-flow method. Conclusions: In summary, our preliminary data indicate that brain energy metabolism is altered in mice on the ketogenic diet, which may contribute to protecting the brain from seizures and brain damage. (Supported by TTUHSC.) 1 Mark R. Bower, 1 Timothy Y. Hui, and 1,2 Paul S. Buckmaster ( 1 Comparative Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, CA ; and 2 Neurology  n = 9) or those with high firing rate (>5 Hz) and narrow spikewidth (<250 ?sec) that were tonically active (putative interneurons; n = 7). Action potential frequencies were plotted relative to seizure onset, binned (bin width = 10 sec) and compared to baseline levels using a repeated-measures ANOVA (p = 0.05). Results: No significant differences were observed between baseline and preictal action potential frequency in granule cells (2.7 ± 0.7 Hz baseline vs. 2.7 ± 1.0 Hz preictal, ANOVA, p = 0.958) or interneurons (10.6 ± 2.5 Hz vs. 11.9 ± 2.1 Hz, p = 0.665). Conclusions: The lack of significant changes in action potential frequency in either granule cells or interneurons during the preictal period suggests that seizures in Mongolian gerbils are not initiated by disinhibition in dentate gyrus. These preliminary results do not reject the possibility that disinhibition plays a role in seizure initiation in other brain structures. They do, however, show the utility of recording multiple, single neurons in vivo for testing hypotheses of ictal transition by identifying activity changes in specific neuron classes with respect to spontaneous seizure onset. (Supported by NIH/NINDS and the Eric W. Lothman fellowship from the Epilepsy Foundation.) 1 Amy L. Brewster, 1 Roland A. Bender, 2 Mira Kuisle, 4 Didier Pinault, 3 Ryuichi Shigemoto, 2 Luthi Anita, and 1 Tallie Z. Baram ( 1 Pediatrics  2 Pharmacology  3 Division of Cerebral Structure, National Institute of Physiological Sciences, Okazaki, Japan ; and 4 Physiopathologie Clinique et Experimentaler de la Schizophrenie, Faculte de Medecine, Strasbourg, France ) Rationale: (Ih), the current carried by the HCN channels, contributes to neuronal membrane properties and network integration. Thalamic HCN channels participate in thalamocortical oscillations that are involved in sleep and have been implicated in absence epilepsies (Di Pasquale et al., 1997; Strauss et al., 2004; Budde et al., 2005). In both thalamus (absence) and hippocampus (febrile seizure-related limbic epilepsy), the epilepsies associated with HCN channel dysfunction commence during development. This suggests that disrupted developmental regulation of thalamic HCN channel expression may contribute to the process of initiation of these epilepsies. Therefore, we studied the developmental expression patterns of HCN channels in thalamus, and probed the role of these channels in an established model of absence epilepsy, the Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rat from Strasbourg (GAERS). Methods: We used in situ hybridization (quantitative and single-cell resolution) to investigate the thalamic expression of HCN channel isoforms 1, 2 and 4 in Sprague-Dawley rats at postnatal days (P) 2, 7, 11, 18 and 60, as well as in adult GAERS rats and age/strain matched controls. The developmental studies were augmented by immunocytochemistry. Results: (1) HCN1, 2 and 4 isoforms were expressed in distinct patterns in thalamus as early as P2. The HCN1 isoform resided primarily in thalamic nuclei that inter-connect with limbic regions (e.g., anterodorsal, lateral posterior). In contrast, HCN2 channels were robustly expressed in nuclei of the ventral group that relay somatosensory input to cortex (e.g., ventral posteromedial; VPm). HCN2, but not HCN4, was found in reticular nucleus (Rtn). In general, expression patterns in immature thalamus were similar to those in adults. (2) Levels of HCN2 and 4 isoforms did not distinguish GAERS rats from controls. However, HCN1 mRNA levels were strongly increased in the VPm (58%) and Rtn (28%). (3) Consistent with the increased contribution of HCN1 to the molecular make-up of thalamic Ih in the GAERS, the h-current in these rats was much less sensitive to non-saturating levels of cAMP, influencing thalamocortical oscillations (Kuisle et al., 2006). Conclusions: (1) Nucleus-specific expression patterns of thalamic HCN isoforms are established early postnatally, consistent with a key role for these channels in fundamental functions of the thalamocortical network (2) Increased expression of HCN1 channels in GAERS rats is associated with Ih dysfunction that may contribute to their epileptic phenotype. (Supported by NIH NS 47993 (ALB); NS 35439 (TZB).) 1,2,3 Peter A. Abdelmalik, 4 Patrick Shannon, 1 Philip Liang, 1 Marina Samoilova, 2,3 W. McIntyre Burnham, and 1,2 Peter L. Carlen ( 1 Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada ; 2 University of Toronto Epilepsy Research Program, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada ; 3 Department of Pharmacology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada ; and 4 Department of Pathology, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Severe hypoglycemia constitutes a medical emergency, manifested by seizures, coma and death. Methods: Using the isolated intact hippocampus of the immature mouse, we characterized hypoglycemic seizures in vitro during transient hypoglycemia, and their effects on synaptic transmission, neuronal morphology and hippocampal glycogen content. Results: Hypoglycemic seizures occurred less frequently with increasing extracellular glucose concentration. The irreversible loss of synaptic transmission, however, was only dependant on the occurrence of hypoglycemic seizure activity, irrespective of glucose concentration. Comparatively, no hypoglycemic seizures were generated in the isolated neocortical block during transient hypoglycemia, and the loss of synaptic transmission was reversible. Similar spontaneous seizure-like activity in the hippocampus was produced by the glycolysis inhibitor iodoacetate, and 500 ?M L-aspartate but not by hypoxia. Hypoglycemic seizure activity was abolished by NMDA and non-NMDA antagonists. The clinical anticonvulsant midazolam, but not phenytoin or valproate also abolished hypoglycemic seizures. In both cases, the prevention of hypoglycemic seizures led to the maintenance of synaptic transmission. Non-glycolytic, oxidative substrates attenuated hypoglycemic seizure activity, without supporting synaptic transmission, even in the presence of adenosine antagonist DPCPX. Methods used to abolish or significantly decrease hypoglycemic seizure activity led to the protection against glycogen depletion and a decrease in cell damage. Conclusions: These data suggest that suppressing neuronal hyperexcitability during hypoglycemia decreases subsequent neuronal damage. (Supported by: The authors would like to acknowledge the support of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 S.S. Cash, 1 N. Meng, 1 C. Melinosky, 2 I. Ulbert, 3 O. Devinsky, 3 W. Doyle, 3 A. Mehta, 3 C. Wang, 4 E. Bromfield, 5 J. Madsen, and 6 E. Halgren ( 1 Neuro, Mass. General Hospital, Boston, MA ; 2 Inst. for Psych., Hungarian Acad. of Sci., Budapest, Hungary ; 3 New York University Medical Center, NY, NY ; 4 Brigham  5 Childrens Hospital, Boston, MA ; and 6 University of CA, San Diego, CA ) Rationale: With limited available in vivo microphysiology, the neuronal mechanisms underlying the initiation and propagation of focal seizures in humans remain unclear. Yet this type of detailed information is important in the design of new therapeutic approaches to epilepsy. To more completely characterize the physiological evolution of seizures and how neuronal populations contribute to the development and spread of synchrony we recorded interictal and ictal activity in epileptic patients using intracortical linear microelectrode arrays, depth and subdural grid macroelectrodes. Methods: Microelectrode arrays measure potential gradient (PG), current source density (CSD) and multi-unit activity (MUA) from a restricted region of cortex ?300 ?m in diameter. These parameters, when combined, present a view of active microcircuitry during a given event. This information is complemented by macroelectrodes which provide contextual information about widespread cortical activity. We analyzed interictal discharges and 13 seizures from 7 patients who were undergoing intracranial investigation for intractable temporal or frontal lobe epilepsy of different etiologies including mesial temporal sclerosis, dysplasias, tumors and structural lesions. Results: Microelectrode recordings of some ictal events showed similarities to the PG, CSD and MUA profiles of interictal events. During most seizures, however, there was a progression in this profile suggesting changes in the cellular substrates underlying ictal spike generation. In particular, large amplitude burst discharges toward the seizure's end involved more robust participation of deeper cortical layers and greater population neuronal firing. Seizures also exhibited differing phase characteristics during their evolution: trains of ictal discharges recorded either from two laminar microelectrode arrays or from different points on the subdural grid showed phase locking during some epochs in the seizure but were phase variable at others. Likewise, interictal events often showed inconsistent onsets and spread patterns. Conclusions: These results lead us to speculate that network synchrony is achieved and then spreads by different modes during focal seizures in humans; epileptiform activity is generated not from a single cellular source but from different micro-circuitry networks and propagation relies on a variety of pathways. Furthermore, it is likely that both local and distributed processes interact to shape the overall spatio-temporal evolution and synchronization features of the seizure. This type of in vivo data may influence future designs of surgical procedures and brain stimulation paradigms. (Supported by NIH, AES, Grass Foundation.) 1 James W. Chen ( 1 Neurology, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: It has been established that optical intrinsic signal (OIS) imaging correlates well with seizure activity. In this study, we obtained high-spatial-resolution images of normalized oxy-hemoglobin (Hb), deoxy-Hb, total Hb, oxygen saturation and oxygen-consumed maps of acute neocortical seizures in rats by using spectral images recorded simultaneously at multiple wavelengths. Methods: In 17 Spraque-Dawley rats, surgery and OIS imaging were performed under general anesthesia in a thinned skull preparation. OIS images were obtained with two CCD cameras with combination of two optical filters among 852, 780, 610 and 568 nm. Electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded in real time with multiple depth electrodes or Michigan 16-channel electrodes in the somatosensory cortex. OIS spectral images were synchronously recorded with EEG. Acute seizures were induced by penicillin applied topically. Images of oxy-Hb, deoxy-Hb, total Hb, oxygen saturation, oxygen-consumed and scattering maps were obtained by performing the following sequential numerical steps:1) ratio analysis, 2) image transformation and co-registration, 3) pixel-by-pixel calculation of normalized oxy-Hb, deoxy-Hb, total Hb, oxygen saturation and oxygen consumed using the Beer-Lambert law, 4) reconstruct normalized images. Results: High-spatial-resolution normalized images of oxy-Hb, deoxy-Hb, total Hb, oxygen saturation and oxygen-consumed maps were reconstructed to study seizure induction and propagation. It was noted that before or at seizure onset, the concentration of deoxy-Hb transiently increases, in both parenchyma (?0.03%) and venous space (?0.06%). After that, it was quickly followed by increases of oxy-Hb in the parenchyma (?0.03%) and venous space (?0.06%). Conclusions: By obtaining OIS spectral images of multiple wavelengths simultaneously, normalized high-spatial-resolution maps of oxy-Hb, deoxy-Hb, total-Hb and oxygen saturation could be reconstructed. Based on these maps, changes of oxy-Hb, deoxy-Hb and total-Hb could be reviewed with information of the anatomical structures. These maps showed initial increase of deoxy-Hb transiently in both parenchyma and venous space before seizure onset. (Supported by NINDS K08 NS 42798.) 1 Kon Chu, 1 Keun-Hwa Jung, 1 Kyung-Il Park, 1 Manho Kim, 1 Jae-Kyu Roh, and 1 Sang Kun Lee ( 1 Neural Stem Cell Laboratory, Stem Cell Research Center, Clinical Research Institute, Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Neuroscience Research Institute of SNUMRC, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: The acute brain insult, such as status epilepticus is followed by a latent period characterized by the functional or morphological changes of the hippocampus over several days to weeks, before the onset of spontaneous recurrent seizures. Although the significance of abnormal plasticity, such as cell genesis has been described in the hippocampus after seizures, little data so far ascertained the preventive strategies in epilepsy. We have tried to discover desirable drugs to rectify the abnormal plasticity for clinical use. Erythropoietin (EPO), recently known as cytoprotective and anti-inflammatory agent, and neurogenic modulator, may constitute an effective therapeutic modality in cases of epileptic insult. However, there is no study for the effects of exogenous EPO on the epileptogenic process. Methods: In this study, we examined the effects of EPO in the epileptic rats with lithium/pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE), in terms of neuronal loss, inflammation, and cell proliferation . Results: The neuronal death, inflammation, and cell genesis was substantially linked together in more extensive areas, notably in entorhinal, perirhinal, piriform cortex, amygdala and parts of the thalamus as well as the hippocampus. The EPO receptor (EPOR) mRNA level was increased in the first week after SE, and decreased thereafter. EPOR was increased in the damaged areas such as hilus and CA1 subfield. During the latent period after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, EPO prevented neuronal death and microglia activation in these areas, and inhibited the generation of ectopic granule cells in the hilus and new glia in CA1. Conclusions: These findings suggest a potential therapeutic role for EPO in chronic epilepsy. Currently, we are trying to disclose the agents potentially conferring anti-epileptogenesis in a variety of epilepsy models, including febrile convulsion and neocortical epilepsy. (Supported by the Ministry of Health and Welfare (A060452), Republic of Korea. References: 1. Jung KH, Chu K, Kim M, Jeong SW, Song YM, Lee ST, Kim JY, Lee SK, Roh JK. Continuous cytosine-b-D-arabinofuranoside infusion reduces ectopic granule cells in adult rat hippocampus with attenuation of spontaneous recurrent seizures following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Eur J Neurosci. 2004;19:3219?3226. 2. Jung KH, Chu K, Lee ST, Kim J, Sinn DI, Kim JM, Park DK, Lee JJ, Kim SU, Kim M, Lee SK, Roh JK. Cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, Celecoxib Inhibits the Altered Hippocampal Neurogenesis with Attenuation of Spontaneous Recurrent Seizures Following Pilocarpine-Induced Status Epilepticus. Neurobiol Dis. 2006 (In press).) 1 Ondrej Chudomel, 1,2 Aristea S. Galanopoulou, and 1,2,3 Solomon L. Moshé ( 1 Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY ; and 3 Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) plays an important role in seizure control. There has been evidence that impairment of tonic GABA current may contribute to the development of generalized epilepsy in humans. We have found that the delta subunit, an important component of extrasynaptic GABAA receptors mediating tonic current, is present in the SNR and its expression significantly decreases with age in male and female rats. Thus, the objective of the current study was to determine whether tonic GABA current is present in GABAergic neurons and whether its magnitude changes with age. Furthermore, we studied alterations in phasic GABA inhibition as a function of age and sex. Methods: We studied two groups of Sprague-Dawley male and female rats at postnatal days (P) 10?15 and older than P22. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from electrophysiologically identified nigral GABAergic cells in the presence of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and tetrodotoxin (TTX). Gabazine 500 nM was applied to inhibit GABAA receptor-mediated postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). GABAA tonic current was revealed by bath-applied bicuculline 100 uM and was measured as the change in baseline current before and after bicuculline. IPSCs were analyzed before TTX and gabazine were applied. Results: The tonic GABA current was present in GABAergic neurons in younger rats, however it was significantly lower in older animals. On the contrary, frequency and amplitude of phasic GABA inhibition was higher after P22 compared with younger rats. We did not find significant differences between sexes in either parameter. Conclusions: The tonic GABA current can be revealed in GABAergic SNR neurons. Although there is no apparent difference between males and females, the magnitude of tonic GABA inhibition significantly decreases with age. These findings can be explained by the age-related decrease in delta subunit expression in SNR neurons and the absence of sex differences in its expression. On the other hand, phasic GABA inhibition prevails later in development probably reflecting more dense synaptic connections onto GABAergic neurons or increased expression of synaptic GABAA receptors. Given the importance of SNR GABAergic neurons in seizure control, these findings could facilitate treatment of epilepsy based on the maturational state of the brain. (Supported by NS 20253, NS045243 from NINDS and an RSRF grant.) 1 Robert J. Claycomb, 1 Sandra J. Hewett, and 1 James A. Hewett ( 1 Neuroscience, UConn Health Center, Farmington, CT ) Rationale: IL-1 is a potent pro-inflammatory cytokine with neuromodulatory functions within the central nervous system. IL-1 signal transduction is mediated by the type I receptor (IL-1RI), which is expressed by neurons in the primary cell layers of the hippocampus. Using mice lacking IL-1R1, the hypothesis that endogenous IL-1 contributes to neuroplasticity associated with PTZ-induced kindling, a model of epileptogenesis, was tested herein. Methods: Homozygous male C57BL/6 mice (8?10 weeks) lacking a functional IL-1RI gene or wild-type controls were bred at the UCHC and acclimatized to handling stress for one week prior to use. A PTZ dose-response relationship was performed to determine the effect of IL-1RI deletion on acute convulsant activity of PTZ. Kindling was induced by a once daily administration of a subconvulsive dose of PTZ. All mice were monitored for 15 min following PTZ administration and scored for seizure severity using an established seizure severity scale (Stages 0?4). The latency (time to onset) of a generalized convulsive seizure (Stage 3?4) was also measured. Mice were considered kindled after exhibiting ≥ 4 consecutive Stage 3?4 seizures. Results: PTZ induced kindling in wild-type C57BL/6 mice in a dose-dependent manner. After 18 days (i.e., 18 doses of PTZ), 40 and 57% of mice subjected to daily doses of 20 or 24 mg/kg PTZ, respectively, had become kindled. In stark contrast, IL-1RI null mice, treated in parallel, did not become sensitized to the convulsant properties of PTZ (0% kindled at either 20 or 24 mg/kg PTZ after 18 days). To determine if the inability of IL-1RI null mice to kindle was due to decreased sensitivity to PTZ, the dose-response relationship to acute PTZ-induced seizures was determined. Compared to controls, IL-1RI null mice were less sensitive to acute PTZ-induced seizures, as indicated by a rightward shift in the acute convulsive response between 20?58 mg/kg PTZ. For example, 36 mg/kg PTZ elicited a mean seizure score of 2.9 ± 0.3 in control mice but only 1.1 ± 0.1 in the IL-1RI null mice. Further, IL1-R1 null mice showed an increased latency to a seizure elicited by 50 mg/kg PTZ, a dose that resulted in generalized convulsions in both mouse strains. Time to onset was 138 ± 23 and 336 ± 60 sec for control and IL-1RI null mice, respectively. To determine if kindling could be achieved in IL1-R1 null mutants, these mice were administered once daily doses of 31 mg/kg PTZ. This dosing paradigm induced kindling in IL-1RI null mice that resembled kindling induced in control mice with 24 mg/kg PTZ. Conclusions: Results from this study indicate that IL-1RI null mice are less prone to PTZ-induced kindling. This is likely due to a reduction in the sensitivity of these mice to PTZ and not to an inability to kindle. These findings suggest that endogenous IL-1 facilitates PTZ-induced kindling by decreasing the PTZ seizure threshold. (Supported by Patterson Trust  and 2 Departments of Neurosurgery, Engineering Science and Mechanics, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA ) Rationale: Spontaneous, 4-AP induced seizures, as identified by paroxysmal electrical activity accompanied by a significant negative shift in extracellular voltage, occur after a significant period of high activity in the inhibitory cells. Seizures initiate as the inhibitory cells enter a transient state of depolarization block. The origin of this layer specific blockade of cellular spiking activity is unknown, but it shares physiologal similarity with hypoxic depolarization block. We present measurements with extremely high spatially resolutions utilizing nanoscale optical probes, PEBBLES (Barker et al., (1998) Anal. Chem) as well as measurements from optically active oxygen sensing whole-cell mircoelectrodes. Methods: Two probes were used in these experiments. In the first case we have developed a technique to use a combination of electrical current and pressure to drive small nanoscale oxygen sensitive probes, or PEBBLES, into the extracellular space of the brain slices. In addition we coat the tip of a microelectrode with a mixture of fluorescent dyes which permit the measurement of local tissue oxygen pressure simultaneous with extracellular or intracellular electrical potential. A ratiometric dye cocktail is made by dissolving the following components, PVC ? Poly(vinyl chloride), DOS ? Bis (2-ethylhexyl) sebacate, PtOEPKt ? Pt(II) Octaethylporphine Ketone and BODIPY 577/618 in the solvent THF ? tetrahydrofuran. Borosilicate glass micropipettes (3?7 MW) are dipped in the above cocktail, calibrated and inserted into tissue. Light from a metal hallide light passes through a 580 nm excitation filter, and is directed towards the sample using a 590 nm dichroic mirror. The fluorescence light is filtered alternatively at 620 nm and 760 nm to image the BODIPY and PtoEPKt-Pt(II) respectively. Results: Intracellular electrical measurements reveal interleaving activity between excitatory cells in the st. pyramidale and inhibitory cells in the st. oriens. We recently presented simultaneous measurement of extracellular electrical activity and quantitative oxygen measurement on the level of microdomains within neural tissue. We have further refined this technique to measure simultaneous whole-cell electrical recordings with local oxygen measurements. Optical measurements using both small nanoscale PEBBLES as well as optodes display an increase in intensity during the seizure which corresponds to a decrease in the local oxygen pressure. Conclusions: We utilized nanoscale probes, PEBBLES, to measure the oxygen pressure across different strata in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus during 4-AP induced seizures allowing a detailed investigation of the role that oxygen plays on the level of microdomains of cortical layers or even near single cells in the formation and termination of seizures. (Supported by F32 NS051072?01A1, K02MH01493, R01MH500006.) 1,3 S. Crowe, 1,3 K. Gale, and 1,2,3 A. Kondratyev ( 1 Pharmacology, Georgetown Univ, Wash, DC ; 2 Pediatrics ; and 3 Interdisc Program in Neurosci ) Rationale: Continuous seizures or status epilepticus (SE) endanger vulnerable neurons, with prolonged durations causing cell death. Seizure-evoked oxidative damage, including DNA damage, can contribute to this injury (Crowe et al., AES, 2005), but the threshold duration of seizures to induce DNA damage is not known, nor do we know if DNA damage occurs after seizure durations not causing cell death. Because phosphorylation occurs at sites of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), DSBs can be quantified by measuring phosphorylated histone H2AX (?-H2AX). We examined ?-H2AX in specific brain regions after seizure durations subthreshold for causing neuronal death. Methods: Four seizure conditions were studied: 1) acute repeated minimal electroshock seizures (ECS); 2) 30 min of kainic acid (KA)-evoked brief intermittent seizures (prior to the onset of SE); 3) 5 min of continuous seizure (SE) induced by KA; and 4) 120 min of KA-evoked SE in rats pre-exposed to a neuroprotective regimen of ECS for 7 days. Seizures induced by KA (12.5 mg/kg, ip) were terminated with diazepam (30 mg/kg, ip). ECS (200ms, 22?28mA) induced 5?10 sec limbic seizures. A single (acute) ECS session consisted of 3 ECS at 30 min intervals; chronic ECS consisted of daily sessions for 7d. Rats were perfused after seizure termination; brains were cryosectioned for ?-H2AX immunohistochemistry. Results: Neither acute nor chronic ECS changed ?-H2AX immediately or 24h after the last seizure. KA-evoked intermittent seizures (5?7 brief seizures in the first 30 min) caused significant increases in ?-H2AX in neurons in CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus (hilus and granule cells), amygdala, and entorhinal cortex. Even greater increases were seen following 5 min of SE, although in most areas (except for dentate granule cells) this was not as great as that obtained after 120 min of SE. With ECS preconditioning, the increase in ?-H2AX induced by prolonged (120 min) SE was reduced by at least 80%; the residual increase in ?-H2AX was less than that seen after 5 min SE in rats without preconditioning. Conclusions: Our observation that ?-H2AX increased after seizures that did not cause significant cell death indicates that DSBs are an early sign of cell endangerment. Moreover, the transient increase in ?-H2AX in death-resistant cells (dentate granule cells) suggests that rapid activation of repair processes may contribute to the resistance of these neurons to seizure-evoked injury. Because a single cluster of 5?7 seizures increased ?-H2AX, whereas acute or chronic ECS did not, it appears that isolated seizures do not induce DSBs and that a minimum seizure density is needed to trigger DNA damage. Our data also suggest that 5 min of SE in seizure-naive animals causes substantial DNA damage in the absence of neuronal loss. Thus, early intervention to terminate SE may be necessary to minimize adverse neurological sequelae that can occur without neurodegeneration. (Supported by NIH F31NS461991, R01NS20576, K01MH02040, K07AG019165.) 1 Giulia Curia, 1 Ruba Benini, and 1,2 Massimo Avoli ( 1 Neurology  and 2 Human Physiology and Pharmacology, ?La Sapienza? University, Roma, Italy ) Rationale: Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most common form of partial complex seizures in humans. For several years neuroscientists have focused on investigating network and intrinsic properties of the hippocampus proper, and its role in TLE. Recently however, they have been giving more importance to parahippocampal structures, including the subiculum. Subiculum is the closest structure to the hippocampus; it receives inputs from the hippocampus proper and projects to the entorhinal cortex. Methods: The brain was quickly removed from adult rats and cut into slices (450 ?m thickness) that initially included the hippocampus and adjacent enthorinal cortex. The subiculum was further isolated from these slices by cutting out the CA1, dentate gyrus, pre- and para-subiculum and enthorinal cortex. We performed extra- and intracellular recordings from isolated subiculum minislices obtained from both non-epileptic controls (NEC) and pilocarpine-treated rats, which represents an animal model of TLE. Results: In subiculum minislices, application of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) induced spontaneous network activity in both NEC (interval of occurrence: 85.71 ± 10.56 s; duration: 0.78 ± 0.06 s; n = 15) and pilocarpine-treated (interval of occurrence: 73.35 ± 8.74 s; duration 0.64 ± 0.01 s; n = 7) animals. Intracellular recordings revealed that subicular cells at resting membrane potential exhibited three different types of spontaneous network activity. In the first group, field activity corresponded intracellulary to an initial hyperpolarization followed by a long-lasting depolarization (LLD). In the second group, the LLD was preceded by an initial depolarization leading to one or more action potentials. Finally, in the third group, an initial burst discharge was found to precede the LLD. In both NEC and pilocarpine-treated tissue, all three types of activity were contributed by GABAA receptors since the activity is markedly reduced by picrotoxin. Comparison of NEC and pilocarpine-treated tissue revealed a difference in the expression of these three types of activity. In NEC, 71.43% of the cells, demonstrated the first situation (n = 10/14); this percentage dropped to 57.14% in pilocarpine-treated animals (n = 4/7). The second situation occurred in 21.43% of NEC (n = 3/14) and in 14.28% of pilocarpine (n = 1/7). The third situation was present only in 7.14% of NEC (n = 1/14) but in 28.57% of pilocarpine-treated rodents (n = 2/7). Conclusions: These data demonstrate that 4-AP induces network-driven events in subicular minislices of both NEC and pilocarpine-treated rats. In addition, subicular cells from epileptic tissue are more likely to exhibit network-driven burst discharges as compared to those from NEC. (Supported by CIHR, FXRFC, CURE and FRSQ.) 1 Marit Dahl, and 1 Peter Wolf ( 1 Danish Epilepsy Centre, Dianalund ) Rationale: To discuss the purpose and methodology of comparative daily profiles of Lamotrigine (LTG). Methods: In Denmark, legislature since 2005 enforces, for all drugs including AEDs, delivery by the pharmacy of the cheapest preparation. For AEDs, the bioequivalence range has been set to 90 ? 111% of the original. Bioequivalence is tested by comparison of a single dose of two preparations in a group of healthy volunteers. Frequent changes in price of 7 different generic Lamotrigine preparations expose patients to multiple preparation shifts. Some patients report problems following shifts, sometimes of a serious kind. In view of obtaining sufficiently detailed pharmacokinetic data including Cmax, Cmin, tmax, Cmax/min and Cx, we have started in selected cases to compare daily profiles of the preparations in question. There are no standard methods to establish such profiles. Ideally, blood sampling would have to take place at 30 ? 60 min intervals after drug intake, followed by increasing intervals until the next dose. But compromises are necessary because blood sampling needs to be integrated into daily hospital routine. Another question is the adequate interval between the two comparative profiles. In addition, possible pharmacokinetic interactions with co-medications need to be considered. Results: We present preliminary findings with sampling intervals of three and four hours, and with intervals between profiles of one to three weeks. The three hour schedule appears to provide reasonably informative data, whereas a four hour schedule may fail to detect differences in tmax and carries a risk of rather imprecise Cmax measurements from which other calculations depend. Deviations clearly exceeding the accepted bioequivalence range were observed under realistic clinical conditions, and could confirm and explain reports of both status epilepticus with lower bioavailability, and locomotor ataxia with the consequence of fall, skull fracture and intracranial bleeding with higher bioavailability. The deviations observed in the daily profiles were not necessarily apparent when only morning trough levels were compared. Conclusions: Comparative daily profiles provide differentiated information on the bioequivalence of different LTG preparations. In clinical conditions, deviations outside the accepted bioequivalence range were observed and could explain serious morbidity following preparation shift. For clinical purposes, a 3 hour sampling schedule seems to be adequate. 1 Céline M. Dubé, 1 Amy L. Brewster, 1 Cristina Richichi, 1 Elyzabeth Custodio, and 1 Tallie Z. Baram ( 1 Anatomy  Dubé et al., 2006). The generation of HCN1-deficient mice (HCN1-/-) provides a powerful tool to examine the potential causal role of reduced HCN1 channels in this hippocampal network dysfunction. These studies examined whether immature HCN1-/- mice are more sensitive to seizure provocation and prone to develop spontaneous recurrent seizures as adults. Concurrently, we examined the developmental expression and seizure-evoked regulation of the remaining hippocampal HCN isoforms in these mice. Methods: The threshold temperature required for the onset of a hyperthermic ?febrile? seizure was studied as a measure of hyperexcitability in HCN1-/- mice and wild-type controls. Experimental FS were induced on postnatal day 14 and animals monitored as adults for the emergence of spontaneous seizures using digital video hippocampal EEG recordings. Seizure events were determined according to both EEG (i.e., polyspikes or sharp-waves with amplitude > 200% of background lasting over 6 seconds) and behavioral criteria (i.e, freezing and ?limbic? automatisms). Hippocampal mRNA and protein expression of HCN channel isoforms 1?4 was quantified using in situ hybridization and Western blots. The cellular and subcellular distribution of HCN isoforms was analyzed via immunocytochemistry. Results: Threshold temperatures for experimental FS onset in HCN1-/- mice were significantly higher than those of controls: 41.9 ± 0.2 °C (n = 22) vs 40.7 ± 0.2°C (n = 24) p < 0.0001. These data indicate that HCN1-/- mice are less sensitive to seizure generation. EEGs were normal in all control mice and preliminary data have not yet revealed spontaneous seizures in HCN1-/- mice. Analyses of mRNA and protein expression are ongoing, but preliminary data support an absence of compensatory changes in HCN2 and HCN4 (Nolan et al., 2004). Conclusions: These experiments suggest that global absence of HCN1 channels from all cell types and cellular compartments yields a ?hypoexcitable? network. In addition, they suggest that HCN1 channels contribute to hippocampal network properties in a complex manner that is dependent on the cell type (e.g., interneurons vs principal cells), subcellular compartment and perhaps developmental expression programs. (Supported by NIH NS 47993 (ALB); NS 35439 (TZB).) 1 Sara J. Ernst, 3 Lori Isom, 2 Daniel L. Burgess, and 1,2 Jeffrey L. Noebels ( 1 Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; and 3 Department of Pharmacology, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Loss of function mutations in voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSC) have been linked to epilepsy in humans, but the mechanisms underlying hyperexcitability remain unclear. One possibility for this unexpected seizure phenotype is a compensatory dysregulation of other sodium channel subunits expressed in brain. Methods: To evaluate this hypothesis, we examined two VGSC knockout mouse models with spontaneous seizures: one heterozygous for deletion of the Scn2a gene and the other homozygous for knockout of Scn1b. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed in triplicate on RNA from whole brain and selected brain regions from at least 4 pairs of mutant and wild-type littermate controls to compare transcript levels of all known brain VGSC subunit genes (Scn1a, 2a, 3a, 5a, 8a, and 1b-4b). Results: As expected, in each model we found that the disrupted gene had correspondingly decreased levels of mRNA expression (?65% of wild-type in Scn2aKO/+ and 0% in Scn1bKO/KO mice). In addition, in both models, we found that the expression levels of other VGSC genes did not fall outside of the range of normal biological variation (among wildtype mice on the same strain background) with the exception of Scn5a. This TTX-insensitive VGSC was previously shown in our laboratory to be expressed at low levels in restricted limbic structures of the wild type brain. We found a consistent increase in Scn5a in the B1KO/+ and B1KO/KO mutant whole brain samples, as well as a highly variable increase in the Scn2a KO/+ forebrain samples compared to wildtype littermates. Conclusions: This result demonstrates that deficiency of VGSC alpha and beta subunit genes may lead to dysregulation of other pore forming subunit family members in the developing epileptic brain. These preliminary results in conjunction with cellular resolution analyses may help to define the network contributing to the seizure phenotype in these models. (Supported by an Epilepsy Foundation Pre-Doctoral Research Training Fellowship (SE), and the Wilson Medical Research Foundation (LI  2 Hotchkiss Brain Institute and Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 3 Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: Epilepsy ranks among the top three causes of neurological disability. In the pediatric population, seizure prevalence is estimated at 3?5%, the highest incidence of which is in the first year of life. This is a critical neurodevelopmental epoch and the long-term consequences of these neonatal seizures are not fully known. Thus we sought to determine whether maternal infection alone, or in combination with a neonatal febrile convulsion, affected subsequent seizure susceptibility as well as memory and learning in adults. Methods: Timed-pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were administered either lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 100 ?g/kg, i.p.) or saline (sal; control) on gestational day 15 (G15), to mimic a gram-negative bacterial infection. On postnatal day 14 (P14), febrile convulsions (FC) were induced with LPS (200 ?g/kg) and kainic acid (KA; 1.75 mg/kg), which is known to evoke seizures in about 50% of rats at this age. Two months later, all groups were subjected to learning and memory tasks both before and after an adult seizure. One week prior to evocation of an adult seizure with KA (15 mg/kg) rats were subjected to a contextual fear conditioning paradigm. One week after the adult seizure, rats were then tested for learning and memory in a water maze paradigm. Adult seizures were attenuated within 30 minutes of seizure onset with parenteral diazepam (5 mg/kg) to mimic clinical practice. Results: Prenatal LPS exposure resulted in a trend towards increased neonatal seizure susceptibility at P14 compared to saline-treated controls. Further, a subset of animals with a history of prenatal LPS and FCs showed deficits in learned fear to contextual stimuli compared to cohorts of animals with no prenatal LPS and FC. Rats with a history of prenatal inflammation and postnatal FCs showed enhanced susceptibility to seizures as adults, compared to the control condition (no maternal treatment but suffered FCs). Results of the spatial learning water maze task revealed no statistically significant differences between any groups of rats regardless of prenatal treatment or FC outcome, when the KA provoked seizure were attenuated at 30 minutes. Conclusions: In this study, our findings suggest that prenatal LPS in combination with a neonatal FC alters adult seizure threshold as well as impairs memory performance to contextual fear stimuli. The lack of effect of adult seizure (in any group) on water maze testing, when seizures were attenuated, further emphasizes the importance of early seizure intervention. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), and the Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research (AHFMR).) 1,2 Carl L. Faingold, and 1 Srinivasan Tupal ( 1 Pharmacology, Southern Illinois University Sch. Med., Springfield, IL ; and 2 Neurology, Southern Illinois University Sch. Med., Springfield, IL ) Rationale: In response to acoustic stimulation genetically epilepsy-prone rats (GEPR-9s) exhibit tonic extension audiogenic seizures (AGS). However, with frequent repetitive AGS (audiogenic kindling) seizures increase in duration and an additional behavior, post-tonic clonus (PTC) is induced, which increases in incidence and duration as kindling proceeds. This AGS kindling-induced convulsive behavior change is long-lasting and is considered to be a model of epileptogenesis. Previous studies indicate that plastic changes in the synaptic projection to the lateral nucleus of amygdala (LAMG) are critical in the processes involved in production of PTC. Activation of NMDA receptors in LAMG can transiently cause the emergence of PTC in non-kindled GEPR-9s (NK-GEPR-9s) and conversely, inhibition of NMDA receptors by a NMDA receptor antagonist reversibly blocks PTC in kindled GEPR-9s (K-GEPR-9s). Previous studies of AGS kindling also observed increased expression of an immediate early gene, as indicated by c-fos changes in LAMG. A number of steps in the molecular cascade occur between NMDA receptor activation and c-fos expression, and cAMP is implicated in this cascade. The present study examined whether PTC incidence was altered by focal microinjection into LAMG of agents that alter adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity, which is the enzyme responsible for cAMP production. Methods: GEPR-9s (200?400 g) used in the present study all exhibited tonic hindlimb extension. Audiogenic kindling involved once daily presentation of an electric bell (122 dB SPL re: 0.0002 dyne/cm) for a maximum of 60 sec given on 14 consecutive days. Microinjection cannula guides (21G) were implanted stereotaxically above LAMG bilaterally under ketamine/xylazine (100/3 mg/kg) anesthesia, and all rats continued to exhibit tonic AGS one week after implantation. An AC activator forskolin (50?200 ?Mol/side) or an AC inhibitor (SQ22536, 0.5?1.0 nMol/side), was focally microinjected (at 0.5 ?l/min for 2 min) into LAMG bilaterally via an infusion cannulae (26G). The animals were then tested for AGS at 1, 12, 24 and subsequently every 24 hrs and then once a week. Results: Bilateral microinjection of forskolin caused the appearance of PTC in NK-GEPR-9s in response to presentation of the acoustic stimulus with an onset of 12 hr. However, AGS with PTC continued to be observed thereafter for a minimum of 5 weeks after the single microinjection. The AC inhibitor, SQ22536, transiently blocked PTC in K-GEPR-9s with an onset of 1 hr post microinjection. A complete blockade of seizures was observed at 12 hrs subsequent to which the animals gradually recovered to display a tonic hindlimb extension seizure followed by PTC at 120 hr post microinjection. Conclusions: These data indicate a potentially important role of AC activation in the LAMG in the molecular cascade subserving AGS kindling in GEPR-9s, a model of epileptogenesis. (Supported by SIUSM EAM grant.) 1 Leonardo C. Faria, and 1 Lisa R. Merlin ( 1 Neurology and Physiology and Pharmacology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY ) Rationale: Activation of metabotropic receptors in the CNS elicits long-lasting effects that may participate in epileptogenesis. Many such receptors are linked to phosphoinositide or phosphatidylcholine metabolism, and the resultant DAG production activates protein kinase C (PKC). We used a phorbol ester to activate PKC to determine its effect on picrotoxin-induced network activities in vitro. Methods: 400 ?m transverse guinea pig hippocampal slices were placed in an interface chamber and intracellular recordings were obtained from CA3 stratum pyramidale. Picrotoxin (50 ?M), a GABAA antagonist, was bath-applied to elicit baseline interictal activity (synchronized discharges < 500 ms long), and changes in burst length were monitored following the application of phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu). Bursts were considered ictaform if they met the following three criteria: (1) unaffected by hyperpolarization, (2) the oscillations within each burst slowed in frequency toward the end of the burst, and (3) length of the burst exceeded 1 s, the presumed minimum length for a clinically-correlated experience to potentially occur if the discharge were expressed in vivo. Data are reported as means ± SE; significance was determined using the Student's t-test, with p < 0.05 deemed significant. Results: As phorbol esters activate second messengers, preincubation for at least 30 min is recommended. Yet within 40?60 min, bath application of 1 ?M PDBu typically increased the length of picrotoxin-induced interictal bursts to ictaform events 2?8 s long (mean peak burst length 5.6 ± 0.5 s; latency to produce 1 s ictal-length burst 48 ± 4 min; n = 7 out of 8 slices); this effect persisted for over 1 hr following washout of PDBu. When PDBu was applied in the presence of 10 ?M chelerythrine, a PKC inhibitor, the burst prolongation was either completely prevented (n = 4) or significantly suppressed (peak burst length 2.8 ± 0.7 s; time to ictal-length 68 ± 13 min; n = 6; p < 0.05). Bursts could be blocked by application of either 1 ?M tetrodotoxin (n = 3) or a combination of NMDA and AMPA receptor antagonists (50 ?M D-AP5 and 20 ?M CNQX, respectively; n = 2), suggesting the discharges were synchronized events; no intrinsic oscillatory activity was uncovered during these manipulations. NMDA antagonist alone could not prevent the induction of these bursts, but did reversibly shorten the length of expressed bursts, as did 25 ?M MPEP, an mGluR5 antagonist. While PDBu has been reported previously to enhance glutamate release, bath application of the glutamate reuptake inhibitor L-trans-2,4-PDC (100?200 ?M) was unable to simulate the response seen with PDBu (n = 2). Application of PDBu in the absence of picrotoxin also elicited burst prolongation, but a higher concentration was necessary to result in a similar peak burst length and time to ictal response (2?10 ?M; n = 4). Conclusions: Generalized PKC activation in the hippocampal slice has powerful excitatory effects on network activity with implications toward epileptogenesis. (Supported by NIH NS40387 (L.R.M.).) 1 Luisa P. Flores, 2 Sebastian Ivens, 2,3 Alon Friedman, and 1,4 Daniela Kaufer ( 1 Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA ; 2 Institute of Neurophysiology, Charité University Medicine, Berlin, Germany ; 3 Laboratory for Experimental Neurosurgery, Soroka University Medical Center and Zlotowski Center for Neuroscience, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel ; and 4 Department of Integrative Biology, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA ) Rationale: Different types of cortical injury such as trauma, ischemia and infection are often accompanied by increased permeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). We have recently shown that perturbations in the blood-brain barrier (BBB) may lead to epileptiform activity in the neocortex. We also demonstrated that serum albumin acts as the epileptogenic factor. Our recent data suggest that the action of serum albumin is mediated via its interactions with transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-?) receptors in astrocytes. Following albumin uptake into astrocytes we show that the glial inward rectifying potassium channel, Kir 4.1, was down regulated which results in reduced buffering of extracellular potassium. This, in turn, leads to activity-dependent accumulation of extracellular potassium, resulting in N-methyl-D-asparate (NMDA)-receptor-mediated neuronal hyperexcitability and epileptiform activity. Methods: In order to elucidate the cascade of transcriptional effects following albumin uptake and the consequent TGF-? receptor activation we evaluated expression levels at different time points following induced permeation of BBB, exposure to albumin, or exposure to TGF-?. Genome scale evaluations using DNA microarrays were carried out in conjunction with gene-specific quantitative RT-PCR of pre-selected genes. Results: All three treatments resulted in down regulation of both Kir 4.1 and the glial protein, glutamine synthetase as well as up regulation of the glial fibrillary acidic protein albeit with different time courses. All genes were normalized to ?-Actin which showed no change in expression across all treatments and time points. Analysis of the genome scale expression levels present transcriptional signatures common to all three treatments, revealing the molecular pathway underlying the process of epileptogenesis. Conclusions: Here, we highlight a novel cascade of events following common brain insults leading to brain dysfunction and eventually epilepsy, suggesting possible therapeutic targets. (Supported by the Mary Elizabeth Rennie Epilepsy Foundation.) 1 Corey Flynn, and 1 G. Campbell Teskey ( 1 Department of Psychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Epilepsy is characterized as a chronic brain state with a very low seizure threshold. In people that develop epilepsy, there must be changes in brain functioning that results in a lowered seizure threshold prior to the appearance of the first seizure. Currently there is no animal model of induced epilepsy that allows for the exploration of the neural basis of a low seizure threshold without the elicitation of seizures. For instance stimulation that results in kindling both lowers thresholds and elicits seizures. Likewise the models that develop spontaneous seizures result from a treatment that elicits seizures. In this study we employed repeated application of subthreshold electrical stimulation in an attempt to lower seizure thresholds without eliciting seizures. Methods: Expt 1: Rats were implanted with bipolar stimulating and recording electrodes in the corpus callosum and sensorimotor cortex respectively. Once daily stimulation consisted of biphasic rectangular waves (1 ms, 60 Hz, for 1 sec). A range of stimulation intensities (20, 30, 40, 50, and 500 uA) was used. Prior to, and following 20 stimulation sessions at a single intensity, the afterdischarge (seizure) threshold was determined. Expt 2: The goal of this experiment was to reduce seizure thresholds in the absence of ANY seizures. Because the measurement of afterdischarge threshold (ADT) necessitates one AD, the initial ADT measurement was excluded for Expt 2. The intensity groups chosen for Expt 2 were 20, 50, and 500 uA as well as two additional groups (150, 250 uA). Results: Repeated stimulation at 50 uA was most effective at reducing the ADT in sensorimotor neocortex. However, even at this intensity, it was difficult to achieve a complete absence of seizure activity. Unexpectedly the highest intensity stimulation groups (250, & 500 uA) showed repeated seizure activity but did not show a reduction of ADT. Conclusions: Low intensity electrical stimulation allowed for the reduction of seizure thresholds with few seizures, while high intensity electrical stimulation reliably elicits seizures without lowering seizure thresholds. These two stimulation protocols can be used to dissociate the neural basis of a low seizure threshold from the reorganizing effect of repeated seizures. (Supported by NSERC.) 1 Chris R. French ( 1 Neurology, Monash Medical Centre, Clayton, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: The rapidly activating voltage activated sodium current (Ina(t)) underlies the rapid depolarizing phase of the action potential in most neurons of the central and peripheral nervous system. This current has a rapid (sub-millisecond) activation phase, followed by by a slower (>10 ms) falling phase, termed inactivation. The aim of this study was to better characterise the inactivation process in a mammalian central neuron, and to observe the effects of chemical removal of inactivation on this current. Methods: Hippocampal CA1 neurons (n = 100) were acutely dissociated from female Wistar rats, 2?5 weeks of age, using a pronase-based protocol. Ina(t) was recorded under voltage clamp conditions with the whole-cell patch clamp technique using specially fabricated low-resistance patch electrodes at 20°C. With this method, the rising phase of the sodium current could be resolved. Results: Macroscopic inactivation of Ina(t) was evident at membrane potentials around ?40 mV, had a bi-exponential decay (Fig. 1A), becoming more rapid with greater depolarization (fast and slow time constants of 0.5 and 2.5 ms respectively at 0 mV). The amplitude ratio of the fast and slow components approached a limiting value of 0.7, and the bi-exponential inactivation was remarkably well accounted for by the addition of a second open state in the kinetic description. The steady-state inactivation (hα) relation reached a maximum at ?120 mV, with a half-inactivation voltage of ?71 mV, complete inactivation at ?40 mV and was best fitted by a double Boltzman distribution. Data from double pulse techniques suggested that the time course of macroscopic inactivation reflects the true interconversion rates between open and inactivated states. Similar experiments at subthreshold potentials revealed that transitions from activatable closed states to inactivated states were surprisingly long (?100's of ms) which is likely to affect repetitive firing rates. Addition of the enzyme papaine (1 mg/ml) to the patch-electrode solution resulted a rapid increase in Ina(t) amplitude (?100%) and gradual removal of inactivation, and a negative shift in activation (Figure 1 B,C). Time constants of activation and deactivation were largely unaffected by inactivation removal. Conclusions: These observations reveal major discrepancies between properties of rat CA1 INa(t) and conventional invertebrate models, and suggest that substantial alterations to the Hodgkin-Huxley model must be made to adequately model mammalian CNS excitability.?[figure 1] 1,2 Linda K. Friedman, and 2 Robert Keesey ( 1 Neuroscience, New York College of Osteopathic Medicine, Old Westbury, NY ; and 2 Neuroscience, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ ) Rationale: Sustained increases of intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) following prolonged seizures or other neurological insults are thought to be responsible for neuronal cell death. However, elevated calcium in central neurons does not always lead to neurotoxicity. In fact, under certain circumstances calcium can even protect neurons from dying. Methods: The FURA-2AM dye indicator was used to measure intracellular Ca 2+ after single (1xKA) or multiple (3xKA) episodes of KA seizures that were induced on postnatal (P) days P6, P9 and P13. Slices from control animals were exposed to middle doses of glutamate (30 ?M) and NMDA (30 ?M). Results: Basal Ca 2+ measurements were very consistent and relatively low in control slices prepared from P6, P9, and P13 rat pups. At 5 hrs after a singe episode of status epilepticus at P6, P9 or P13, basal Ca2+ levels in the presence of TTX were elevated in an age-dependent fashion such that CA1/subiculum and DG had the largest concentrations of Ca2+, consistent with early studies (Hammon and Heinemann, 1988). After ratiometric calculations it was found that CA2 and CA3 neurons also increased their Ca2+ concentrations but to a lesser degree. Responses to NMDA were also significantly potentiated in CA1/subiculum and DG at the three perinatal ages examined. Calcium levels returned to baseline in the presence of the selective antagonist NMDA receptor APV. In contrast, after 3xKA, much smaller increases in both Ca2+ baseline and NMDA stimulated responses were observed 5 hrs after the third seizure relative to animals after 1xKA. This decrease in Ca2+ permeability coincides with a reduction in NMDA receptor protein expression in CA1/subiculum rather than the loss of GluR2 subunits that has been observed in adults. A full time course of Ca2+ baseline and agonist and antagonist responses at these early ages will be presented. Quantification of baseline and pharmacological blockade of NMDA receptors will be illustrated by pseudocolor images. Conclusions: Data show that a single episode of KA-induced status epilepticus increases hippocampal sensitivity to NMDA after seizures have subsided. However, multiple perinatal seizures reduce glutamatergic stimulated Ca2+ influx to induce long-lasting tolerance and neuroprotection. (Supported by NJ Neuroscience Institute and New York College of Osteopathic Medicine.) 1,2 Aristea S. Galanopoulou, 1 Ondrej Chudomel, 1 James Heida, and 1,2,3 Solomon L. Moshe ( 1 Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; 2 Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; and 3 Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: Neonatal prolonged seizures may cause long term functional changes which in certain cases may increase the risk for subsequent epilepsy. Using a model of 3 episodes of neonatal kainic acid induced status epilepticus (KA-SE), we have shown that the normal GABAA receptor mediated differentiation of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) and its role in seizure control are disrupted. Here we investigate whether the 3 episodes of neonatal KA-SE also lead to long term changes in GABAA receptor subunit expression, which could alter its sensitivity to GABAAergic drugs. Methods: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to 3 daily episodes of KA-SE at postnatal days (PN) 4, 5, and 6 by intraperitoneal injections of KA (PN4: 1.25 mg/kg; PN5: 1.5 mg/kg; PN6: 2 mg/kg) and were monitored behaviorally for 6 hours daily (n = 8 rats, KA456 group). Micropunches from the anterior SNR were obtained at PN30. RT-PCR using primers specific for the a1 ? a6, b2, g1, g2L, delta GABAA receptor subunits, the rho1 GABAC receptor subunit, and beta-actin were performed. RT-PCR products were electrophoretically separated and compared by densitometry with the subunit expression of control PN30 male anterior SNR (n = 7 rats). Results were referred to beta-actin. Results: Control male PN30 anterior SNR expressed the following subunits: a1 > b2, a5, g2L > g1, a2 > a3, a4, delta, rho1. The a6 subunit was not expressed, whereas low expression of rho1 was detected in 2/7 control rats. In the PN30 KA456 male rats, the following subunits were reduced compared to controls: (1) a1 subunit (P < 0.05, unpaired t-test); (2) the a3 subunit was not present in 5/3 KA456 rats, whereas it was present in all studied controls (chi square P = 0.01); (3) the g1 subunit also tended to be reduced in KA456 males (unpaired t-test P = 0.055). No significant changes in the other subunits were seen. Conclusions: The anterior SNR of PN30 control male rats had a relative dominance of benzodiazepine-sensitive subtypes, over the extrasynaptic and steroid sensitive delta-containing subtypes. The PN30 KA456 male anterior SNR had reduced expression of the a1 and a3, and showed a trend for reduced expression of the g1 subunit. These suggest that the sensitivity to certain benzodiazepine GABAA receptor agonists ? ie those selective for a1, a3, and possibly g1 ? may be reduced in KA456 rat anterior SNR. Since a1-selective GABAAergic drugs can mediate anticonvulsant effects through their actions on the PN30 anterior SNR, further studies are needed to test whether the reduction of a1 subunits in KA456 rats may be a mechanism of drug refractoriness to the anticonvulsant effects of certain GABAAergic drugs, especially those selectively acting on a1-containing receptors. (Supported by NIH NINDS grants NS045243 and NS20253 and a Rett Syndrome Research Foundation grant.) 1 Maciej Gasior, 1 Jessica Yankura, 1 Amy French, 1 Wayne Yonekawa, 1 Adam Hartman, and 1 Michael A. Rogawski ( 1 Epilepsy Research Section, NINDS-NIH, Bethesda, MD ) Rationale: (R,S)-1,3-Butanediol (1,3-BD) is a common food additive that has a long history of safety in various species. 1,3-BD is metabolized by alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases in the liver to form ?-hydroxybutyrate, acetoacetate, and acetone, which are the same ketone bodies whose levels are elevated in the ketogenic diet. Here we sought to determine if 1,3-BD has anticonvulsant effects and could potentially be a replacement for the ketogenic diet. Methods: The anticonvulsant activity of 1,3-BD was assessed in several in vitro and in vivo models. Acute toxicity was determined in the inverted-screen test. To determine the contribution of ketosis to the anticonvulsant efficacy of 1,3-BD, animals were pretreated with the alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor 4-methylpyrazole. In addition, we used the R- and S-enantiomers of 1,3-BD since only the R-enantiomer can be directly converted to acetone. Results: 1,3-BD attenuated epileptiform activity induced by 4-aminopyridine (55 ?M) in rat hippocampal slices in a concentration-dependent manner (10?100 mM). Furthermore, 1,3-BD (1?32 mmol/kg, IP) demonstrated a broad anticonvulsant profile in a variety of seizure tests in mice (iv PTZ test, electroconvulsive threshold, 6-Hz seizure model) and rats (amygdala-kindled seizures). The anticonvulsant effects of 1,3-BD occurred at doses devoid of acute toxicity. After the administration of an anticonvulsant dose of 1,3-BD, levels of the ketone body, ?-hydroxybutyrate, were comparable to those seen in mice exposed to the ketogenic diet for several weeks. Inhibition of 1,3-BD conversion to ketone bodies by 4-methylpyrazole (25 mg/kg) augmented the anticonvulsant effects of 1,3-BD, indicating that 1,3-BD itself has anticonvulsant activity. Like the racemic form of 1,3-BD, the R- and S-enantiomers individually demonstrated robust anticonvulsant properties, demonstrating that conversion to ketone bodies is not required for seizure protection. However, the R-enantiomer was modestly more potent suggesting that ketone bodies could contribute to the anticonvulsant activity. Conclusions: 1,3-BD and its enantiomers are protective in a broad range of seizure models. Conversion to ketone bodies is not required for efficacy, but could augment the activity of the parent. Further studies are required to assess the potential of 1,3-BD or its enantiomers in the treatment of epilepsy. (Supported by NINDS/NIH.) 1 Krista L. Gilby, 2 Thomas N. Ferraro, and 1 Dan C. McIntyre ( 1 Institute of Neuroscience, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada ; and 2 Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Epilepsy and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have recently been established as true co-morbid disorders (Kanner et al., 2003). Fast (seizure-prone) and Slow (seizure-resistant) kindling inbred rat strains, derived via selective breeding, serve as an excellent model for seizure susceptibility, yet Fast rats also exhibit adult behavioral profiles indicative of relative ADHD-like behaviors. In order to begin to explore the genetic basis for relative seizure susceptibility and ADHD-like behaviors in Fast rats, we interbred the two strains and examined adult offspring (F1 hybrid) behaviors. Methods: Male Fast rats were bred with female Slow rats to create an F1 population of hybrid pups. Offspring generated by breeding Fast males with Fast females or Slow males with Slow females served as control populations. As adults, all rats were compared in several behavioral paradigms known to elicit differential responses from Fast and Slow rats including kindling, restraint and open field. Water consumption was also compared. Finally, blood was extracted from all rats and levels of non-esterfied fatty acids (NEFA), known to be deficient in Fast rats, were compared. Results: F1 hybrids showed water consumption and kindling rates that were indistinguishable from Fast rats. Remarkably, however, hybrids exhibited behaviors that were near identical to Slow rats in both the open field and restraint paradigm. Thus, hybrids appear to have maintained the relative seizure susceptibility, but not the ADHD-like behaviors, of their Fast fathers. Further, blood analysis showed that F1 hybrids exhibited the relatively higher NEFA levels characteristic of Slow rats. Conclusions: Results suggest that a primary dominant or semi-dominant genetic effect mediates the differences in kindling rate and water intake between Fast and Slow rats. Lack of a similar finding for other behavioral traits may be due to a maternal genetic influence or the influence of unknown environmental factors. Interestingly, NEFA was higher in hybrids and Slow rats compared to Fast rats, thus implying a link between ADHD-like behaviors and a relative NEFA deficiency. (Supported by CIHR and NSERC to DCM.) 1 Joseph Glykys, and 1 Istvan Mody ( 1 Neuroscience IDP and Deptartment Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Phasic and tonic inhibitions are mediated by synaptic and extrasynaptic GABAA receptors, respectively. Extrasynaptic receptors respond to ambient levels of GABA thought to originate in part from spillover after vesicular release. If both phasic and tonic inhibitions are activated by vesicular GABA release, in any given cell there should be a correlation between the magnitudes of the two types of inhibition. Methods: Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were obtained from hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells and from molecular layer interneurons. In order to measure tonic and phasic inhibitions simultaneously over short periods of time (1 s), we developed a new method of measurement of their mean values (Imean). In addition, simulations of sIPSCs were used to model specific changes in phasic currents. Results: Simulations of sIPSC showed that this new method is highly sensitive and can detect the combined effects of small changes (?15%) in two sIPSC properties (e.g., amplitude and decay time constant) even when the change in each individual parameter is not statistically significant. Using this method we investigated changes in phasic and tonic inhibitions during spontaneous and sucrose induced bursts of sIPSCs recorded in hippocampal interneurons and pyramidal cells. During the bursts there was a large increase (?52 Hz) of sIPSC frequency with a concomitant change in baseline holding current. However, simulations of sIPSC bursts even at much higher frequencies than those actually recorded showed only a minimal contribution of phasic inhibition to the baseline current, thus indicating that tonic inhibition was also activated during the bursts. In addition, we found a strong cross-correlation between phasic and tonic inhibitions when vesicular GABA release was reduced by perfusing TTX + CdCl2. Conclusions: These results are consistent with a significant portion of tonic inhibition being mediated by GABA released from the very vesicles responsible for activating phasic inhibition. Therefore, phasic and tonic inhibitions can be modulated in unison resulting in a compound dampening effect on neuronal excitability. (Supported by the Gonda Fellowship to J.G. and by NS02808, NS30549 and the Coelho Endowment to I.M.) 1 Candan Gurses, 1 Mehmet Kaya, 1 Rivaze Kalayci, 1 Nadir Arican, 1 Bulent Ahishali, 1 Oguzhan Ekizoglu, 1 Imdat Elmas, 1 Mutlu Kucuk, 1 Duran Ustek, 1 Bilge Bilgic, and 1 Gonul Kemikler ( 1 Neurology, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey; Physiology, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey; Research Institute for Experimental Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey; Forensic Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey; Histology, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey; Forensic Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey; Pathology, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey; and Radiotherapy, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey ) Rationale: The aim of the present study is to investigate the influence of hyperthermia on the integrity of blood-brain barrier (BBB) in rats with cortical dysplasia. Methods: In this study, 32 one month old baby Sprague-Dawley rats were used for sodium fluorescein (NaFlu) staining method and 72 more animals were used for other parameters in parallel groups. Study groups consist of a control (8), cortical dysplasia (8), hypertermia (8) and cortical dysplasia and hyperthermia (8) groups. The pregnant rats which have been given sodium pentobarbital anesthesia with the dose of 30 mg/kg intraperitonally, were administered gamma irradiation of 145 cGy from the uterus on day E 17. To induce hyperthermia (39.5 ± 0.5°C), rats were exposed to an elevated ambient temperature (55?60°C) for 30 minutes. Vital signs such as body temperature and arterial blood pressure were also recorded. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot methods were used to show any alterations in occludin protein, and electron microscopy was performed to evaluate structural properties of BBB in this experiment. On the day of the experiment there was no mortality in hyperthermic animals. Results: Blood pressure levels of rats with hyperthermia and rats with hyperthermia as well as cortical dysplasia increased significantly when compared to control values. Seizures the rats had were observed clinically; the longer the duration of hyperthermia was, the more seizures were seen. Both hyperthermia and cortical dysplasia did not change BBB permeability to NaFlu. Hyperthermia induced a generalized increase in BBB permeability to NaFlu in rats with cortical dysplasia and the highest increases (>130% over control values) were recorded in diencephalon and cerebellum regions. Western blot analysis of brain capillaries showed that the expression of the transmembrane tight junction protein occludin was not changed in response to dysplasia and hyperthermia. Conclusions: These results indicate that immature rats are resistant to hypertermic BBB disruption. However, hyperthermia may induce significant BBB permeability increase under cortical dysplastic conditions. We conclude that cortical dysplasia as an underlying pathology could increase the disruption of BBB integrity during hyperthermia. 1 Bj?rnar Hassel, 2 Ray Dingledine, 3 Leif Gjerstad, and 3 Erik Taub?ll ( 1 Division for Environmental Toxicology, Norwegian Defence Research Establishment, Kjeller, Norway ; 2 Department of Pharmacology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ; and 3 Department of Neurology, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ) Rationale: The development of epilepsy, epileptogenesis, involves changes in gene expression. Pharmacological modulation of gene expression has been suggested as an approach to inhibit epileptogenesis. Levetiracetam (LEV) has antiepileptogenic properties, whereas phenytoin (PHT) does not. We hypothesized that regional alteration of gene expression after LEV treatment might point to brain regions that are important for epileptogenesis. Methods: Female Wistar rats were fed perorally with LEV (150 mg/kg) or PHT (75 mg/kg) twice daily for 90 days. N = 7 in each group. Affymetrix oligonucleotide-based microarrays were used to identify regional alterations in gene expression in pons/medulla oblongata, hippocampus and frontal cortex. Results: LEV treatment caused changes in the expression of 65 genes in pons/medulla oblongata, 3 in hippocampus, and 1 in frontal cortex. PHT treatment, in contrast, caused changes in the expression of 3 genes in pons/medulla oblongata, 64 genes in hippocampus, and 322 genes in frontal cortex. Very little overlap between regions or drug treatments was observed with respect to affected genes. Median serum drug concentration 4?6 h after last dose was 231 ?mol LEV/L and 50 ?mol PHT/L. Conclusions: We conclude that antiepileptic drug treatment may cause dramatic and region-specific changes in mRNA levels, possibly reflecting their different action on receptors and ion channels in the plasma membrane. The finding that gene expression was altered predominantly in pons/medulla oblongata after LEV suggests that this brain region, which i.a. harbours monoaminergic and cholinergic projection neurons, may be important for epileptogenesis. 1 Matthew H. Higgs, 2 Carol A. Robbins, and 1,2,3 William J. Spain ( 1 Physiology and Biophysics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 3 Neurology, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: High-frequency spike bursts have been recorded in neocortical pyramidal neurons in vivo. Burst firing may promote epileptic discharges by increasing firing rate, synchronizing firing at high frequencies, and increasing neurotransmitter release at facilitating synapses. It is unclear whether bursts primarily reflect the pattern of synaptic input or intrinsic cellular properties. In some pyramidal neurons repetitive bursting occurs during direct current (DC) stimulation, but in most bursting is absent or appears only at the onset of current steps. In order to determine how intrinsic cellular properties shape firing patterns of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons during input with rapid fluctuations characteristic of in vivo synaptic excitation, we applied broadband noise stimuli. Methods: Coronal slices of rat sensorimotor cortex were superfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid (34°C) containing blockers of ionotropic glutamate and GABA receptors. Intracellular recordings were obtained from 21 regular-spiking neurons in layer 2/3 using sharp microelectrodes filled with 2.7 M KCl and 1% biocytin. The location and pyramidal morphology of most cells were confirmed by biocytin histochemistry. Neurons were stimulated with broadband current noise (1 ms exponential relaxation) in combination with a DC offset that was usually set near spike threshold. Results: All of the neurons tested fired regularly during DC stimuli, without repetitive bursting. However, 19/21 cells generated a mixture of single spikes and bursts of two or more spikes during noise stimuli. Raising the noise amplitude or the DC offset increased burst frequency, while the mean duration of intra-burst intervals remained nearly constant at approximately 10 milliseconds. The interval-dependent firing probability (hazard function) during high-noise stimulation roughly corresponded to the post-spike voltage trajectory, which is shaped by a fast afterhyperpolarization (fAHP), a fast afterdepolarization (fADP), and a medium-duration afterhyperpolarization (mAHP). Increasing the fAHP conductance by spike-triggered dynamic current clamp had little effect on regular spiking to DC stimuli but strongly reduced stochastic bursting. Conclusions: Our results suggest that intrinsic properties of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons, including their small fAHP and prominent fADP, create an intrinsic resonance that is usually subthreshold during firing to DC stimuli but promotes bursting with an intra-burst frequency of approximately 100 Hz during noisy excitation. This frequency is similar to that of ripples observed in extracellular and EEG recordings during neocortical seizures, suggesting that high-frequency resonance in regular-spiking pyramidal neurons may contribute to epileptic discharges. (Supported by a Veterans Affairs Merit Review to W.J.S.) 1 Kristin L. Hillman, 1 Van A. Doze, and 1 James E. Porter ( 1 Pharmacology, Physiology and Therapeutics, University of North Dakota School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Grand Forks, ND ) Rationale: Norepinephrine (NE) has been shown to have anti-epileptic effects both in vitro and in vivo. One area of the brain where this has been demonstrated is the hippocampus. We hypothesize that NE exerts its anti-epileptic effect in the hippocampus in part through activation of an α1 adrenergic receptor (AR) located on a specific subset of CA1 GABAergic interneurons. Methods: Hippocampal slices prepared from young rats were used for all studies. Functional Studies: To determine the specific AR subtype expressed by CA1 interneurons, a panel of subtype specific AR agonists and antagonists was utilized. Cell-attached recordings were conducted under IR/DIC optics, with aCSF perfusion enabling drug delivery in timed increments. Action potential frequency of the interneuron was recorded, plotted as a concentration response curve, and analyzed by Schild regression. To determine if NE promotes GABA release in CA1, cell-attached and whole-cell recordings were conducted on pyramidal cells. NE challenges were made in normal aCSF and then aCSF containing GABA receptor antagonists. Molecular Studies: Cytoplasm was collected from NE-responsive CA1 interneurons and used for single-cell RT PCR. The resulting cDNA template was profiled in terms of AR subtype, neuronal cell type, and neuropeptide expression using real time PCR. Results: 6-fluoronorepinephrine (6FNE), an α AR agonist, produced a dose-dependent increase in action potential frequency in ?50% of CA1 interneurons. The response to 6FNE could be blocked by the α1 AR antagonist prazosin, but not by the α2 AR antagonist rauwolscine, suggesting that NE-responsive interneurons express an α1 AR. Subsequent studies performed with the α1 AR subtype specific antagonists 5-methylurapidil, WB 4101, L-765,314, and BMY7378 produced Schild regressions that suggested predominate functional expression of the α1A AR. Molecular analysis of NE-responsive CA1 interneurons revealed transcripts for the α1A and α1B AR, the neuropeptide somatostatin and the GABAergic enzyme glutamate decarboxylase. Initial recordings from pyramidal cells suggest that α1 AR activation decreases the activity of these cells, an effect that is attenuated by GABA blockade. Conclusions: We have identified a distinct subset of somatostatin expressing, GABAergic CA1 interneurons that respond to NE via an α1A AR. Adrenergic activation of these interneurons appears to increase the amount of GABA released to pyramidal cells. These findings elucidate one mechanism by which NE may be exerting an anti-epileptic effect in the hippocampus, and furthermore identify a specific receptor subtype that may serve as a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of epilepsy. (Supported by a pre-doctoral fellowship from the American Epilepsy Society.) 1 Gregory L. Holmes, and 1 Pierre-Pascal J. Lenck-Santini ( 1 Neurocience Center at Dartmouth, Dartmouth Medical School, Lebanon, NH ) Rationale: Interictal spikes (IS) are morphologically defined, episodic, transient EEG discharges that occur as a result of synchronous, paroxysmal depolarization of neurons resulting in a series of action potentials. The localization of focal IS correspond closely to the site of the seizure focus and IS remain one of the most important diagnostic features on the EEG. In humans there is a clear relationship between state and IS. Inactivity, drowsiness, and sleep are potent activators of IS. The relationship between IS and state in rodents is less clear. In this experiment, we investigated the relationship between theta and IS in the rat pilocarpine model. Methods: Fifteen 60 day old rats 15 P60 rats were treated by lithium/pilocarpine and underwent status epilepticus. Among these animals, five showed spontaneous seizures and interictal spikes two months after status epilepticus induction. They were implanted with a multielectrode array driving electrodes in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus so that bipolar differential recordings above and bellow the cell layer could be performed. Rats were trained to perform two types of behavioral task: 1) Pellet chasing task: rats were trained to forage for pellets randomly scattered in a circular open field arena 2) Linear track shuttle: rats were trained to shuttle between the two ends of a linear track. Hippocampal EEG theta/delta ratios, the ratio of the sum of the power-spectrum in the theta band (6?12Hz) by the sum of the power-spectrum in the delta band (1?5Hz), were performed in both tasks. Results: Strikingly, we found that more IS were observed in sessions with a low hippocampal theta/delta ratio than during periods with high ratios. Within the same session, IS appeared during low theta behaviors (either standing or walking at a speed of <10 cm/sec, ratios ranging from 0 to 4) and disappeared in high locomotion, high theta periods (speed > 10cm/sec, ratio > 4). Pepe add a figure showing this or the EEG versus spikes. Conclusions: These results show that there is a strong correlation between theta and IS. During theta activity IS are suppressed; during periods of decreased theta IS are activated. The relationship between theta and IS demonstrate that as in humans, there is a role of general arousal systems in IS modulation. IS modulation in rodents can be used to model the human condition. [figure 1] (Supported by Western Massachusetts Epilepsy Awareness Fund, Friends of Shannon McDermott, Sara Fund, and NINDS (Grants: NS27984 and NS44295).) 1 Xiaoying Huang, 1 Qian Yang, and 1 Jian-young Wu ( 1 Physiology and Biophysics, Georgetown University, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Spiral waves are a basic feature of nature and have been observed in a variety of biological systems, but spiral dynamics have not been studied in mammalian cortex. If spirals exist in the cortex, the robust dynamics of the spiral waves may contribute to sustaining seizure activity, strategies of disrupting formation of spirals may be used to disrupt seizure activity. Methods: We used optical imaging with voltage-sensitive dyes to examine seizure-like events induced by carbachol and bicuculline in rat neocortical slices and in rat cortex in vivo. Slices from visual cortex were sectioned in a tangential plane containing cortical layers III-V. The slices were stained with an absorption dye, NK3630 before imaging, and the signals from the stained tissue were recorded by a photodiode array. In vivo imaging was performed over visual cortex in adult rats. The animals were anesthetized with urethane while a craniotomy window of 5 mm in diameter was created. The cortex was stained by a fluorescent dye RH1691, and fluorescent signals were recorded by a photodiode array. Results: The seizure-like oscillations occurred spontaneously in vitro and in vivo when the drugs were applied. The oscillations were organized spatiotemporally as propagating waves, and complex wave patterns such as spiral, plane, ring and irregular waves were observed both in slices and in vivo. These wave patterns alternated within one oscillation epoch, suggesting the patterns were dynamically organized. Spiral waves, occurred in about 50% of recording trials in slices but were rarely seen in vivo. We examined the initiation of spiral waves in slices and found that collision of two wave fronts usually occurred prior to the initiation of spiral waves. The spiral waves were very stable in slices, some sustained for up to 30 rotations, but spirals in vivo only lasted for a few cycles. In brain slices, ?phase singularity?, a hallmark of spiral waves, can be clearly identified at spiral center as substantial reduction in signal amplitude and a circular phase distribution around it. Phase analysis of the spiral center and surrounding areas suggested that the amplitude reduction was caused by superimposition of multiple widely distributed phases. Conclusions: Our results suggest that spiral dynamics may exist in neocortex during seizure-like activity and may contribute to the sustaining of seizure events. (Supported by a fellowship from Epilepsy Foundation and NIH NS36447.) 1 Shin-Ichi Imamura, 3 Shigeya Tanaka, 2 Koichi Akaike, 4 Hideshi Tojo, 2 Motofumi Kasugai, 2 Hideyuki Matsukubo, 2 Akira Sano, and 1 Kazunori Arita ( 1 Neurosurgery, Kagoshima University, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; 2 Neuropsychiatry, Kagoshima University, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; 3 Neurosurgery, Tanaka Neurosurgical Clinic, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; and 4 Neurosurgery, Koyokai Himawari Hospital, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ) Rationale: To elusidate an antiepileptic property of gabapentine, we applied this agent to status epilepticus models induced by subcutaneous administration of kainic acid (KA). Methods: Experiments were carried out on 12 male Wistar rats undergone stereotactic implantation of electrodes in the bilateral amygdala, the bilateral dorsal hippocampus, and the bilateral sensorimotor cortex. All received subcutaneous administration of KA (10 mg/kg) to elicit status epilepticus. Thirty min after that, gabapentine (dissolved with distilled water, 30 mg/mL) was administrated intraperitoneally (2mL/kg) (gabapentine group, n = 6), while the rest received intraperitoneal administration of distilled water only (control, n = 6). Results: Ten to 20 min after KA administration, seizure discharges initially appeared in the bilateral amygdala and the bilateral dorsal hippocampus, and then propagated to the bilateral sensorimotor cortex. All rats showed status epilepticus 30 min after KA administration. In gabapentine group, seizure activity of the bilateral sensorimotor cortex decreased 15?30 min after gabapentine administration, whereas those of the bilateral amygdala and hippocampus remained unchanged. Unlike gabapentine group, seizure activity stayed unaltered in control. Conclusions: Gabapentine may show an antiepileptic effect by reducing the seizure propagation to the bilateral sensorimotor cortex. 1 Laura A. Jansen, and 2 Jeffrey G. Ojemann ( 1 Division of Pediatric Neurology, Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center and University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center and University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Pediatric epilepsy due to areas of focal cortical dysplasia is often intractable to anticonvulsant treatment. Many of the medications used unsuccessfully in treating this disorder, such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines, ACTH, and topiramate, are thought to exert at least a portion of their action through enhancement of inhibitory neurotransmission via GABA-A receptors. In the present study, GABA-A receptor properties in resected epileptogenic brain tissue from four children with intractable epilepsy and focal cortical dysplasia were measured to determine if this clinical resistance to pharmacologic treatment correlates with alterations in receptor responsiveness to these agents. Methods: Operative resection of the epileptogenic zones was performed, with pathologic diagnoses of focal cortical dysplasia type 2A. Portions of the epileptogenic cortex were flash frozen at the time of surgery and maintained at ?80° C until use. The tissue was homogenized and subjected to a series of centrifugation steps to isolate the membrane fraction. This fraction was resuspended and injected into Xenopus oocytes, resulting in incorporation of brain membrane vesicles into the oocyte cellular membrane. Two-electrode voltage clamp analysis was performed 18?72 hours after injection, at which time GABA-A receptor currents were easily measured. Results: Functional characterization of GABA-A receptor properties was performed, including agonist potency, current-voltage relationship, current rundown, and responses to benzodiazepines, barbiturates, neurosteroids, topiramate, and zinc. Results from epileptic cortex were compared with those from non-epileptic autopsy and surgical control samples. Experimentally determined receptor properties were correlated with patient age and clinical characteristics. Conclusions: These studies of GABA-A receptor function in children with intractable epilepsy due to focal cortical dysplasia provide valuable insight into the mechanisms of anticonvulsant resistance in this disorder. (Supported by NIH NINDS K08 NS52454.) 1 Stuart Jarrett, 1 Li-Ping Liang, 2 Jennifer L. Hellier, 2 Philip A. Williams, 2 Volodymyr I. Dzhala, 2 Jethro P. Jones, 2 Kevin J. Staley, and 1 Manisha N. Patel ( 1 Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado ; and 2 Pediatrics and Medicine, University of Colorado, Denver, CO ) Rationale: Epilepsy is a recent addition to the diverse neurological disorders in which mitochondrial oxidative stress and dysfunction has been implicated as a contributing factor. Studies in our laboratory have shown that status epilepticus (SE) produces oxidative stress that originates primarily from the mitochondria. An important consequence of mitochondrial free radical production is the oxidative damage of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). The goal of this study was to determine if acute or chronic epileptic seizures result in oxidative damage to mtDNA and if this activates mtDNA repair. Methods: Oxidative damage to mtDNA base 8-hydroxy-2'deoxyguanosine (8OHdG/2dG), mtDNA damage (quantitative polymerase chain reaction; QPCR), and changes in the base excision repair (BER) proteins (polymerase gamma; pol ? and 8-oxoguanine glycosylase; Ogg1) were determined in mitochondria from the rat hippocampus at various times following acute kainate-induced status epilepticus (SE) or chronic kainate-induced epilepsy. To investigate acute SE, rats were injected with a single 12 mg/kg dose of kainate and sacrificed at 24h, 48h, 96h, 7d, 21d post-treatment. To investigate kainate-induced epilepsy, rats were injected with multiple low-dose injections of kainate (5 mg/kg) and sacrificed ≥3 months post-treatment. Rats displaying class IV-V seizures up to 6hr after the initial kainate injection (12 mg/kg; s.c.) as determined using a modified Racine's scale) were used for subsequent studies. Results: Acute kainate-induced SE produced a time-dependent increase in mitochondrial, but not nuclear 8OHdG/2dG levels and mtDNA damage in the hippocampus (not cerebellum). MtDNA lesions returned to control levels after 96 hr. MtDNA damage was accompanied by a significant increase in hippocampal pol ? and Ogg1 mRNA and protein levels. In epileptic rats, mtDNA damage was significantly higher in the hippocampus compared to the cerebellum. In addition, a significant reduction in pol ? protein expression was observed in the hippocampus, but not in the cerebellum. By contrast, no significant differences in Ogg1 protein levels were observed. Conclusions: These data demonstrate oxidative mtDNA damage and activation of BER following SE. In chronically epileptic rats, hippocampal mtDNA lesions occurred concurrently with a reduction of pol ? repair enzyme. Together, changes in the mitochondrial BER pathway and increased mtDNA lesions provide further evidence for mitochondrial oxidative stress in the epileptic brain. Following acute SE, BER mechanisms are induced to attempt the repair mtDNA lesions. However, chronic epileptic seizures results in a failure of some BER enyzmes and consequent mtDNA lesions which could in turn contribute to the increased seizure susceptibility and development of epilepsy. (Supported by NIH RO1NS039587.) 1 Alicia L. Jensen, and 1 Dominique M. Durand ( 1 Deptartment of Biomedical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The effect of deep brain stimulation (DBS), also known as high frequency stimulation (HFS), on neural elements close to the stimulating electrode remains an important question. Although computational studies have suggested that HFS has a dual effect on neural elements (inhibiting cell bodies, while exciting axons), experimental evidence of these effects is conflicting and unclear. The current study investigates the hypothesis that HFS suppresses axonal conduction. HFS application to the axon tracts themselves may provide novel, direct control for disrupting the propagation of seizure activity between brain regions. Methods: Experiments were carried out using in-vitro brain slices. Extracellular recording electrodes were positioned in the CA1 stratum pyramidale and/or alvear axon field to mointor evoked potentials. Electrical stimulation (0.5 Hz) was applied in the alveus producing compound action potentials (CAPs). Sinusoidal HFS (50Hz-10kHz) was applied to a third electrode located between the stimulating and recording electrodes. Filtering was used to remove the large stimulation artifact. Antidromic evoked field potential and compound action potential amplitude, width, and latency were analyzed prior, during, and post HFS. Extracellular potassium levels were monitored using single barreled ion-selective microelectrodes. Results: Sinusoidal stimulation suppresses activity in cell bodies (evoked potentials) and axons (compound action potentials). Suppression was dependent on HFS amplitude and frequency, but independent of stimulus duration and synaptic input. The frequency range of this effect is nearly identical to that reported for DBS, with maximal suppression between 50 and 200Hz. At 2kHz, the suppression effect disappeared. The suppression effect was independent of synaptic transmission, and could not be attributed to desynchronization or damage. Suppression of axonal conduction was associated with an increase in extracellular peak potassium concentration (r= 0.92), with complete suppression at a peak potassium threshold of 8.25mM. Bath application of elevated potassium produced significant suppression of axonal activity in 12 mM and 15mM KCl ACSF. However, 8.5 mM bath potassium levels failed to block axonal activity. Conclusions: Sinusoidal HFS suppresses axonal conduction. The frequency dependence of these suppression effects is identical to that observed for DBS in Parkinson's disease. Although the mechanism for HFS suppression is not known, damage to cells, increased inhibition, and desynchonization have been ruled out. An increase in extracellular potassium has been associated with the suppression effect; however, the potassium concentration decays significantly during stimulation while HFS suppression remains high. It is therefore likely, that, depolarization block is partially responsible for the effect. However, other mechanisms must play a role. (Supported by National Institutes of Health, the Epilepsy Foundation, and the Department of Education GAANN Fellowship program.) 1 Jenine E. John, 1 Shirn L. Baptiste, 1 Geza Medveczky, 2 Hans Von Gizycki, 1 Ruben I. Kuzniecky, 1 Orrin Devinsky, and 1 Nandor Ludvig ( 1 Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY ; and 2 Scientific Computing Center, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY ) Rationale: This study was part of our ongoing effort to identify an ideal drug combination for seizure-controlling subdural Hybrid Neuroprostheses. We have recently shown that in freely moving rats, epidurally delivered pentobarbital can prevent and terminate neocortical seizures induced by localized acetylcholine (Ach) application (Ludvig et al., Epilepsia, 2006; in press). The present experiments were designed to obtain information on whether epidurally applied neurotransmitters, specifically GABA and adenosine, can also exert similar effects in rats. Methods: Each rat was implanted with an epidural cup placed above the right parietal cortex. Epidural EEG electrodes were positioned adjacent to the posterior edge of the cup. After a 6?7-day recovery period, bipolar EEG recordings were conducted in a Faraday cage, using a cable with built-in operational amplifiers to eliminate movement artifacts. For focal seizure induction, 274 mM Ach was delivered into the epidural cup. After a 15-min exposure to Ach, a combination of 250 mM GABA and 5 mM adenosine was delivered into the cup and kept there for a 10-min period. Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was used to determine the maximum and average power (?V2) of the low-beta (13?20 Hz) frequency band before drug deliveries, during Ach exposure and after the delivery of the GABA/adenosine combination. Results: Ach induced EEG seizures within 390 ± 30 (mean ± S.E.M.) sec, which were accompanied by clonic convulsions. During EEG seizures, there was an increase in maximum power from 13.8 ± 10.3 to 36.2 ± 22 along with an increase in average power from 4.7 ± 2.8 to 8.9 ± 4.9. Delivery of the GABA/adenosine combination fully terminated the ongoing Ach-induced EEG seizures and convulsions within 33.5 ± 21.5 sec. This GABA/adenosine effect was reflected in the reduction of the maximum power from 36.2 ± 22 to 17.2 ± 9.2 and that of the average power from 8.9 ± 4.9 to 3.9 ± 2.3. The EEG power values after GABA/adenosine delivery were comparable to those obtained in the normal, pre-seizure state. Abnormal electrographic signs following epidural exposure to this drug combination were not observed. Conclusions: The combination of GABA and adenosine, delivered onto the surface of dura mater, can fully terminate Ach-induced neocortical EEG seizures and their behavioral manifestations. This suggests that: (1) at least a portion of the GABA and/or adenosine molecules can diffuse through the meninges into the underlying neocortical tissue, and (2) this treatment can terminate locally induced neocortical seizures. Further studies are required to thoroughly determine the efficacy of GABA and adenosine in terminating, and perhaps preventing, focal neocortical seizures upon epidural/subdural deliveries. (Supported by NYU/FACES.) 1 Motofumi Kasugai, 1 Koichi Akaike, 1 Shin-Ichi Imamura, 1 Hideyuki Matsukubo, 1 Hideshi Tojo, 1 Shigeya Tanaka, and 1 Akira Sano ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Field of Social and Behavioral Medicine, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagishima, Kagishima, Japan; Department of Neurosurgery, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagishima, Kagishima, Japan; and Neurosurgery, Tanaka Neurosurgical Clinic, Kagishima, Kagishima, Japan ) Rationale: Previously, we investigated seizures following microinjection of the kainic acid (KA) into the left amygdala (LA) in mice with different strains, C57BL/6 (B6) and FVB/N (FVB). We reported that mice of the FVB strain show more seizure susceptibility than those of the B6 in the KA-induced amygdalar seizures. However, the details of the genes responsible for such difference remain obscure. In the present study, we crossed male B6 with female FVB to produce an F1 generation, and made seizure models of the F1. Methods: Male B6 were crossed with female FVB to produce an F1 generation. The F1 (n = 6) underwent implantation of electrodes in the LA and the left sensorimotor cortex (LCx). Stainless cannula was also inserted into the LA for KA injection. All animals received KA injection into the LA (0.5 microg) to induce seizures, Electroencephalographic and behavioral observation was made for 48 hours, and the voltages of the spike were statically analized. Mice then were decapitated and histologic studies including analysis of the neuronal density of the CA3 in the hippocampus were carried out. Results: On electoroencephalograms (EEGs), multiple spike discharges initially appeared in the LA within 10?20 min after KA injection and mouth and facial movement were behaviorally observed. At 20?60 min after KA injection, the seizure discharge propagated to the LCx. Within 60?90 min after KA injection the amplitude of the multiple spike discharges increased. Behaviorally, the animals demonstrated seizure motor manifestation such as head nodding, forelimb clonus, rearing and falling. During ictal EEG change, all mice showed only immobilization, lasting 1?2 min and recurring every 10?20 min. At 48 hours after KA injection multiple spike discharges were disappeared. Neuronal damage in the CA3 region was moderated. Conclusions: In the KA-induced amygdalar seizures, it is likely that mice of the F1 show resistant to seizure susceptibility similar to B6. Further examination related to genetic factor will be needed. (Supported by Grant-in-Aid for Encouragement of Young Scientists from the Ministry of Education, Sciences, and Culture of Japan.) 1 Mehmet Kaya, 1 Rivaze Kalayci, 1 Nadir Arican, 1 Candan Gurses, 1 Bulent Ahishali, 1 Oguzhan Ekizoglu, 1 Imdat Elmas, 1 Mutlu Kucuk, 1 Duran Ustek, 1 Bilge Bilgic, and 1 Gonul Kemikler ( 1 Physiology, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey; Research Institute for Experimental Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey; Forensic Medicine, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey; Neurology, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey; Histology, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey; Pathology, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey; and Radiotherapy, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey ) Rationale: The cellular mechanisms underlying epileptogenesis in the setting of cortical dysplasia are still poorly understood. In this study, the changes in the blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity after pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-kindling were investigated in rats with cortical dysplasia. To show the changes in the expression of occludin, immunohistochemical and Western blot methods as well as electron microscopy were used. Methods: In this study, 38 young adult Sprague-Dawley rats were used for NaFlu staining method and 108 animals were used for other parameters in parallel groups. Study groups consist of a control (8), cortical dysplasia (10), kindling (10) and cortical dysplasia in addition to kindling and PTZ groups (10). The day of insemination was taken as the embryonic (E) day 0. The pregnant rats which have been given sodium pentobarbital anesthesia with the dose of 30 mg/kg, were administered gamma irradiation of 145 cGy from the uterus on day E 17. The baby rats were given 30 mg/kg PTZ three times per week intraperitoneally to induce kindling model starting from the 2nd week after birth to the 8th week. The changes in the expression of occludin, which is a tight junction protein in BBB, were shown by using immunohistochemical and Western blot methods in addition to electron microscopy. Results: While the arterial blood pressure remained at the control blood pressure values in the rats of cortical dysplasia and cortical dysplasia in addition to kindling groups, application of acute PTZ increased the blood pressure level significantly. The amount of NaFlu dye did not convey a remarkable increase in these rats. However, after seizures induced by PTZ application in the rats of cortical dysplasia and cortical dysplasia in addition to kindling groups, BBB permeability increased siginificantly. Conclusions: In the groups of rats with cortical displasia and PTZ kindled rats with cortical displasia no BBB permeability alterations were observed. However, in the dysplasia+kindling group of rats with acutely induced seizures after being given PTZ, a significant alteration of BBB permeability was seen. This shows that displasia with kindling model is more responsive to acute seizures at least in terms of BBB permeability. 1 Kevin M. Kelly, 1 Hong Xu, 1 Guo Yin, 1 Peter Jukkola, 1 Elena Kharlamov, and 1 Kebin Zeng ( 1 Department of Neurology, Allegheny General Hospital, Center for Neuroscience Research, Allegheny-Singer Research Institute, Pittsburgh, PA; and Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Biological aging is associated with an increasing incidence of functional deficits in multiple organ systems as well as a growing risk of disease. In the brain, age-related alterations in GABAergic inhibitory system may occur resulting in increased neuronal excitability and the generation of epileptiform discharges. The goal of this study was to determine whether there were significant age-related changes of GABAergic synaptic inhibition to pyramidal neurons of layer II/III of the sensorimotor cortex. Methods: Whole-cell patch clamp techniques were used to record postsynaptic currents (PSCs) and spontaneous and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs and mIPSCs) from layer II/III pyramidal neurons in sensorimotor cortical slices of young adult (4 month old, n = 9) and aged (20 month old, n = 9) Fischer 344 rats. Analysis was performed on PSCs and sIPSCs recorded from 44 pyramidal neurons (young, n = 23; aged, n = 21) and mIPSCs recorded from 29 of the 44 pyramidal neurons (young, n = 15; aged, n = 14). Results: For aged animals, compared with young adult animals: 1) the amplitude of mIPSCs increased significantly (?55% higher than that of young animals, 25.72 ± 2.50pA in young vs.39.87 ± 3.82pA in aged), whereas PSC and sIPSC amplitude had no significant change; 2) the 10?90% rise time of PSCs increased significantly (?19% longer than that of young animals, 3.92 ± 0.29ms in young animals vs. 4.65 ± 0.20ms in aged animals)and sIPSCs (?18% longer than that of young animals, 3.97 ± 0.26ms in young animals vs.4.66 ± 0.21ms in aged animals),whereas mIPSC 10?90% rise time had no significant change; 3) The PSC, sIPSC, and mIPSC decay time constant was similar; 4) The charge transfer of PSCs and sIPSCs was similar, whereas the mIPSC charge transfer demonstrated a trend toward increase (?50% higher than that of young animals); 5) there were significant increases in the frequency of PSCs (?130% higher than that of young animals), sIPSCs (?127% higher than that of young animals), and mIPSCs (?144% higher than that of young animals). Conclusions: GABAA-receptor mediated synaptic inhibition of sensorimotor cortex layer II/III pyramidal neurons is enhanced with age. This enhancement of GABAergic inhibitory synaptic transmission may lead to significant alterations in cortical signaling activity that may be associated with an increased propensity for epileptogenesis in the aging brain. (Supported by R01 NS046015 to KMK.) 1 Do Young Kim, and 1 Jong M. Rho ( 1 Neurology Research, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: It is well known that oxidative stress disrupts normal synaptic transmission and contributes to cellular injury and hyperexcitability. Seizure activity is also known to increase oxidative neuronal damage, which in turn can impair long-term potentiation (LTP), a model of learning and memory. Recently, we have shown that ketone bodies (KB) strongly suppress hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced oxidative stress in neocortical neurons via activation of mitochondrial KATP(mKATP) channels (Kim et al., 2005 Soc Neurosci Abstr). In the present study, we asked whether KB and diazoxide (DZ, an activator of mKATP channels) can protect against oxidative impairment of LTP in rat hippocampus. Methods: Acute hippocampal slices were prepared from Wistar rats (3?5 weeks), and extracellular field recordings were made in CA1 in the presence of various substrates. Schaffer collaterals were stimulated to evoke population spikes (PS) in the stratum pyramidale, and the stratum radiatum was stimulated using a theta-burst protocol (5 trains delivered at 0.2 Hz; each train consisting of five simulations, 0.1 ms, 100 Hz) to induce long-term potentiation (LTP). Results: H2O2 (2 mM, 15 min application alone) strongly inhibited the field population spike (PS) by over 80%. Pretreatment of KB (acetoacetate and D-?-hydrobutyrate, 1 mM each) or DZ (100 ?M) for 10 min prior to H2O2 administration resulted in only a slight depression of PS amplitude (18% and 10%, respectively). The protective effects of KB and DZ were dose-dependent, and were completely reversed by 5-hydroxydecanoate (200 ?M; 5-HD, a mitoKATP blocker). In additional experiments, H2O2 (200 ?M) strongly suppressed LTP induction and maintenance. Neither KB (3 mM alone or applied as a 1:1 cocktail) nor DZ exerted any significant effects on TBS-induced LTP. However, co-application of KB or DZ completely prevented H2O2-induced impairment of LTP. On the other hand, pre-treatment with 5-HD reversed the protective effects of KB and DZ. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that KB can restore oxidative stress-induced impairment of normal synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Furthermore, the underlying neuroprotective mechanisms may involve modulation of mitochondrial KATP channels. (Supported by NIH grant NS 044846 (JMR) and the Barrow Neurological Foundation.) 1 Yeong-In Kim, 2 Hong-Ki Song, 1 Young-Min Sohn, 3 Ji-Eun Kim, and 3 Tae-Cheon Kang ( 1 Neurology, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea ; 2 Neurology, Hallym University, Seoul, Korea ; and 3 Anatomy, Hallym University, Chuncheon, Gangwondo, Korea ) Rationale: Riluzole may be one of candidates as supplementary medications for treatment of epilepsy. However, there is little information about the anti-epileptic effect of riluzole, since evaluation of this drug has been mostly performed in normal animals. Therefore, the comparison of effects of riluzole with valproic acid (VPA) was conducted in the pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epilepsy model (a complex partial seizure model) and the ?-hydroxybutyrate lactone (GBL)-induced absence seizure models. Methods: Following VPA or riluzole treatment, electrophysiological and immunohistochemical studies were performed in pilocarpine- or GBL-induced epilepsy models. Results: Both VPA and riluzole treatment saliently reduced vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) immunoreactivities and fEPSP slope. Riluzole treatment completely inhibited pre-ictal spikes and spike-wave discharges (SWD) in pilocarpine- and GBL-induced epilepsy model, although VPA treatment partially inhibited. Both VPA and riluzole reduced paired-pulse inhibition in the pilocarpine-induced epilepsy model. In the GBL-absence seizure model, riluzole enhanced paired-pulse inhibition, but VPA reduced it. Conclusions: These results suggest that inhibition of presynaptic glutamate release by riluzole may be more effective to reduce seizure activity both in complex partial seizure and in absence seizure than VPA. 1,2,4 Merab Kokaia, 2,4 Sara Bonde, 2,4 Katherine Jakubs, 2,4 Avtandil Nanobashvili, 2,4 Christine T. Ekdahl, 3,4 Zaal Kokaia, and 2,4 Olle Lindvall ( 1 Experimental Epilepsy Group, Section of Restorative Neurology, Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Lund University Hospital, Lund, Sweden ; 2 Laboratory of Neurogenesis and Cell Therapy, Section of Restorative Neurology, Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Lund University Hospital, Lund, Sweden ; 3 Laboratory of Neural Stem Cell Biology, Section of Restorative Neurology, Stem Cell Institute, Lund University Hospital, Lund, Sweden ; and 4 Lund Strategic Research Center for Stem Cell Biology and Cell Therapy, Lund, Sweden ) Rationale: Neurogenesis continues in the adult mammalian brain from neural stem/progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus subgranular zone (SGZ). Status epilepticus (SE) triggers increased SGZ cell proliferation. Intracellular recordings from the aberrant hilar neurons in hippocampal slices from epileptic rats indicate that they retain the intrinsic properties of granule cells. However, they exhibit abnormal pro-epileptogenic burst firing in synchrony with CA3 pyramidal cells, suggesting that the new hilar neurons contribute to the epileptic condition. The functional characteristics of the majority of the new cells generated in the epileptic brain, which are located at their normal site in the granule cell layer, have not been investigated. Methods: We have used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings to determine how a pathological environment influences the electrophysiological properties and functional integration of the new cells in the GCL. New neurons were labeled through intrahippocampal injection of RV-GFP and we compared those generated following voluntary running, i.e., a physiological stimulus, with cells formed after SE, i.e., a brain insult. Results: We found that the new cells differentiate into functionally integrated granule cells with similar intrinsic membrane properties in both running and SE environments. However, the neurons born in the epileptic brain show alterations in excitatory and inhibitory inputs, which could attenuate synaptic excitability: The excitatory synaptic drive was attenuated on the new cells born into the epileptic environment compared to those formed under physiological conditions, while the inhibitory synaptic drive on these cells was increased. Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that both a physiological stimulus and an insult to the adult brain trigger the formation of new dentate granule cells, which are functionally integrated into hippocampal neural circuitry. However, following the insult, the functional connectivity of the new neurons seems to mitigate the dysfunction in the epileptic brain. These data provide further evidence for a therapeutic potential of endogenous neurogenesis. (Supported by Swedish Research Council, and Segerfalk, Crafoord and Kock foundations.) 1 Hana Kubova ( 1 Developmental Epileptology, Institute of Physiology, Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic ) Rationale: Using a model of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizures we examined weather withdrawal of clonazepam (CZP) and/or partial benzodiazepine (BZs) agonist Ro 19?8022 leads to changes in seizure susceptibility in immature rats. Methods: To detect development of rebound phenomena, single dose of CZP (1 mg/kg i.p.) or Ro 19?8022 (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) was injected to P12 rats. Seizures were induced by PTZ in doses of 50 (sub-threshold) or 100 (supra-threshold) mg/kg s.c. 12, 24 or 48 h later. To assess changes of seizure susceptibility after chronic administration, animals received either BZ in doses mentioned above for 5 consecutive days starting at P7. PTZ (50 mg/kg s.c.) was injected 2, 4 or 6 d after the last BZ injection. Changes in sensitivity to anticonvulsant effects of BZs after treatment discontinuation were detected in additional groups of animals 1 or 2 days after the end of chronic treatment. Animals received fully anticonvulsant dose of CZP (0.08 mg/kg i.p.) or Ro 19?2088 (0.05 mg/kg i.p.) and 10 min later PTZ in a dose of 100 mg/kg s.c. Incidence and latency of generalized tonic-clonic seizures as well as severity of seizures were registered. Results: After a single injection of tested BZs, anticonvulsant effects expressed as prolongation of GTCS latencies were still observed 12 h (Ro 19?8022) or 24 h (CZP) after injection. In intervals 24 and 48 h, respectively, latencies were however 40?60% shorter compared to untreated controls (p < 0.05). At the same time points, PTZ (50 mg/kg) induced more severe seizures (p < 0.01) with significantly higher incidence of GTCS in BZs-treated rats compared to controls (p < 0.05). Chronic administration of CZP increased both seizure severity and incidence of GTCS for 6 d after the last CZP injection compared to untreated controls (p < 0.05). In contrast, no changes in severity of epileptic phenomena were observed after chronic administration of Ro 19?8022. Neither CZP nor Ro 19?8022 administered chronically changed efficacy of BZs against seizures induced by PTZ (100 mg/kg s.c.) 1 or 2 d after the end of therapy. Conclusions: In immature rats, withdrawal of chronic CZP but not Ro 19?8022 treatment increased severity of PTZ-induced seizures. In contrast, single dose of both CZP and Ro19?8022 led to occurrence rebound phenomenon. (Supported by a research project No. LC554 of the Ministry of Education of the Czech Republic.) 1 Pawel Kudela, 2 William S. Anderson, 1 Piotr J. Franaszczuk, and 1 Gregory K. Bergey ( 1 Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Synchronized and recurrent neuronal bursting is a signature of epileptiform activity. Much work has been done on mechanisms underlying these pathological network behaviors. Several mechanisms including membrane after-hyperpolarization and depletion of synaptic transmitter have been recognized as being implicated in the mechanism of recurrent bursting. Using neuronal network models we demonstrate another plausible mechanism for recurrent bursting in disinhibited neuronal networks, caused by short-term (10?100 ms) synaptic depression. Methods: Simulated networks were composed of inhibitory (fast spiking) and excitatory (regular spiking) neurons. Excitatory neurons in response to injected external excitatory current exhibited no spike frequency adaptation. The synaptic weights in networks were dynamically modified with ongoing network activities. To simulate synaptic plasticity we used a phenomenological model in which the synaptic strength change depends on the history of pre-postsynaptic activity and is determined by the synaptic calcium residual level. The networks were activated by action potentials applied at random intervals on inputs of selected excitatory neurons (less then 25% of the total number of neurons). Neuronal bursting in these networks was induced by gradually reducing the excitatory drive to inhibitory neurons. Results: Action potentials applied at random intervals to selected neurons activated the entire network but no bursting behavior was observed. When excitatory drive to inhibitory neurons in these networks was gradually reduced, excitatory neurons exhibited steady, synchronous, and periodic neuronal bursting. Single bursts in neurons lasted for up to 60 ms and were followed by ?100 ms long periods of inactivity. This temporary cessation of single trains of APs in neurons was mediated by synaptic depression. This was confirmed by the two observations: 1) the maximum of short-term synaptic depression of presynaptic connections overlapped with burst cessation in examined excitatory neurons in these networks, and 2) when short-term depression was not simulated there were no bursting behaviors in these networks. The recovery from synaptic depression was always followed by the onset of new bursts in examined neurons, and networks returned to bursting mode. Conclusions: Our results show that short-term plasticity can be a plausible mechanism contributing to the termination of neuronal bursting. In this network model the cessation of single trains result directly from synaptic depression. We specifically utilized a calcium-regulated model of synaptic plasticity. However, other forms of synaptic plasticity matching the time scale of tens of milliseconds might be also responsible for the recurrent cessation of bursting events, including synaptic depletion. (Supported by NIH NS 51382, NS 38958.) 1 Jonathan E. Kurz, 1 Ahn L. Anderson, and 1 Severn B. Churn ( 1 Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Status epilepticus (SE) is a life-threatening condition charecterized by continuous seizure activity. Previous studies have documented an increase in calcineurin (CaN) activity following SE, as well as an SE-induced increase in the post-synaptic concentration of CaN (Kurz et al. J Neurochem,2001 78:304?15 and Neurobiol Dis,2003 14:483?93). The role of these changes in CaN in the pathology of SE remains unclear. This study examines a potential CaN-dependent modification of the dendritic cytoskeleton involving cofilin activation. CaN has been shown to indirectly induce dephosphorylation of cofilin, an actin depolymerization factor. The ensuing actin depolymerization can lead to a number of physiological changes that are of interest in SE. Methods: Pilocarpine injection was used to induce SE in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. When appropriate, animals were administered 10 mg/kg cyclosporin A or 2.5 mg/kg FK506 i.v. 3h prior to SE. Animals were monitored by video-EEG. At specfic times after the initiation of seizure activity brain tissue was harvested and separated into subcellular fractions by differential centrifugation. Cofilin phosphorylation and total cofilin were assayed by western analysis. CaN activity was assayed via an RII-phosphopeptide based assay. Actin polymerization was assayed both by histochemical means and by determining the ratio of G-to F-actin after separating the two with a solubilization/centrifugation protocol. Results: The immunoreactivity of phosphocofilin decreased significantly in both hippocampal and cortical synaptosomal samples after SE. Hippocampal and cortical phosphocofilin were decreased to approximately 20% of control after 1h of SE (n = 10, p < 0.001). Total cofilin immunoreactivity remained unchanged after 1h of SE, indicating that the loss of phosphocofilin was likely due to dephosphorylation rather than overall loss of cofilin. This dephosphorylation occured as early as 10 min after SE onset, a timeframe that correlates with the timing of the increase in SPM CaN. Cofilin dephosphorylation could be partially blocked by the injection of CaN inhibitors prior to SE, indicating that this process is partially CaN-dependent. Cofilin activation could be further demonstrated by increased actin-cofilin binding on coimmunoprecipitation, which could also be blocked by CaN inhibitors. Finally, SE induced a significant CaN-dependent depolymerization of neuronal actin. Conclusions: The data demonstrate a significant, CaN-dependent activation of cofilin in SE and a subsequent CaN-mediated depolymerization of actin. This research could be applied to explain SE-induced modulation and loss of dendritic spines, as well as changes in receptor localization. Further research into this area may provide useful insights into the pathology of SE and epileptogenic mechanisms. (Supported by the Epilepsy Foundation through the American Epilepsy Society and the Lennox Trust Fund (JEK) and by R01-NS39770 (SBC).) 1 Fred A. Lado, 2 Wei Sun, 2 Cynthia Pan, and 2 Hoby Hetherington ( 1 Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; and 2 Magnetic Resonance Research Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: Epilepsy is a common disease disproportionately affecting children. Often, seizures develop months or years ? the ?latent period'?following an initial brain injury, such as an episode of SE in early childhood. Not all individuals with comparable early life SE, however, develop epilepsy. Indeed, only a minority of children at risk subsequently develops epilepsy. To prospectively select children most likely to benefit from antiepileptogenic therapy it is necessary to identify surrogate markers. The recent advances in magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) suggest that it may be possible to this tool to identify a surrogate marker of epileptogenesis. Methods: Lithium-pilocarpine status epilepticus (SE) was induced in 19-day old rat pups. Pups received intramuscular diazepam two hours after onset of SE to reduce mortality. The severity of seizures during SE were scored using the Racine scale. Pups displaying stage 5 seizures were selected for prospective repeated evaluation with MRSI 24 h, 1 wk, 2 wk, 4 wk, 6 wk after SE. MRSI data were acquired with 2ul resolution. Three voxels within each hippocampus (6 voxels per rat) were selected for analysis. Continuous video recordings are analyzed to detect spontaneous seizures in the weeks after SE. In this model, it is expected that approximately 1/3 of rats will have seizures, while the remainder do not. Results: At 24 h after SE, pups showed a 10?20% drop in N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) to creatine (Cr) ratio in the hippocampus. Repeat scans at intermediate intervals show progressive decline in NAA/Cr in most rats undergoing SE, while control levels remain stable or rise. Preliminary evidence in some rats shows that after 6 weeks NAA/Cr may rise. Correlation of MRSI measurements with seizures detected by video recording is ongoing to determine whether the changes observed predict subsequent epileptogenesis. Conclusions: In immature rats, hippocampal NAA/Cr appears to decline for several weeks following SE. Preliminary results suggest there is partial recovery of NAA/Cr in some rats. Whether the degree of NAA/Cr decline, or possibly the extent of recovery, predict subsequent epileptogenesis will be determined as the rats are followed prospectively. (Supported by NINDS NS048149.) 1 Andre H. Lagrange, and 1 Robert L. Macdonald ( 1 Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Extrasynaptic GABAA receptors (GABARs) produce small but long-lived tonic currents in response to the low levels of ambient GABA (up to ≈1 mM) that are present outside GABAergic synapses. GABARs may also be clustered near synapses (perisynaptic), where they respond to brief surges of extrasynaptic GABA resulting from synaptic overflow. The extrasynaptic GABARs are a mixed population, although α4??δ and α5?3?2L receptors are particularly important in the thalamus and hippocampus. To function efficiently in the extrasynaptic milieu, it has been suggested that these receptors must be non-desensitizing and sensitive to low levels of GABA. Methods: We tested this hypothesis by applying GABA with a rapid drug application system to recombinant GABARs expressed in HEK 293T cells. Results: We report that α4?1δ, α4?2δ, α4?3δ, and α5?3?2L receptors responded to low levels of GABA, although the GABA EC50 varied considerably (α5?3?2L > α4?3δ > α4?1δ > α4?2δ). Since extrasynaptic GABA is thought to change slowly, it is not surprising that all α4??δ combinations activated slowly, requiring nearly 20 ms to reach peak current in response to even saturating GABA concentrations. In contrast, α5?3?2L receptors activated 10 fold more rapidly. All four GABAR isoforms desensitized extensively, with residual currents that were only 30% of peak current during a 4 sec application of 1 mM GABA. Interestingly, the residual currents, generally accepted as measures of tonic inhibition, were very similar at all but the lowest GABA concentrations. However, the GABA concentration producing this maximal ?tonic? current varied from 3?20 ?M, depending on the receptor isoform. Thus, each GABAR responded to its own unique range of GABA concentrations. Finally, α5?3?2L receptors expressed a small spontaneous current (10% of the response to 1 ?M GABA) that was blocked by picrotoxin. This current was not recorded in cells transfected with α1?3?2L, α4?3?2L, α1?3δ or α4?3δ receptors. Conclusions: In summary, we report that the kinetic properties of individual extrasynaptic GABARs are tuned for efficient response to extrasynaptic activation and suggest that the relatively high GABA EC50 and rapid activation of α5?3?2L GABARs renders them ideally suited to function as perisynaptic receptors. Furthermore, a low level of spontaneous activity could allow α5?3?2L GABARs to modulate neuronal activity, even in the absence of ambient GABA. In contrast, the highly sensitive but slowly activating α4??δ GABARs would function well as extrasynaptic receptors. Since ambient GABA levels may be altered during development as well as by drugs and disease states, these findings raise the exciting possibility that selective modulation of extrasynaptic GABAR subtypes may modify specific components of the tonic currents to treat illnesses such as epilepsy. (Supported by K08 NS 045122 to AHL, R01 NS33300 to RLM.) 1 Ann Lam, 1 Naomi Whelan, and 1 Michael E. Corcoran ( 1 Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada ) Rationale: Transfer occurs when kindling of a site reduces the number of stimulations required to kindle subsequently from a secondary site. One explanation of transfer is that kindling of the first site causes other regions to become more susceptible to seizures. Typically only the rate of seizure generalization is affected in transfer, and parameters such as the afterdischarge (AD) threshold in the secondary site are unaltered. It has been reported that prekindling of some brainstem sites results in transfer to forebrain sites, associated with development of classic AD in the brainstem. In our previous studies of brainstem kindling, we observed low amplitude high frequency tightly organized AD, not classic AD. Therefore, we examined the effects of prekindling the brainstem on secondary-site kindling of forebrain sites, to determine whether transfer requires triggering of classic AD in the primary site. Methods: Male Long-Evans rats carried bipolar electrodes aimed at the nucleus reticularis pontis oralis (RPO), mesencephalic reticular formation (MRF), dorsal periaqueductal grey (dPAG), or ventrolateral periaqueductal grey (vlPAG), with a second electrode aimed at the amygdala. AD thresholds were determined at the brainstem electrode, and the rats received 1-sec trains of balanced square wave stimulation once daily for 30 days. Seven weeks after brainstem kindling the AD threshold of the amygdala was determined. Rats sham-kindled during the 30 days of brainstem stimulation served as the control group. The experimental and control groups were stimulated in the amygdala at AD threshold twice daily, until they had five Stage 5 seizures or until they received 50 stimulations. Twenty-four hr after the last kindling session the AD thresholds were again measured. Results: Prekindling of the RPO, vlPAG and MRF failed to produce transfer to the forebrain, in that kindling at the amygdala proceeded at the rate seen in naive control rats. However, prekindling of the dPAG produced positive transfer to amygdaloid kindling. Unexpectedly, all rats that were prekindled in brainstem sites failed to display a decrease in amygdaloid AD threshold when subsequently subjected to secondary-site kindling of the amygdala, in contrast to the significant decrease in amygdaloid AD threshold displayed by control rats. Conclusions: Our results suggest that prestimulation of brainstem sites results in inhibitory effects on forebrain kindling. The effects are not due to suppression of forebrain-triggered discharge and propagation to distal sites, but reflect inhibition of amygdaloid sensitization to the kindling stimulus. Because brainstem kindling involves low-voltage tightly organized AD, the triggering of classic AD in the brainstem during prekindling is not required for transfer to occur (i.e., dPAG group). Whether primary forebrain kindling affects subsequent brainstem kindling remains to be determined. (Supported by Grants from NSERC and CIHR to MEC.) 1 John G. Lamb, 1 Misty D. Smith-Yockman, 1 Jonathan Constance, 1 Robyn Poerschke, 1 Michael R. Franklin, and 1 Steve H. White ( 1 Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ) Rationale: Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are man-made ubiquitous environmental contaminants, found as mixtures of more than 200 individual compounds. PCBs are known to cause the induction of drug metabolizing and multidrug transporter enzymes including multidrug resistant 1 (MDR1). We examined the effect of PCB exposure on the expression of MDR1a and MDR1b mRNAs in the rat liver and kidney. The effect of PCB exposure on the effectiveness of phenytoin in the maximal electroshock (MES) test was also examined. Methods: Animals were treated with either corn oil or PCBs (25 mg/kg, i.p.). After 48 hours, groups of animals were dosed with phenytoin (60 mg/kg, p.o.) and subjected to the MES test (bilateral corneal electrical stimulation 150 mA, 0.3 sec.) after two hours. Additional groups of PCB treated animals were pre-treated with clotrimazole (75 mg/kg, i.p.) 2.5 hours prior to phenytoin treatment (to inhibit cytochrome P450 activity) and subjected to the MES test, two hours after phenytoin treatment. The serum level of phenytoin was determined by HPLC analysis. Total RNA was isolated from liver and kidney tissue and the level of MDR1a, MDR1b mRNAs determined by real-time PCR analysis. Results: Significant elevations of MDR1a and MDR1b mRNAs were detected in the liver of PCB treated animals, while only MDR1a mRNA was elevated in the kidney. In the MES test, 7/8 animals were protected by phenytoin in the corn oil control group, while only 2/8 animals were protected in the PCB treated group. HPLC analysis indicated a significant decrease in the level of phenytoin in the serum of the PCB treated animals. Clotrimazole treatment did not affect the number of animals protected against MES by phenytoin (7/8 protected). In PCB treated animals clotrimazole did not fully restore the protection by phenytoin (only 5/8 protected). Conclusions: The results indicate that exposure to PCBs causes an increase in the expression of MDR1a mRNA in the liver and kidney, and MDR1b in the liver. PCB exposure also causes a significant decrease in the effectiveness of phenytoin in the MES test. Despite inhibition of cytochrome P450 activity, PCB treatment caused a decrease in the number of animals protected from MES by phenytoin, suggesting a potential role for transporters in the PCB effect. Environmental contaminants may contribute to therapy resistance in epilepsy by multiple mechanisms. (Supported by NO1-NS-4?2359.) 1 Chong L. Lee, 2 James D. Frost Jr., 1 John W. Swann, and 2,3 Richard A. Hrachovy ( 1 Department of Pediatrics, Cain Foundation Labs., Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; and 3 Neurology Care Line, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Neuronal activity plays a crucial role in the proper development and maturation of the immature brain. The present project investigates the consequences of activity blockade during critical periods of brain development. Methods: Postnatal day 10 (P10) rats were implanted with a subcutaneous Alzet pump (2 or 4 weeks capacity) filled with 10 ?M tetrodotoxin (TTX). The infusion cannula was implanted either in the cortex or dorsal hippocampus. At the end of the infusion period (at P25 or P39) the pump was removed and animals were implanted with a series of cortical and/or hippocampal silver EEG electrodes. On the following day EEG/video recordings of 2 ? 4 hours duration were initiated. Monitoring was repeated at approximately daily intervals for at least 1 week. All surgical procedures and animal care have been approved by Baylor College of Medicine. Results: To date 35 TTX treated (17 cortical ?1 two weeks and 16 four weeks infusion and 18 hippocampal ? 6 two weeks and 12 four weeks) and 5 vehicle infused (hippocampal ? 4 weeks) animals have been implanted and monitored. All TTX treated animals exhibited high voltage multifocal interictal spiking. A subset of 4 weeks infused animals from each infusion area (3 of 16 cortical and 3 of 12 hippocampal) exhibited sporadic EEG complexes consisting of a generalized slow wave transient, a generalized voltage attenuation (2?4 seconds) or a burst of fast activity (2?4 seconds) .These complexes could occur alone or in various combinations, the most common being a high voltage slow wave complex followed by a generalized voltage attenuation with superimposed fast activity. These complexes could occur in isolation or in clusters and typically occurred on arousal from sleep. These EEG complexes were typically associated behaviorally with a brief tonic spasm, which could be preceded by a body jerk. Some of these animals also exhibited a very high voltage background EEG pattern associated with multifocal sharp wave discharges that resembled the hypsarrhythmic pattern observed in human children with infantile spasms. No seizure activity was observed in 2 week infused animals or in any of the vehicle infused animals. Conclusions: The results suggest that prolonged blockade of neuronal activity during critical periods in early life can induce seizures. Some of these animals exhibited EEG and behavioral phenotypes that are very similar to those found in human cases of infantile spasms. (Supported by NIH (NINDS) Grants: NS 18309 and NS37171.) 1 Linda H. Lee, 1 Isabel Parada, and 1 David A. Prince ( 1 Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA ) Rationale: Na+-K+ ATPase (the ?sodium pump) plays an important role in maintaining ionic gradients in neurons and is expressed in axons where it influences the generation of both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic events. Blockade of the pump leads to acute epileptiform activity due at least in part to decreases in GABA release. Pump activity is known to be decreased by brain trauma. We therefore assessed anatomical alterations in the pump in a rodent model of chronic posttraumatic epileptogenesis. Methods: Chronic partial isolations of sensori-motor rat cortex were made as previously described. At 7?60d after injury we quantitatively assessed the expression of the neuronal catalytic alpha 3 subunit of Na+-K+ ATPase using standard immunocytochemical techniques, fluorescent and confocal microscopy and image analysis software. Results: Alpha 3 immunoreactivity (IR) was normally prominent in the neuropil and surrounding somata of pyramidal (P) cells in all lamina. The perisomatic IR was colocalized with GAD65 IR and parvalbumin (PV) in presumed inhibitory terminals of fast-spiking (FS) interneurons. Perisomatic alpha 3 Na+-K+ ATPase IR was reduced significantly in partially isolated cortex, without obvious changes in GAD65- or PV-IR. Measurements showed that the interhemispheric differences in alpha3 subunit IR around layer V Pcell somata in partially isolated vrs contralateral cortex were10x greater than interhemispheric differences in controls (p < < 0.05). Such abnormalities were seen 7d following injury, the earliest time point examined (before onset of epileptogenesis in this model), persisted at least 2 mo., and were more marked in 7d vrs 15?30d survivors, but still significant at 15?30d. Conclusions: In the chronically injured, epileptogenic cortex, axons of FS cells, which provide a major component of somatic GABAergic postsynaptic inhibitory innervation in P cells, and the large autaptic input to FS interneurons, contain less Na+-K+ ATPase. Reductions in alpha 3 Na+-K+ ATPase might affect GABA release from inhibitory terminals through depolarization due to increases in both [Na]i and local [K+]o that would be prominent with generation of high frequency discharges such as occur in FS cells normally and during epileptiform activity. (Supported by NIH grants NS12151 and NS39579 from the NINDS.) 1 Huifang Li, and 1 Robert S. Fisher ( 1 Department of Neurology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA ) Rationale: The incidence of absence epilepsy is higher in females, however, the underlying reasons for this gender asymmetry are unknown. We reported previously that the expression of GABAA receptor subunit ?2 protein levels were decreased in thalamic reticular (nRt) and ventrobasal (VB) nuclei in a group of adult rats (both male and female) after perinatal treatment with a cholesterol synthesis inhibitor (CSI) AY9944 (Li et al., 2006). We performed studies to evaluate the expression of GABAA receptor α1 and ?2 subunits in thalamic nRt-VB nuclei and somatosensory cortex from male and female rats at ages p35?60 days. Methods: Experiments were carried out according to protocols approved by the Stanford Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Long-Evans rats were treated with AY9944 (15 mg/kg each) at p1, p5 and p9. Thalamic nRt-VB region, and somatosensory cortex were harvested at p35 and p60. Real-time PCR quantification and Western blot techniques, normalized to control group levels were performed to measure the expression of mRNA and protein levels for α1 and ?2 subunits. Statistical analysis used t-tests with validation on data normalized by log transformations. Results: Real-time PCR and Western blot results showed a gender differential effect of perinatal CSI treatment on expression of GABAA receptor α1 and ?2 subunit mRNA and protein levels in thalamus. At p35, ?2 subunit mRNA levels were decreased in female (control, 1.00 ± 0.04 vs. CSI model, 0.77 ± 0.07, p < 0.02) but not in male thalamus. Corresponding to the decrease of mRNA expression, ?2 protein levels also were decreased in female rats previously given AY9944 (control, 1.00 ± 0.07 vs. CSI model, 0.82 ± 0.04, p < 0.02). At p60, no significant difference was detected in the expression of α1 or ?2 mRNAs. However, reductions of expression of α1 subunit protein levels were seen in female thalamus (control 1.00 ± 0.04 vs. CSI model 0.79 ± 0.04, p < 0.02), but not in male rats. At P60, expression of GABAA receptor ?2 subunit protein also was decreased in the female, but not in the male, thalamus (control 1.00 ± 0.06 vs. CSI model 0.71 ± 0.05, p < 0.01). In contrast, the expression of ?2 subunit protein in CSI model somatosensory cortex was increased in both female and male cortex at age p60, compared to age-matched control somatosensory cortex (female control 1.00 ± 0.06 vs. CSI model 1.15 ± 0.06, p < 0.03; male control 1.00 ± 0.02 vs. CSI model 1.21 ± 0.06, p < 0.02). Conclusions: Perinatal inhibition of cholesterol synthesis differentially alters GABAA receptor subunit expression in male and female rats, demonstrating a decrease of ?2 subunits in female, but not male, thalamic nRt-VB nuclei. Such changes may partially explain the higher incidence of clinical absence epilepsy in female patients. (Supported by Maslah Saul MD Chair and the James and Carrie Anderson Fund for Epilepsy Research (RSF). Susan Horngren Fund and the Epilepsy Foundation (HL). Wyeth-Ayerst for supplying the AY9944 drug.) 1,2 Jerome Niquet, 1,2 Maria-Leonor Lopez-Meraz, 1,2,3 Claude Wasterlain, and 1,2 Lucie Suchomelova ( 1 Epilepsy Research Laboratory (151), Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA ; 2 Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; and 3 Brain Research Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: The contribution of hyperthermia per se to status epilepticus (SE)-induced neuronal damage in the immature brain is not well understood. In adult animals, hyperthermia can aggravate seizure-induced neuronal damage (Liu et al., 1993; Lundgren et al., 1994). However, published reports did not show any additional damage caused by hyperthermic when compared to normothermic seizures in immature brain (Bender et al., 2003; Sarkisian et al., 1999; Toth et al., 1998). To study this problem, we developed a model of lithium-pilocarpine SE in rats at post-natal day 10 (P10), in which we were able to obtain seizures of very similar intensity at a body temperature of 35°C (normothermia) vs 39°C (hyperthermia). Methods: SE was induced in P10 rats with lithium (3mEq/kg, i.p.), and pilocarpine (60 mg/kg, s.c., 24 hours later). Their body temperature was maintained during 30 min of SE at 39 ± 1°C (hyperthermic animals, HT+SE) or at 35 ± 1°C (normothermic animals, NT+SE). Several measures showed seizure severity to be similar in both experimental groups. SE was terminated by diazepam (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). Control animals received lithium and diazepam in presence of hyperthermia or normothermia. Anesthetized animals were perfused with 4% phosphate-buffered paraformaldehyde 24 hours after induction of SE. Each brain was embedded in paraffin and sectioned to 10 uM. The distribution of neuronal injury was evaluated by using Fluoro-jade B staining, whereas the expression of death markers (the active forms of initiator caspase-9 and executioner caspase-3) was assessed by fluorescence immunohistochemistry in adjacent sections. Mode of death (necrotic or apoptotic) from HT+SE and NT+SE animals was defined by electron microscopy. Results: Fluoro-jade B staining showed neuronal injury in CA1, medial amygdala, dentate gyrus inner granule cell layer and cingulate cortex from HT+SE animals. NT+SE animals displayed very mild damage in CA1 and granule cell layer, none in amygdala. No damage was detected in controls. Electron microscopy showed a mixed population of apoptotic and necrotic neurons in CA1 from HT+SE and NT+SE groups. Active caspase-3 immunoreactive neurons were seen in CA1, granule cell layer and cingulate cortex from HT+SE animals, but active caspase-9 staining was limited to granule cell layer and cingulate cortex. Caspase-3 or -9 were not activated in NT+SE animals. Conclusions: Hyperthermia markedly aggravated the severity and the extent of SE-induced neuronal injury through a caspase-3 and/or -9-dependent mechanism. (Supported by Grant NS13515 from NINDS, National Institutes of Health, by UC Mexus grant, and by the Research Service of the Veterans Health Administration.) 1 Hongtao Ma, 1 Mingrui Zhao, 1 Minah Suh, 1 Challon Perry, and 1 Theodore H. Schwartz ( 1 Neurological Surgery, Weill-Cornell Medical College, Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY ) Rationale: The hemodynamic changes associated with neuronal activity are the basis for several non-invasive imaging methods, such as fMRI, PET and SPECT. However, the precise spatiotemporal relationship between perfusion, oxygenation and the neuronal dynamic is not well understood since there is no technique for simultaneously measuring neuronal activity and perfusion in a large area of cortex with high spatial and temporal resolution. Methods: Currently, optical recording of voltage sensitive dyes (VSD) offers the best spatial (?50 ?m) and temporal (1ms) resolution for recording neuronal activity from a large area of cortex (several millimeters). Intrinsic optical signal (IOS) imaging offers the best spatial (?50 ?m) and temporal (tens of milliseconds) resolution for recording hemodynamic changes. We developed a technique combining VSD and IOS imaging to simultaneously measure membrane potential, perfusion and hemoglobin oxygenation in vivo. Results: Two illumination sources were employed for VSD (640 ± 10nm, for new blue dye RH-1692) and IOS (570 ± 5 or 605 ± 5) respectively. A 620 nm dichroic mirror was used to separate the VSD (>665 nm) and IOS signals (570 or 605 nm). VSD and IOS responses were simultaneously recorded with two cameras. We compared the IOS result from cortex stained with VSD and IOS result from unstained cortex and found that staining with RH-1692 has no significant effect on the hemodynamic responses. We successfully used this technique in the rat preparation to record interictal events induced with intracortical injection of bicuculline. Conclusions: Simultaneous VSD and IOS recording is a technically feasible method for studying the complex interactions between excitatory and inhibitory neuronal activity and both increases and decreases in perfusion and oxygenation. (Supported by NIH NS043799?04, NS049482?01 and the Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of the American Epilepsy Society.) 1 Gauri H. Malthankar-Phatak, 1 Daniel P. McCloskey, 1 Tana M. Hintz, 2 Neil J. MacLusky, and 1,3 Helen E. Scharfman ( 1 CNRRR, Helen Hayes Hospital, W. Haverstraw, NY ; 2 Biomed. Sci., University of Guelph, Guleph, ON, Canada ; and 3 Pharmacol.  n = 19/32) vs. sham controls (66%, n = 10/15; p = 0.63). The incidence of CA3 bursts in orchidectomized rats was significantly lower (32%, n = 8/25, n = 4 rats), when tested 12?14 weeks after status, relative to sham and intact rats (pooled; 86%, n = 36/42, n = 7 rats; p = 0.0001). This was unlikely to have been due to differential neuronal damage or sprouting, because they appeared to be similar throughout the septotemporal axis in the two groups. If orchidectomy was conducted after the chronic period was established, it did not stop spontaneous seizures, or have any effect on the incidence of CA3 bursts in slices from these rats (orch., 92%; sham, 100%; p = 1.0). Conclusions: Orchidectomy 2 wks prior to status had no apparent effect on the incidence of status, but it did appear to reduce the incidence of CA3 bursts in slices from rats that were examined during the chronic period in the pilocarpine model. However, orchidectomy after the onset of the chronic period did not influence CA3 bursts. The results suggest that orchidectomy, and most likely testosterone, has a major effect on the development, but not the maintenance, of area CA3 network bursts in the pilocarpine model. This effect would be consistent with recent studies illustrating the influence of testosterone on synaptic remodeling in CA3, and the evidence that synaptic reorganization plays a role in epileptogenesis. (Supported by NINDS 37652, Helen Hayes Hospital Foundation, New York State Deptartment of Health.) 1 John G. Mantis, 1 Nicholas C. Zimick, 1 Richard McGowan, and 1 Thomas N. Seyfried ( 1 Biology, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA ) Rationale: Glucose uptake into the brain is greater during epileptic seizures than during most other brain activities suggesting a key role for glucose in the initiation and spread of seizure activity. Under conditions of fasting or caloric restriction (CR), however, brain cells can also derive energy from ketone bodies (acetoacetate and beta-hydroxybutyrate, ?-OHB). The high fat, low carbohydrate ketogenic diet (KD) was developed as an alternative to fasting for seizure management. We previously showed that CR and a restricted lard-based KD inhibited seizure susceptibility in epileptic EL mice. The EL mouse is a model for age-dependent multifactorial idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) and expresses complex partial seizures with secondary generalization. The efficacy of the KD in managing epileptic seizures is dependent on the restriction of caloric intake that lowers glucose thereby allowing the brain to metabolize ketones for energy. KetoCal? (KC) is a commercially prepared soy-oil-based KD for children with a fat to protein carbohydrate ratio of 4:1 and is more palatable than lard-based or medium chain triglyceride (MCT) formulations. In this study we evaluated the antiepileptic and anticonvulsant efficacy of KC in young adult EL mice. Methods: EL mice (about 70 days of age) that experienced at least 2 complex generalized seizures were separated in three groups (n = 8 mice/group) and were fed either a standard high carbohydrate (chow) diet unrestricted (SD-UR), KC unrestricted (KC-UR), or KC restricted (KC-R) to reduce body weight by approximately 20%. Seizure susceptibility, body weights, and food intake were measured once/week over a nine-week treatment period. The handling-induced seizure test was used to evaluate seizure susceptibility in each mouse group. Plasma glucose and ?-OHB levels were measured once every three weeks, using enzymatic analyses. Results: Body weights, plasma glucose levels, and seizure susceptibility were significantly lower in the KC-R group over the nine-week testing period than in the SD-UR and KC-UR groups. Plasma ?-OHB levels were significantly higher in the KC-R group (4mM) than in the SD-UR group (0.45 mM) or the KC-UR group (1.1 mM) after week three of the study. Seizure susceptibility was lower (p < 0.05) in the KC-UR group than in the SD-UR group only at the last week of the dietary treatment despite similarities in body weight and glucose levels. Conclusions: KetoCal? is as effective as the lard-based KD in managing IGE in EL mice. No adverse side effects were detected in EL mice receiving KetoCal?. Anticonvulsant efficacy is best when KetoCal? is administered in restricted amounts to lower blood glucose and to elevate blood ketone bodies. We predict that KetoCal? will be effective in the clinic and can be used as a standard ketogenic diet therapy for both human and animal studies. (Supported by the Epilepsy Foundation, and NIH (HD39722), and the Boston College Research Expense Fund.) 1 Anatoly E. Martynyuk, 2 Paul R. Carney, 1 Donn M. Dennis, and 3 Philip J. Laipis ( 1 Anesthesiology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 2 Pediatrics, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: The mechanisms underlying epileptic activity in untreated phenylketonuria (PKU) patients are not well understood. Based on our previous findings that phenylalanine (Phe) at concentrations found in PKU mouse brain significantly and reversibly depresses glutamatergic synaptic transmission leading to a compensatory increase in the expression and density of glutamate receptors, we hypothesized that seizures in PKU mice might be observed when Phe levels are decreased and glutamatergic activity becomes facilitated. Methods: This hypothesis was tested by examining the susceptibility of PKU mice (female homozygous Pahenu2 BTBR) to audiogenic seizures (AGS) induced by sound stimulus of 118 dB (10?20 kHz). Results: Serum Phe concentrations in PKU mice were more than 10 fold higher than in heterozygous (HET) carriers or wild-type (WT) BTBR mice. Unlike HET carriers or WT mice, adult PKU mice, 8 weeks of age or older, were susceptible to AGS and exhibited dramatic responses with symptoms ranging from uncontrolled running to clonic and tonic convulsions, respiratory arrest, and death. Death could be prevented by pretreatment with oxygen-enriched air. Serum Phe levels in PKU mice could vary significantly with time of day, with an average decrease of 0.53 mM from 9 am to 5 pm. Depending on Phe levels, the same mouse could be either susceptible or resistant to AGS. In general, while adult mice with Phe levels of less than 2 mM routinely exhibited AGS, mice with Phe levels of greater than 2 mM were resistant to the stimulus. Young PKU mice consistently had significantly higher serum Phe levels and were not susceptible to AGS. Serum Phe levels in adult PKU mice could be lowered to normal, or increased to hyperphenylalaninemic concentrations within 12 hours, by switching adult PKU mice from a high to low Phe diet, or vice versa. Susceptibility to AGS disappeared after 12 hours on the low Phe diet. In contrast, more than 7 weeks on a standard diet were necessary before PKU mice, previously maintained for two weeks on a low Phe diet, regained susceptibility to AGS. Conclusions: Complex dependence of AGS on Phe levels indicates that the Phe-induced changes in glutamatergic synaptic transmission may play an important etiological role in PKU seizures. If seizure susceptibility is similarly reversible in human PKU patients, then they may face a risk of becoming susceptible to seizures after relaxing their Phe-restricted diet, perhaps especially with increasing age. Given the known mutation and the well defined biochemical background, the Pahenu2 mouse may become a new valuable model for investigating the mechanisms underlying epileptic activity in general. (Supported by NIH DK058327 (PJL), the University of Florida McKnight Brain Institute, and I. Heermann Anesthesia Foundation, Inc.) 1 Alain Matagne, 1 Doru-Georg Margineanu, 1 Karine Leclercq, 1 Donald Dassesse, 1 Nathalie Lambeng, and 1 Henrik Klitgaard ( 1 CNS Research, UCB S.A., Braine-l'Alleud, Belgium ) Rationale: SV2A is the most abundant isoform of SV2, a membrane glycoprotein common to all synaptic vesicles. This protein was recently reported (Lynch et al., PNAS 101:9861?66, 2004) to be the binding site of the newer generation antiepileptic drug, levetiracetam (Keppra?). The purpose of this study was to characterize the potential epilepsy-phenotype of mice lacking SV2A. Methods: SV2A KO mice were generated by using targeted gene disruption in S. Bajjalieh's laboratories at the University of Washington, Seattle (Crowder et al., PNAS 96:15268?73, 1999). Homozygous SV2A KO mice display severe seizures and are not viable beyond 2 weeks, thus precluding phenotyping in adults. In contrast, heterozygous SV2A KO mice (SV2A ±) are viable. In this study, we compared SV2A ± mice to wild type (WT) controls with respect to acute seizure susceptibility in response to both electrical and chemical stimulation. Evoked field potentials were recorded in the CA3, CA1 and DG areas of hippocampal slices in vitro. Different groups of animals, aged 2 months, were used for each experiment. Results: The electrical seizure threshold intensity inducing tonic hind limb extension after corneal electrode stimulation was comparable between SV2A ± and WT mice (n = 19?16/group). Similarly, there was no difference between SV2A ± and WT mice in the threshold dose inducing generalized clonic seizures after continuous intravenous infusion of pentylenetetrazole (n = 25/group). In contrast, the (stimulus intensity) ? (population spike) curves of the field potentials recorded from hippocampal slices showed a higher excitability in the CA3 area in slices from SV2A ± mice compared to WT controls. Likewise, kindling acquisition induced by twice daily corneal electrode stimulations (2 mA for 3 s) was markedly accelerated in SV2A ± mice compared to WT (n = 10/group). The induction of secondary generalized motor seizures in all SV2A ± mice was reached after up to 12 repeated stimulations whereas up to 22 stimulations were necessary to reach this end point in WT mice. Conclusions: The results of this study suggest a key role of the SV2A protein in the establishment of a chronic epileptic condition, consonant with the seizure phenotype observed in SV2A homozygous mice. This supports that SV2A is the principal mechanism for the antiepileptic action of levetiracetam. (Supported by UCB S.A.) 1 Hideyuki Matsukubo, 1 Koichi Akaike, 2 Shin-Ichi Imamura, 1 Motofumi Kasugai, 1 Hideshi Tojo, 3 Shigeya Tanaka, and 1 Akira Sano ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Field of Social and Behavioral Medicine, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; 2 Department of Neurosurgery, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; and 3 Neurosurgery, Tanaka Neurosurgical Clinic, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ) Rationale: Previously, we revealed that FVB/N showed more sensitive susceptibility to seizure, by electroencephalographic and behavioral observation, compared to C57BL/6 in the kainic acid (KA)-induced amygdalar seizures. Moreover, neuronal cell death in the hippocampal CA3 region was significantly severer in FVB/N than in C57BL/6. In the present study, we investigated the serial changes of GABA and Glutamate concentration in the left hippocampus after KA microinjection into the amygdala in mice with different strains, C57BL/6 and FVB/N. Methods: Forty-eight male adult mice with two strains (n = 24, respectively) underwent a stereotactic operation using the units for stereotactic coordinates under pentobarbital anesthesia (10 mg/kg i.p.). For microinjection, a stainless steel cannula (outer diameter, 0.6 mm) with an inner needle guide (diameter, 0.3 mm) was inserted into the left amygdala (LA). On the seventh days after surgery, all animals received 0.5 microg of KA into the LA. Two hours (n = 12, respectively) or 48 hours (n = 12, respectively) after KA injection, animals were decapitated and the ipsilateral hippocampus were removed. Intrahippocampal GABA and glutamate were quantitatively measured using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Data were analyzed statistically between C57BL/6 and FVB/N by using Student's t-test. In controls (n = 12, respectively), PBS was injected into the LA. They likewise were quantitatively measured using HPLC. Results: There was no significant difference concerning Glutamate and GABA concentration between two strains 2 hours after KA injection. Forty-eight hours after KA injection, however, GABA concentration of the C57BL/6 was significantly higher than that of the FVB/N, while there was no significant difference of glutamate concentration between two strains. In control, there was no significant difference between two strains concerning both GABA and Glutamate concentration 2 and 48 hours after PBS injection. Conclusions: The less seizure susceptibilities of the C57BL/6 may be associated with the intrahippocampal higher GABA concentration than that of FVB/N. This result will contribute to reveal the molecular mechanism of both strains, FVB/N and C57BL/6. (Supported by Grant?in-Aid for Encouragement of Young Scientists from the Ministry of Education, Sciences, and Culture of Japan.) 1 Andrey M. Mazarati, 2 Linda Lundstrom, 1 Don Shin, 2 Ulo Langel, and 1 Raman Sankar ( 1 Pediatrics-Neuro, David School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; and 2 Neurochemistry, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden ) Rationale: Galanin is a neuropeptide with well established anticonvulsant effects in acute seizure models. No data are available onto whether galanin might inhibit epileptogenesis. In the hippocampus, galanin acts at two G protein-coupled receptor types ? GalR1 and GalR2. We examined antiepileptogenic potential of selective GalR1 and GalR2 agonist to in kindling model, and examined putative downstream pathway that mediate anticonvulsant effects of galanin. Methods: Adult male Wistar rats received 24 hour long intrahippocampal infusion of a non ? selective GalR1/GalR2 agonist galanin (1?29), selective GalR1 agonist synthetic peptide M617, or selective GalR2 agonist galanin (2?11). The peptides were administered alone, or combined with an inhibitor of Gi/o protein pertussis toxin (PTX); blocker of G-protein coupled inwardly rectifying K+ channels (GIRK) ? tertiapin Q (TPQ); Gq/11 protein inhibitor [D-Arg1,D-Trp5,7,9,Leu11]-substance P (dSP); or an inhibitor of intracellular Ca2+ release dantrolene. Sixteen hours into drug delivery, the animals were subjected to rapid kindling ? sixty electrical trains administered to ventral hippocampus every 5 minutes. Hippocampal afterdischarge properties before and after treatment, as well as before and after kindling, and the number of stimulations required to reach each consecutive behavioral seizure score (1 through 4) were analyzed. Results: Activation of hippocampal GalR1 delayed, but did not prevent kindling progression. Twenty four hours after kindling, M617 ? treated animals exhibited the decrease of afterdischarge threshold and developed stage 4?5 seizures in response to threshold stimulation, similar to control. GalR1/GalR2 and GalR2 agonists completely prevented both the development of full motor seizures in the course of kindling, and the decrease of afterdischarge threshold 24 hours after kindling procedure. Anticonvulsant effect of GalR1 was not observed in the presence of Gi/o and GIRK inhibitors. Antiepileptogenic action of GalR2 agonist was PTX- sensitive, but GIRK ? independent. Furthermore, inhibition of Gi/o by PTX changed antiepileptogenic effects of galanin (1?29) and of galanin (2?11) to proconvulsant. Inhibition of Gq/11 and of intracellular Ca++ release eliminated proconvulsant effect of PTX+galanin (1?29) and PTX+galanin (2?11) combinations. Conclusions: We conclude that hippocampal GalR1 exert disease ? modifying effect through Gi-GIRK pathway. GalR2 is antiepileptogenic through Gi mechanism, which does not involve GIRK. Our studies also revealed a secondary proconvulsant pathway coupled to GalR2, which involves Gq/11 and intracellular Ca2+. The data are important for understanding endogenous mechanisms regulating epileptogenesis, and for the development of novel antiepileptogenic drugs. (Supported by NIH/NINDS grants NS043409 (AM) and NS046516 (RS).) 1 Guy M. McKhann II, 1 Xiaoping Wu, 2 Howard L. Weiner, 3 Peter D. Crino, 1 Robert R. Goodman, and 1 Alexander A. Sosunov ( 1 Neurological Surgery, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurology, New York University Medical Center, New York, NY ; and 3 Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Prominent astrogliosis is a typical feature of cortical tubers in Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC). The relationship of these changes to mTOR activation, and the characteristics of tuberous astrogliosis in comparison to astrocytic changes in other human epilepsies have not been investigated. Methods: Neocortical and hippocampal specimens obtained during surgery on pharmaco-resistent MTLE (46 cases) and tuberous sclerosis complex (12 cases) were studied with immunohistochemistry. Results: Most tuber astrocytes reveal high similarity to fibrous-like astrocytes seen in areas of sclerosis in MTLE. These astrocytes differ drastically from protoplasmic astrocytes found in cortex surrounding tubers in TSC and in control human neorcortex or lateral neocortex in cases of human MTLE. Morphological and immunohistochemical analysis of sclerotic and tuber astrocytes revealed that they are both characterized by increased GFAP expression and length of cell processes, accompanied by decreased expression of glutamine synthetase and astrocyte-specific glutamate transport proteins. A subpopulation of astrocytes in tubers reveal upregulation of mTOR pathway, based on immunostaining for phospho-p70S6kinase, phospho-S6, phospho-STAT3, and phospho-4E-BP1. This mTOR activation is similar to that previously shown in giant cells (Baybis et al., 2004; Miyata et al., 2004). Acutely reactive astrocytes observed in surgically resected brain tissue from MLTE patients also revealed immunostaining for downstream components of the mTOR cascade. Conclusions: Two types of astrrocytes are found in human tubers: 1) mTOR activated cells similar to acutely reactive human astrocytes; 2) Sclerotic/gliotic astrocytes similar to human astrocytes in areas of sclerosis in MTLE. We hypothesize that activation of the mTOR pathway in tuber astrocytes due to TSC1 or TSC1 genes mutations leads to stepwise phenotypic transformation of astrocytes from reactive to sclerotic/gliotic cells. TSC may thus represent a genetic model of human astrogliosis found in other pathologies such as MTLE, stroke, and head trauma. The possible molecular mechanisms linking mTOR pathway activation, GFAP overproduction, and the appearance of fibrous-like astrocytes are being investigated. (Supported by Parents Against Childhood Epilepsy, NIH R21 NS 42334.) 1 Karen A. Menuz, 1 Jessica L. O'Brien, 1 Siavash Karimzadegan, 1 David S. Bredt, and 1 Roger A. Nicoll ( 1 Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Increased excitatory drive in the thalamocortical network is thought to underlie absence seizures. Mutations in channels that mediate neuronal inhibition have been found in patients with familial forms of the disorder. However, the mutation in the Stargazer mouse, an animal model for absence epilepsy, primarily affects excitatory glutamatergic transmission via AMPA receptors. To date, stargazin and its related family members, the Transmembrane AMPA receptor Regulatory Proteins (TARPs), have only been shown to regulate synaptic AMPA receptor function in excitatory neurons. However, if TARPs also regulate AMPA receptors in inhibitory GABAergic neurons, the lack of inhibition may lead to seizure activity. Therefore the aim of this study was to determine if TARPs regulate AMPA receptors in GABAergic neurons. Methods: Single and double knockout mice for TARP isoforms ?2 (stargazin) and ?3 were generated. Western blotting was used to analyze AMPA receptor content in different brain regions. Synaptic AMPA receptor currents were measured with standard electrophysiological techniques in acute brain slices and dissociated neurons. Results: Single ?3-/- knockout mouse were indistinguishable from littermates. However, ?2-/- ?3-/- double knockout mice were severely impaired and generally died before the 2nd postnatal week. Western Blot analysis of ?2-/- ?3-/- double knockout mice found no change of AMPA receptor expression in most brain regions. Electrophysiological analysis of the GABAergic Purkinje neurons found a severe reduction of AMPA receptor mediated synaptic transmission in ?2-/- mice, which was not increased in ?2-/- ?3-/- double knockout mice. A specific GABAergic interneuron population was found to be unaffected in single ?2-/- and ?3-/- knockout mice, but showed a nearly complete loss of synaptic AMPA receptors in ?2-/- ?3-/- double knockout mice. Conclusions: TARPs regulate AMPA receptors in GABAergic neurons, in addition to excitatory neurons. They can serve redundant roles as evidenced by the increasingly severe phenotype of double knockout mice. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation; L'Oreal USA for Women in Science Program; NIMH.) 1 Gholam K. Motamedi, 2 Michael A. Rogawski, and 3 Stefano Vicini ( 1 Department of Neurology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC ; 2 Department of Physiology  and 3 Epilepsy Research Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIH, Bethesda, MD ) Rationale: Cooling terminates extracellularly recorded spontaneous epileptiform discharges induced by chemoconvulsants in the hippocampal slice (G.K. Motamedi et al., Epilepsy Res., in press). Small temperature drops are effective when cooling is applied rapidly. Here we investigated the cellular mechanisms underlying the effects of rapid cooling on epileptiform activity in different regions of the hippocampus. Methods: Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were carried out from neurons in mouse hippocampal slices perfused with 50 mM 4-aminopyridine at an initial temperature of 32 °C. Rapid cooling was induced at a rate of 2?3 °C/s by switching to cold aCSF. Results: In CA1 and CA2 neurons, rapid cooling typically induced a 10?20 mV membrane depolarization associated with a large inward current, which was eliminated by 1 mM tetrodotoxin (TTX). In contrast, most CA3 neurons responded to cooling with TTX- and bicuculline (25 mM)-insensitive hyperpolarizations that were associated with a steady outward current and decreased conductance. Conclusions: Termination of epileptiform discharges in CA1 and CA2 neurons by rapid cooling may occur by synaptically-driven depolarization block. In CA3 neurons, cooling seems to inhibit a persistent depolarizing conductance, raising the possibility that closure of temperature sensitive TRP channels could mediate the suppression of discharges. (Supported by Grant # R01 NS047700 to S.V.) 1 Alberto E. Musto, and 1 Nicolas G. Bazan ( 1 Neuroscience Center of Excellence, Louisiana State University-Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, LA ) Rationale: Modifications of pyramidal and interneuronal network in neurological disorders are correlated by shape waves and rhythms from electroencephalogram (EEG). Unfortunately how this network participates in epileptogenesis is not yet clear. Methods: Kindling protocol is achieved by stimulating six times daily during 4 days with sub-convulsive electrical stimulations in the dorsal right hippocampus using bipolar electrode units. Spikes and behavioral responses are quantified in order to confirm the progress of kindling. The EEG obtained is recorded using Enhanced Graphics Acquisition for Analysis (RS Electronics Inc.) and offline sort spikes (Plexon Inc.), and analyzed using Neuroexplorer Software (Next Technology) (Musto and Bazan, 2006, Epilepsia, 47:267?76). Results: Spikes and semiological score increase during kindling. Different patterns are discriminated within afterdischarge. A spike-wave pattern appears immediately after the stimulation in combination with a poly-spike complex superimposed over the wave (AD1) and it is followed by another poly-spike complex (AD2). AD2 is followed by a progressive modification of synchronized spikes (AD3). The spreading depression like event (SD) is present at the end of each AD3. Theta oscillation predominates since the first two days of kindling and apparition of significative gamma oscillation is observed within AD2 and precedes the full kindled state. Conclusions: Pyramidal-interneuron network could work properly immediately after each stimulation and could be necessary, but not sufficient for epileptogenesis. The trigger of this oscillation could lead to a mechanism of desynchronisation and synchronism within neuronal network during epileptogenesis. Since a gamma rhythm precedes the generalized seizure, this could be a target for therapeutic intervention. (Supported by NIH Grant: NS 23002.) 1 Prosper N'Gouemo, 2 Carl L. Faingold, and 3 Martin Morad ( 1 Pediatrics, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC ; 2 Pharmacology, Sourthern Illinois University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL ; and 3 Pharmacology, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: The inferior colliculus (IC) neurons are thought to be critical in the initiation of audiogenic reflex seizures in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat (GEPR). We previously reported that high voltage-activated (HVA) Ca2+ channel current density was markedly enhanced in IC neurons of seizure-naive GEPR-3. Ca2+ currents are known to activate K+ currents that initiate the repolarization of action potential and hyperpolarize the membrane. Such Ca2+-activated K+ currents may represent intrinsic inhibitory mechanisms that would restore the resting state and maintain normal physiological excitability. Whether change in Ca2+-activated K+ current density parallel the upregulation of HVA Ca2+ channel current density reported in IC neurons of GEPR-3 is as yet unknown. Here we report on the expression of Ca2+-activated K+ currents in IC neurons and their modification in seizure-naive GEPR-3. Methods: Acutely dissociated neurons of the IC central nucleus were obtained from male seizure-naive GEPR-3s (12?15 week-old) and age-matched control Sprague-Dawley rats. The currents through K+ channels were recorded using the whole cell configuration of the patch clamp techniques. Ca2+-activated K+ currents were recorded in the presence of 2 mM extracellular Ca2+, while dialyzing the neurons with 100 nM free Ca2+ (buffered with 0.5 mM EGTA and Ca2+). Currents were normalized relative to the membrane capacitance as an estimate of current density. Results: Quantification of the current evoked at +20 mV (holding potential ?50 mV) showed that the mean peak current density of total Ca2+-activated K+ current was decreased by ?40% in IC neurons of seizure-naive GEPR-3 (n = 3 cells, 3 rats) that expressed elevated HVA Ca2+ channel current density, as compared to controls (n = 8 cells, 3 rats) Quantification of the voltage dependence of total Ca2+-activated K+ current shows a downregulation of the current density at all voltages tested, on the average, by 60 ± 6% in IC neurons of the GEPR-3 (n = 3 cells, 3 rats), as compared to controls (n = 8 cells, 3 rats). We are currently examining the contribution of various fraction of the current carried by large and small conductance subtype of Ca2+-activated K+ channels. Conclusions: The data suggest that Ca2+-activated K+ current density is downregulated and parallel the enhancement of HVA Ca2+ channel current density in IC neurons of seizure-naïve GEPR-3. The upregulation of HVA Ca2+ channel current density and downregulation of Ca2+-activated K+ current density may provide a cohesive mechanism for neuronal hyperexcitability that lead to seizures and mechanistic insights into therapeutic strategies for generalized epilepsy. (Supported by NIH grants NS05497 (P.N.), AA11628 (C.L.F) and HL16152 (M.M.).) 1 May Lissa Ollivier, 1 Martine P. Emond, 1 Pablo Lema, and 1 Lionel Carmant ( 1 Research Center, CHU Sainte-Justine, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Abnormal neurogenesis secondary to status epilepticus (SE) is thought to be involved in epileptogenesis. Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that the use of the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonist AIDA limits epileptogenesis and prevents SE-induced neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus and hilus. The goal of this study was therefore to explore the specific role of group I mGluR in the abnormal neurogenesis. In this study, group I mGluRs were activated by two agonists. The first agonist, (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), activates both subtype 1 and 5 of the group I mGluRs and the second, 2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG), selectively activates subtype 5. Methods: The agonists were given by intra-cerebro ventricular injection (ICV) in adult (P60) male Sprague-Dawley rats. The agonists were diluted in saline solution (S) and given at doses of 0.83 ?mol/10 ?l for DHPG and 3.33 ?mol/10 ?l for CHPG. Control rats received the same volume of S. To assess neurogenesis, rats of each experimental and control group were given two injections of 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU, 50 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) within a two-hour interval and sacrificed 24 hrs after the second injection. This was done at three time-points after agonist injection (7, 14 and 56 days). Immunohistochemical treatment and cell counting techniques were then performed on the brain tissue. Results: No acute convulsion was observed in the different groups. Animals tolerated well their treatment. BrdU-positive cells were found in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus (DG) in all groups including controls. An increase of 64% in BrdU-positive cells was observed 7 days after CHPG injection and of 11% post DHPG compared to control rats. Fourteen days after agonist injection the levels were at 47% and 38% for CHPG and DHPG respectively. At 56 days post-injection these levels were lower than that of the controls with a decrease in BrdU-positive cells of 28% for CHPG and of 64% for DHPG compared to controls. Conclusions: These results show that the activation of group I mGluR plays a role in neurogenesis in the adult rat hippocampus. It seems that group I mGluR subtype 5 might have a more important implication than subtype 1 in the activation of neurogenesis in the adult rat hippocampus. We now need to define their contribution in SE. (Supported by Savoy Fundation.) 1 Filiz Yilmaz Onat, 1 Nihan Carcak, 1 Rezzan Aker, and 1 Osman Ozdemir ( 1 Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey; Pharmacology, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey; Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey; and Pharmacology, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey ) Rationale: Adult Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg (GAERS) show a failure to reach stage 3, 4 or 5 during the amygdala kindling process. No spike-and-wave discharges in GAERS are observed in rats younger than 30 days of age. In order to determine whether there is a relationship between the occurrence of spike-and-wave discharges and development of kindling, we examined amygdala kindling rate and spike-and-wave discharges in 20-day (PN20) and 30-day old (PN30) GAERS. Methods: Electrodes for stimulation and recording were stereotaxically implanted into basolateral amygdala and cortex of male Wistar (n = 12) and GAERS (n = 16) pups. After a recovery period of 24 h, animals were stimulated at 400 microA (80 Hz, each 1 msec in duration, for a total duration of 2 sec) every 20 min in PN20 and 90 min in PN30 groups. Animals received kindling stimulations until they achieved three stage 5 or the maximum number of stimulations (35). Seizures were scored by using Racine's 5-stage scale. EEGs from amygdala and cortex recorded continously before and after each stimulus to analyze spike-and-wave discharges and afterdischarge durations. Results: PN 20 GAERS and non-epileptic Wistar rats show no difference to achieve stage 5 during the kindling progress. Seven out of 9 GAERS animals reached stage 5 and 2 GAERS stayed at stage 2 after application of 35 stimulations in the PN30 GAERS group. The amygdala kindling rate of the 7 kindled animals in the PN30 GAERS group was significantly slower than that seen in non-epileptic animals. Afterdischarge durations of all groups were similar to each other. Spike-and-wave discharges appeared in PN30 GAERS and no spike-and-wave discharge was observed in PN20 GAERS group. The data of cumulative spike-and-wave discharge show a significant increase in post-stimulation 0?10 min period when compared to pre-stimulation period in PN30 GAERS. Kindling-induced increase in spike-and-wave discharges is specifically observed in the 7 kindled PN30 GAERS. In detail, number of spike-and-wave discharges statistically increased whereas mean duration of spike-and-wave complex did not change. Conclusions: These findings suggest that GAERS pups are more prone to develop kindled seizures than adults and resistance to kindling in GAERS is age-related. Ontogenesis of spike-and-wave discharge seems to be involved in the resistance to kindling. The increase in spike-and-wave discharges in postictal state indicates involvement of thalamus and enhanced activity of thalamic nuclei that are responsible for spike-and-wave activity. In addition, the increased spike-and-wave response to kindling stimulations might be a homeostatic mechanism to restore excitatory drive of circuitry involved in kindling progress. (Supported by Marmara University Research Committee.) 1 Gabriella Panuccio, 2 Giorgio Cruccu, and 1,3 Massimo Avoli ( 1 Deptartments of Neurology and Neurosurgery, and Physiology, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ; 2 Deptartment of Neurological Sciences, La Sapienza University, Rome, Italy ; and 3 Deptartment of Human Physiology and Pharmacology, La Sapienza University, Rome, Italy ) Rationale: The cingulate cortex is a major anatomical component of the limbic system, surrounding the corpus callosum throughout its extent. Through its numerous and complex connections within and beyond the limbic system, the cingulate cortex plays different physiological roles that make of it an eclectic structure. According to Vogt et al. (Science 1979; 204:205?207; Vogt et al., Cereb Cortex, 1992; 2:435?443) two main subdivisions can be identified within the cingulate cortex: the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the posterior cinguate cortex (PCC), the first being characterized by a high density of opioid receptors (Vogt et al., Exp Neurol, 1995; 135:83?92). To date, many studies have focused on the role of the ACC in pain, but little is known about its involvement in epilepsy. Here we investigate the role of mu-opiod receptors, which are capable of hyperpolarizing interneurons (Tanaka and North, J Neurosci, 1994; 14: 1106?1113), in the control of epileptiform activity in an in vitro rodent model of epilepsy. Methods: Field potential recordings were obtained from ACC deep layers in coronal slices of adult rat brains. 4-aminopyridine (4AP) 50 uM was bath-applied for ≥ 1 hour to induce epileptiform activity. Drugs were bath-applied. Results: 4AP-induced epileptiform activity was characterized by prolonged ictal-like discharges (mean duration = 35.2 ± 4.4 s, mean interval = 310.1 ± 34.2 s; n = 9) that were preceded by a slow negative-going event. Ictal-like activity was reversibly abolished by the NMDA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquino-xaline-2,3-dione (CPP, 10uM) and turned into brief epileptiform events (mean duration = 2.6 ± 0.1 s, mean interval 15.2 ± 1.9 s; n = 3) when GABAergic system was blocked by picrotoxin 50uM plus CGP 55845 4uM, GABAA and GABAB receptor antagonists respectively. [D-ala2, N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]-enkephalin (DAGO) 10 uM, a mu-opioid receptors agonist, decreased and eventually abolished ictal-like discharges. This effect was reversed by naloxone 10 uM, an opioid antagonist. Finally, DAGO had no apparent effect on the brief epileptiform discharges recorded after GABAergic system blockade. Conclusions: These results suggest that the ACC is capable of generating epileptiform discharges that primarily depend on NMDA receptors activation. In addition they suggest that opioid receptors may play a critical role in controlling seizures. This action may be mediated via modulation of GABAergic interneuron activity. (Supported by CIHR (Grant 8109), CURE and the Savoy Foundation.) 1 Thomas Papouin, 2 Giulia Curia, 2 Philippe Seguela, and 2,3 Massimo Avoli ( 1 Department of Biology, Ecole Normale Superieure, Paris, France ; 2 Departments of Neurology and Neurosurgery, and Physiology, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ; and 3 Fisiologia e Farmacologia, Universita' Di Roma La Sapienza, Rome, Italy ) Rationale: Fragile X syndrome is the most common inherited cause of mental impairment resulting from the inactivation of the fragile X mental retardation gene (fmr1) and the subsequent inability to produce the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). The neurologic phenotype of fragile X patients includes epilepsy and it is well reproduced in the fmr1 knockout mice, considered a genetic model of epilepsy. The subiculum belongs to the limbic system and plays a crucial role in initiating epileptiform discharges and in gating hippocampal outputs. This gating function depends on GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition, which is important in controling hyperexcitability both at synaptic (GABAA phasic inhibition) and extrasynaptic (GABAA tonic inhibition) levels. In preliminary electrophysiological studies we have found a loss of GABAergic tonic inhibition in the subiculum of seizure prone fragile X knockout mice. In addition, altered expression of α5 and δ GABAA receptor subunits, which compose receptors mediating tonic inhibition, have been reported in other models of epilepsy. Thereby, in the present study we investigated at the molecular level whether a possible loss of GABAergic tonic inhibition occurs in the subiculum of fragile X versus wild type (wt) mice. Methods: We performed real time RT-PCR experiments with RNAs extracted from subiculum of age-matched fragile X and wt mice. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and TATA box binding protein (TBP) housekeeping genes ? reported as suitable for RNA quantification (Radonic et al. 2003) ? were used as reference genes. Using the Pfaffl method (Pfaffl, 2001), we calculated R values (level of expression relative to control) for GABAAα5 and δ subunits genes. Results: GABAAα5 and δ subunits genes were consistantly underexpressed in fragile X mice: for GABAAα5 R = 0.779 ± 0.022 with GAPDH (n = 8) and 0.729 ± 0.017 with TBP (n = 3); for GABAAδ R = 0.829 ± 0.021 with GAPDH (n = 8) and 0.808 ± 0.033 with TBP (n = 3). So the α5 subunit gene expression was decreased by 22% (GAPDH) to 27% (TBP), and the δ subunit gene expression was decreased by 17% (GAPDH) to 20% (TBP) in fragile X versus wt mice. This mild but reproductible decrease was significant: mean R values were different from 1 with a T-test (p values < 0.05). Conclusions: Our data demonstrate that a down-regulation of subunits involved in GABAergic tonic inhibition occurs at the level of RNA in the subiculum of fragile X knockout mice versus control. (Supported by CIHR, FXRFC, CURE and Savoy Foundation.) 1 Manisha N. Patel, and 1 Li-Ping Liang ( 1 Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ) Rationale: Free iron is an important catalyst for the initiation and propagation of free radical reactions and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of a variety of neuronal disorders. Studies in our laboratory have shown that status epilepticus (SE) results in increased mitochondrial superoxide production. The toxicity of superoxide radical is mediated in part via the release of redox-active iron from cellular iron stores including labile iron-sulfur centers. The role of intracellular iron in mediating seizure-induced brain damage is unknown.The goal of this study was to determine whether kainate-induced SE produces changes in mitochondrial iron levels, whether this correlates with mitochondrial and cellular oxidative stress and if SE-induced oxidative stress can be ameliorated with a cell-permeable iron chelator. Methods: Rats were injected with with 12 mg/kg kainic acid and hippocampal mitochondria were analyzed for chelatable (free) iron measured by the bleomycin method 24, 48 and 96 hr post-KA. N,N'-bis (2-hydroxybenzyl) ethylenediamine-N,N'-diacetic acid (HBED), a synthetic lipophilic cell-permeable chelator was used as an iron chelator. Brain HBED concentrations, reduced and oxidized glutathione levels and the oxidative DNA lesion 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8OHdG/2DG) were measured by an HPLC method coupled with electrochemical detection. Results: Kainate-induced SE in rats resulted in a time-dependent increase in chelatable iron in mitochondrial fractions of the hippocampus. The time-course of the iron changes paralleled the inactivation of mitochondrial aconitase, DNA oxidation (8OHDdG/2DG) and glutathione depletion. Systemically administered HBED, a synthetic iron chelator ameliorated SE-induced changes in chelatable iron and oxidative stress. Furthermore, measurement of brain HBED levels confirmed its penetration in hippocampal tissue. Conclusions: These results suggest a role for mitochondrial iron in the pathogenesis of SE-induced brain damage and iron chelation as a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of epileptic brain damage. (Supported by NIH R01NS039587.) 1 Peter R. Patrylo, 1 Isha Tyagi, 1 Amy Willingham, 2 Sung Lee, and 2 Anne Williamson ( 1 Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, Carbondale, IL ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: The elderly have the highest incidence and prevalence for seizure disorders with up to 50% of cases having no identifiable antecedent. Rodents also exhibit an aging-related increase in seizure susceptibility with aged rats having a higher frequency of wet-dog shakes and a shorter latency to onset for hippocampal-associated seizures and status epilepticus during kainate-treatment. Based on kainate's mode of action, we hypothesize that these differences reflect pro-convulsive changes in limbic circuitry. To test this hypothesis, electrophysiological recordings were performed in brain slices. The dentate gyrus was our model region since it is involved in generating wet-dog shakes and limbic seizures, and it is affected preferentially with age. Methods: Field potential and whole-cell recordings were used to assess dentate circuitry and function in brain slices from adult (3?8 mo.) and aged (22?32 mo.) Fischer 344 rats. Results: No aging-related differences were noted in the maximal amplitude of orthodromic evoked field potential responses, or paired-pulse inhibition and facilitation (10 and 50 ms interpulse intervals). However, 5 Hz orthodromic stimulation (10 s) evoked multiple population spikes in 40% of aged slices (n = 10) vs. 0% of adult slices (n = 9; p = 0.033; chi-square). Further, when the dentate's capacity to filter 5 Hz afferent input was assessed by recording in CA3, approximately 30% of aged slices (n = 21) exhibited multiple spikes during the train which often progressed into spontaneous interictal-like events. Similar activity was not seen in adult slices (n = 16; p = 0.036; chi-square). Whole cell recordings revealed no aging-related differences in the membrane properties of granule cells within the linear portion of the IV curve (adult n = 22; aged n = 26), or the conductances and reversal potentials of the fast and slow IPSPs evoked with molecular layer stimulation (adult n = 17; aged n = 21). In contrast, aged granule cells (n = 21) did exhibit a 50% reduction in the frequency of spontaneous IPSPs, compared to adults (n = 20; p < 0.0001; ANOVA). Further, following disinhibition, aged granule cells (n = 16) had an increased probability for generating spontaneous large amplitude prolonged EPSPs (100?400 ms duration; > 10 mV amplitude) compared to adult granule cells (n = 18; p < 0.05; ANOVA). Conclusions: These data reveal that the capacity of the dentate gyrus to respond to and filter afferent input is altered in a pro-convulsive manner in aged rats. Further, these aging-related changes are associated with a compromise in inhibition and an increase in local excitatory activity. These changes could contribute to the enhanced susceptibility to wet-dog shakes and limbic seizures in aged rats during systemic kainate treatment and could contribute to the compromise in spatial learning and memory seen with age. (Supported by NIA and EFA.) 1 Bi-wen Peng, 1 William A. Swan, and 1 Russell M. Sanchez ( 1 Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX ) Rationale: A-type K+ channels can critically determine neuronal excitability and shape spiking patterns. Pharmacological blockade of A-type currents (IA) induces limbic seizures (Juhng et al., 1999 Epilepsy Res 23:675), and decreased or absent IA in principal hippocampal neurons may promote seizures in multiple epilepsy models (Bernard, et al., 2004 Science 305:532; Castro, et al., 2001 J Neurosci 21: 6626). Hypoxia is a major cause of neonatal encephalopathy and seizures, and can lead to epilepsy, but the consequences of an acute episode of seizure-inducing hypoxia are not fully understood. In the current study, we asked whether IA may be altered in hippocampal neurons following neonatal seizure-inducing hypoxia. We examined this in dentate granule cells, as the dentate gyrus is widely believed to gate the propagation of limbic seizures. Methods: Spontaneous seizures were induced by global hypoxia in P10 Long-Evans rat pups (5?7%O2 for 15 min; rectal temp. maintained at 33?34 deg. C.). Whole-cell voltage- and current-clamp recordings were obtained from visually identified dentate gyrus granule cells in hippocampal slices excised 30 min to 7 days post-hypoxia. The magnitude and voltage-dependence of IA, and spiking behavior was compared between control and hypoxia-treated groups. Results: IA was observed in all recorded dentate granule cells (n = 57 control; n = 79 hypoxia). In the hypoxia-treated group, IA amplitude was decreased to 61% of control at maximal activation with no change in the voltage-dependence of activation or steady-state inactivation. Under current-clamp, depolarizing current injection from near rest (?60 to ?65 mV) elicited similar spike patterns between the two groups. However, depolarizing steps to the same absolute current from a negative conditioning potential (?80 mV) to partially remove steady-state IA inactivation revealed a longer delay to initial spike onset in the control (51 ± 3 ms) compared to the hypoxia-treated (15 ± 1 ms) group. This decreased spike latency also was associated with an increased spike frequency in the hypoxia-treated group under this experimental condition. No clear time-dependent differences were observed across days post-hypoxia. Conclusions: Our data indicated that IA was decreased in dentate granule cells acutely and for at least one week following perinatal seizure-inducing hypoxia. Additionally, this decrease in IA was associated with an increased propensity for more rapid action potential firing in response to depolarization from hyperpolarization within a physiological range. Given that the dentate gyrus is widely believed to gate the propagation of limbic epileptiform activity, the observed decrease in IA may decrease this gating function by increasing the intrinsic excitability of dentate granule cells. (Supported by an EFA Postdoctoral Research Training Fellowship (BP) and PHS Grant NS 047385 (RMS).) 1 Zechun Peng, 1 Christine S. Huang, and 1,2 Carolyn R. Houser ( 1 Neurobiology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; and 2 Research Service, VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) appear to be particularly important in activity-dependent forms of plasticity. While previous studies have reported a significant increase in phosphorylated ERK (pERK) levels in the hippocampus following the induction of severe seizures, it is unknown whether ERK is activated during spontaneous seizures. The goals of this study were to determine if ERK phosphorylation increases after spontaneous seizures and describe the time course and distribution of pERK labeling. Methods: Adult C57BL/6 mice were injected with pilocarpine (320 mg/kg) to induce status epilepticus that was then stopped by injection of diazepam (5 mg/kg) 2 h after seizure onset. Beginning two weeks after status epilepticus, animals were observed for spontaneous behavioral seizures and perfused transcardially with fixative at intervals between 2 min and 24 h after the onset of spontaneous seizures. Tissue containing the hippocampal formation was processed for immunohistochemical localization of pERK. Results: In control mice, moderate to strong pERK immunoreactivity was detected in cell bodies and dendrites of neurons that were scattered throughout the hippocampal formation. Labeled neurons were most prominent in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer, subiculum and entorhinal cortex. In mice sacrificed 24 h and longer after spontaneous seizures (n = 22), pERK labeling was substantially decreased throughout the hippocampal formation. However, as early as 2 min after the onset of a spontaneous seizure (n = 5), the cell bodies of many dentate granule cells were moderately to strongly labeled. Increased pERK immunoreactivity was also evident in the entorhinal cortex, subiculum and pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus. At this time point, pERK labeling in the neocortex was also increased but to a lesser extent than in the hippocampal formation. By 5 min after the onset of spontaneous seizure (n = 3), moderate to strong pERK labeling was evident in virtually all dentate granule cells, the majority of CA1 pyramidal cells and numerous neurons in the entorhinal cortex. At 15 min after spontaneous seizures (n = 6), pERK labeling in these regions was lower than at earlier time points. By 30 min and longer after spontaneous seizures, pERK-immunoreactivity had returned to very low levels, similar to that in animals at 24 h or more after spontaneous seizures. Conclusions: ERK was activated in neurons throughout the hippocampal formation near the time of spontaneous seizures. This seizure-related phosphorylation of ERK could be detected early but for only a short period. The functional significance of such ERK activation is unknown but could be part of the seizure initiation process and potentially contribute to long-term plastic changes in the epileptic animals. (Supported by VA Medical Research Funds and NIH Grant NS046524 to CRH.) 1 Heidrun Potschka, 1 Judith Winter, 2 Bjoern Bauer, 2 Anika M.S. Hartz, and 2 David S. Miller ( 1 Deptartment of Pharmacology, Toxicology, and Pharmacy, University of Veterinary Medicine, Hannover, Germany ; and 2 Laboratory of Pharmacology and Chemistry, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences/National Institutes of Health, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Accumulating data indicate that seizure-induced upregulation of the multidrug transporter, P-glycoprotein (Pgp), can contribute to pharmacoresistance. Enhanced Pgp expression in brain capillary endothelial cells seems to limit brain penetration of antiepileptic drugs. Thus, interaction with factors mediating seizure-induced upregulation of Pgp may be one strategy to limit the development of pharmacoresistance. There is evidence that cyclooxygenase (COX) may be involved in seizure-induced upregulation of Pgp. On one hand COX is induced by seizure activity and on the other hand COX can induce Pgp expression. In the present study, we tested whether COX inhibition can prevent induction of Pgp by seizure activity. Methods: Status epilepticus (SE) was induced in rats by fractionated pilocarpine administration (10 mg/kg i.p. every 30 min). Eighteen animals received daily i.p. injections of the COX inhibitor indomethacin (2.5 mg/kg i.p. 2 times daily) starting at the day before status epilepticus induction. Twelve rats received corresponding vehicle injections. SE duration was limited to 90 min using diazepam. Rats were perfused two days following SE. Pgp expression was analyzed in the hippocampus and adjacent cortex by immunhistochemistry. Expression of both groups with SE was compared with that of an additional control group (n = 8) which received vehicle injections, but in which no SE was induced. Results: Severity of SE was not influenced by indomethacin treatment. However, exitus during SE and at the day following SE was more frequent in the group of indomethacin treated rats (44%) as compared to vehicle treated rats (8%). Pgp expression was significantly upregulated in the hippocampus and adjacent cortex following SE. Indomethacin treatment prevented this upregulation both in the hippocampus and the cortex. A pronounced indomethacin-mediated neuroprotection was obvious in the piriform cortex by visual inspection of the brain sections. Currently, we are studying the degree of neurodegeneration in the hippocampus by neuronal cell counts to evaluate whether neuroprotection was also achieved in this brain region. Conclusions: The data indicate that cyclooxygenase plays a critical role in seizure-induced upregulation of Pgp. Inhibition of inflammatory cascades may be a valid strategy to prevent Pgp-mediated pharmacoresistance. Further validation of this strategy is necessary with a focus on safety. (Supported by National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, Division of Intramural Research.) 1 Kim L. Powell, 1 Caroline Ng, 2 Sheng-Hong Xu, 1 Terence J. O'Brien, 2 David A. Williams, and 3 Chris A. Reid ( 1 Departments of Medicine and Surgery (RMH/WH), University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ; 2 Department of Physiology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ; and 3 Howard Florey Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Inducible changes in ion channel expression influencing neuronal excitability are emerging as potential mechanisms in human epilepsies. A relative new comer to the list of ion channels involved in epilepsy is the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channels (HCN). Several studies in chronic human epilepsy and various animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) have reported alterations in the HCN expression and function in the hippocampus. However, these changes have only being reported in immature animals or models with significant neuronal loss or in end stage epileptic patients. Therefore, whether these reported changes in HCN expression are a critical component of epileptogenesis in uncertain. Methods: In this study we have measured HCN1 and HCN1 mRNA expression in two different animal models of TLE; the amygdala kindling model (associated with minimal cell loss) and the kainic acid (KA) post-status epilepticus model (associated with significant cell death) during early epileptogenesis. 7?8 week old female rats were studied. The kindled group were electrically stimulated in the left amygdala until ?fully kindled? (5 class V seizures according to the racine classification). The KA group received i.p. KA injections (2.5?5 mg/kg) hourly until continuous seizures were observed on EEG. At designated time points, brains were extracted and hippocampal subregions (CA1  2 Department of Radiotherapy, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium ; and 3 Institute of Clinical Neuroscience, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden ) Rationale: A common feature in kindling and status epilepticus models for Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (TLE) is enhanced neurogenesis in the subgranular layer of the hippocampus. Although there is evidence that some of these newborn neurons migrate towards ectopic locations and have abnormal firing behaviour, no clear relationship between enhanced neurogenesis and epileptogenesis has been demonstrated. In the present study we investigated the effect of blocking neurogenesis by low dose whole brain ?-irradiation on hippocampal kindling epileptogenesis. Methods: Female rats (n = 16) were implanted with a bipolar recording and stimulation electrode in the right dorsal hippocampus. One week after implantation half of the rats were subjected to low-dose (8 Gy) whole brain irradiation. One or two days after irradiation, rats were subjected to a rapid alternate day kindling acquisition protocol and received 48 stimulations spread over 4 alternating days. One and two weeks after termination of kindling acquisition, rats were retested by giving ten additional stimulations per test. The afterdischarge threshold, afterdischarge duration and the clinical seizure severity (Racine stages 1?5) were compared between irradiated and non-irradiated rats. Results: All rats displayed afterdischarges and clinical seizures with an increasing length and severity, until they displayed five or more consecutive stage 5 seizures and were labelled fully kindled. At kindling day 3 and 4 mean seizure severity in irradiated rats was significantly worse compared to non-irradiated rats. This difference was evident because seizures in irradiated rats developed more quickly to the most severe seizure state compared to seizures in non-irradiated rats. In line with these differences, afterdischarge threshold at kindling day 4 was significantly lower in irradiated compared to non-irradiated rats. All these differences were temporary and could no longer be demonstrated during retest stimulations. Conclusions: Low-dose whole brain irradiation, administered in order to block neurogenesis, leads to a lowered threshold to electrically evoke an epileptic event one week after irradiation. At this time point, irradiated rats also displayed more rapidly more severe seizures compared to non-irradiated rats. These effects were only temporary and no longer evident two and three weeks after irradiation. We can conclude that blocking neurogenesis by low-dose whole brain irradiation has mild accelerating but temporary effects on epileptogenesis. (Supported by the Institute for the Promotion of Innovation through Science and Technology (IWT) in Flanders and UCB Pharma.) 1 YogendraSinh H. Raol, 2 Madeline E. Rhodes, 2 Cheryl A. Frye, and 1 Amy R. Brooks-Kayal ( 1 Division of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Department of Psychology, University at Albany, Albany, NY ) Rationale: A number of studies suggest that progesterone and its metabolite 5α-pregnane-3α-ol-20-one (3α,5α-THP) act as endogenous anticonvulsants. 3α,5α-THP is a positive modulator of GABA(A) receptors and reduced endogenous levels of 3α,5α-THP increase seizure susceptibility. Studies from various laboratories suggest that early-life seizures increase susceptibility to development of seizures in later life. In the current study we induced prolonged status-epilepticus (SE) at postnatal day 10 (P10) and measured levels of progesterone and 3α,5α-THP in plasma and hippocampus immediately after SE and in adulthood. Methods: Sprague-Dawley rat pups at P9 were injected intraperitoneally with 3mEq/kg lithium followed 14?18 hrs later by 60 mg/kg pilocarpine. Control rats were treated identically to that of seizure rats but were injected with 0.9% saline on P10. Trunk blood and brains were collected 6 hours after the onset of SE or in adulthood for measurement of progesterone and 3α,5α-THP in plasma and hippocampus by radioimmunoassay. Results: 3α,5α-THP levels in hippocampus increased significantly (p < 0.0002) in rats that were sacrificed 6 hours after SE induction. Plasma and hippocampal levels of progesterone and plasma 3α,5α-THP were not different in SE as compared to control rats. Rats that had experienced SE at P10 and were sacrificed in adulthood had lower levels of 3α,5α-THP in plasma as compared to control rats (p < 0.013). Levels of 3α,5α-THP in hippocampus and progesterone levels in plasma and brain were not significantly different between seizure and control rats. Conclusions: These results suggest that 3α,5α-THP levels increase locally in association with P10 SE, possibly as an adaptive mechanism to inhibit seizures. Long-term decreases in circulating levels of 3α,5α-THP in adult rats that had experienced SE in early-life may contribute to increased seizure susceptibility in these rats. (Supported by NIH NS38595 to ABK and MH-067698 to CAF.) 1 Adi Cymerblit, and 1,2 Yitzhak Schiller ( 1 Physiology, Technion Medical School, Haifa, Israel ; and 2 Neurology, Rambam Medical Center, Haifa, Israel ) Rationale: Seizures are associated with hyper-synchronous electrical activity in the EEG recordings. However, the network dynamics at the single neuron level during the development and maintenance of seizures remains largely unknown. In this study we studied the firing behavior of single neurons, and monitored synchronization between the different recorded neurons during developing and ongoing seizures evoked by pilocarpine and picrotoxin. Methods: Multi-electrode extra-cellular recordings of single units and local field potentials were performed from the hippocampus of anesthsized (urethane) and awake rats under control conditions and after administration of pilocarpine and picrotoxin. The two convulsants were administered either by systemic (I.P.) or local (intra-hippocampal) injection. In addition simultaneous intracellular whole-cell recordings were performed. Results: Immediately after administration of pilocarpine and picrotoxin, prior to initiation of clinical or electrographic seizures, the frequency of spikes decreased, and synchronization between neurons, as measured by the cross-correlogram, markedly diminished or disappeared all together. In contrast after clinical and electrographic seizures initiated the frequency of spikes gradually increased, neurons tended to fire in bursts and the inter-neuron synchronization markedly increased. The cross-correlograms during the clinical seizure revealed higher values and wider time-windows as compared to control conditions. Similar results were obtained in anesthetized and awake rats; in systemic (I.P.) and local intra-hippocampal administration of the convulsants, and with pilocarpine and picrotoxin. Simultaneous intracellular whole-cell recording from anesthetized rats demonstrated the intracellular correlate of developing seizures. Conclusions: In this study we showed that during the development of pharmacologically induced seizures synchronization of firing between different neurons in the hippocampus decreased dramatically, while only later during clinical seizures inter-neuronal synchronization gradually increased. These findings may promote our understanding of the network dynamics responsible for seizure initiation and maintenance. Moreover, in future it may serve as the basis for detection of impending seizures in human patients. (Supported by ISF foundation; Rapapport family Foundation.) 1 Ulrich Schridde, 2 Manjula Khubchandani, 2 Basavaraju G. Sanganahalli, 1 Dario J. Englot, 2 Fahmeed Hyder, and 1,3 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Neurol., Yale University Sch. Med., New Haven, CT ; 2 Diagnos. Radiol., Yale University, New Haven, CT ; and 3 Neurobiol., Yale University, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Recently, fMRI became an important tool to study brain activity in epilepsy by investigating increases/decreases in the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) response, known to be associated with changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and -volume (CBV). Although increases in the BOLD response have been linked to increases in neuronal activity, decreases of the signal, although often present, are generally neglected and still poorly understood. A detailed understanding of the relationship and causes of the different hemodynamic and neuronal signals is however essential for interpreting neuroimaging data in epilepsy and also has important implications for its treatment. Methods: 26 Wistar rats were injected with bicuculline (0.5 mg/kg, iv) to induce generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Increased/decreased brain activity during seizures were investigated by combining fMRI and CBV imaging with neurophysiological recordings (field and unit activity), and local CBF measurements using laser Doppler flowmetry. Results: The fMRI showed widespread BOLD and CBV increases throughout the cortex, basal ganglia and thalamus during seizures. Neurophysiological recordings, likewise, showed increased CBF, local field potential power and neuronal firing rate in cortical areas. Surprisingly, however, most of the rats had a decreased BOLD response in the hippocampus, which was accompanied by increased CBF and neuronal activity. Conclusions: Our results show that during generalized seizures the brain shows rather heterogeneous BOLD activity with increases/decreases in distinct networks. While our data confirm that increases in the BOLD signal during seizures correlate with increases in CBF, CBV and neuronal activity, we found that in the hippocampus increases in the latter three variables are associated with a decreased BOLD response. This observation argues against the hypothesis of a vascular steal phenomenon as cause for a decreased BOLD signal. Although the cause for the local dissociation of the signals is not known, one possibility is that the neuronal oxygen consumption in the hippocampus during seizures exceeds its supply; which is currently under investigation in our laboratory. In conclusion, our data show that fMRI can reveal important information about the pathophysiology of epilepsy and its treatment, but that the interpretation of the neuroimaging signals during seizures should proceed with caution, and might be different depending on brain region. (Supported by NIH R01 NS049307 and the Blattmachr Fund (HB); NIH R01 MH67528 and DC03710 (FH).) 1 Arjune Sen, 2 Lillian Martinian, 1 Kate Chandler, 3 Tom Jacobs, 1 Matthew C. Walker, 3 Margareta Nikolic, 1,2 Maria Thom, and 1 Sanjay M. Sisodiya ( 1 Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, The Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom ; 2 Division of Neuropathology, The Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom ; and 3 Department of Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Imperial College, London, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) is amongst the most common causes of medically refractory epilepsy in adults. Histologically HS is characterised by segmental neuronal loss, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this cell loss remain uncertain. Deregulation of the serine-threonine kinase cyclin dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) by p25, the calpain-mediated cleavage product of the physiological cdk5 activator p35, occurs in several cell death paradigms. Recently we demonstrated subfield-specific deregulation of cdk5 in human HS while animal models have shown that abnormal phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor might contribute to epileptogenesis. Intriguingly, when cdk5 is deregulated it phosphorylates NMDA receptors resulting in excitotoxicity. We therefore hypothesised that there might be abnormal cdk5-mediated phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor in HS. Methods: Surgically-resected cases of HS with adjacent histologically-normal temporal lobe and hippocampi from rats sacrificed at intervals following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus were examined for cdk5, p25/p35, NeuN, NMDA and cdk5 phosphorylated NMDA receptor using immunohistochemistry, confocal microscopy, western blots and kinase assays. Results: Animal models demonstrated a time-dependent increase in the ratio of p25:p35 and in p25-cdk5 activity following administration of pilocarpine. p25-cdk5 phosphorylated NMDA was not detected in control animals, but was strongly detected seven days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus and persisted until at least five months after pilocarpine treatment. Furthermore, despite neuronal loss, hippocampi from patients with HS had increased levels of p25-cdk5 phosphorylated NMDA compared to adjacent histologically-normal temporal lobe. Conclusions: Our results suggest that cdk5 might contribute to the neuronal loss, and potentially the epileptogenicity, of HS through direct phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor. (Supported by Medical Research Council, UK, Guarantors of Brain and The Wellcome Trust.) 1 Sevgi Turker Gorgulu, 1 Nihan Kara, 1 Zeynep Gunes, 1 Nurbay Ates, 1 Gul Ilbay, and 1 Feride Severcan ( 1 Biology, Middle East Technical University, Ankara, Turkey; Biology, Middle East Technical University, Ankara, Turkey; Biology, Middle East Technical University, Ankara, Turkey; Physiology, Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, Turkey; Physiology, Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, Turkey; and Biology, Middle East Technical University, Ankara, Turkey ) Rationale: The epilepsies are a heterogeneous group of symptom complexes, whose common features is the recurrence of seizures (Brown et al., 1993). It is known that epileptic activity induce many molecular and structural changes in the brain (Eid et al., 2004). In order to evaluate these changes we aimed to investigate the consequences of a convulsant agent called pentylenetetrazol (PTZ). PTZ is a chemical frequently used in the study of epileptic seizures since it produces a reliable discriminative stimulus (De Boer et al. 1982; Bradford 1989; De Deyn and Macdonald 1989). The present study was focused to analyze the changes resulted from sub-consulvant and consulvant dose of PTZ on rat brain homogenate at molecular level by using Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. Methods: Experimental animals were divided into three groups as control (n = 6), sub-convulsant (n = 6) and convulsant (n = 6). The treated groups were made epileptic by a single administration of sub-convulsant (25 mg/kg) and convulsant (60 mg/kg) dose of PTZ. Following PTZ administration, behavioral observations were carried out to determine epileptic activity for 30 min. Subsequently, in the FTIR spectra, the shift in peak positions, the change in bandwidths and the intensity/area values of the bands were determined and compared in between control and treated groups. Results: The results revealed that the concentration of unsaturated lipids decreased for both treated samples. The lipid/protein ratio slightly increased for sub-convulsant group whereas this ratio decreased for convulsant group. An increase in the lipid order and a decrease in the fluidity of membrane were observed for low dose of PTZ's group. However, for high dose of PTZ's opposite effects on the order and fluidity were observed. In addition, the changes in hydrogen bonding capacity of head groups of membrane lipids as well as a decrease in the protein concentration caused by the administration of PTZ were obtained. Conclusions: Consequently, these results show that the early alteration at molecular level resulted from chemically induced epileptic activity can be detected by FTIR. Moreover, the molecular effects of unconvulsive and convulsive epileptic seizures can be compared by this method. Brown S. et al., Seizure (1993) 2: 91?103. Bradford H. F. Epilepsia (1989) 30: 17?25. De Boer T., et al., Brain Res. (1982) 253: 153?160. De Deyn P. P. and Macdonald R. L. Epilepsia (1989) 30: 17?25. Eid et al., (2004) 3, 77 Lancet Neurology 28?37. 1 Maria Sitges, and 1 Vladimir Nekrassov ( 1 Department of Cellular Biology and Physiology, Biomedical Research Institute, UNAM, Mexico; and Basic and Applied Research Division, National Rehabilitation Institute, SSA, Mexico ) Rationale: Several of the most effective antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are believed to stop the paroxysmal neuronal activity acting as Na+ channel blockers. However, no single study comparing in parallel their effects on brain Na+ channel-mediated responses is available.In this work the effects of increasing concentrations of CBZ, PHT, LTG, OXC and Top on the release of the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter, glutamate (Glu), induced by the selective activation of Na+ channels with the Na+ channel opener toxin, veratridine, were investigated; and compared with the effect of the memory enhancer with antiepileptic potential, VPC (ethyl apovincamine-22-oate). Previously we have shown that VPC is a potent inhibitor of the epileptic cortical activity induced by the convulsing agents, pentylenetetrazole and 4-aminopyridine in the guinea pig in vivo (Epilepsy Res. 2004; 60: 63?71; Clin. Neurophysiol. 2004; 115: 2711?17), that VPC inhibits the tetrodotoxin sensitive fraction of the rise in internal Na+ induced by 4-amonipyridine (Neurochem. Int. 2005; 46: 533?540)) in vitro, and that VPC and CBZ presynaptic effects in vitro are additive (Neurochem. Int. 2006; 49: 55?61). In this investigation the efficacy and potency of several of the most widely used AEDs and VPC on Glu release to veratridine was compared. Methods: These experiments were done following methods that we have described previously (J. Neurosci. Res.1995; 40: 613?621; Neurochem. Res. 1996; 21: 889?895). Results: Under equivalent experimental conditions, CBZ, PHT, LTG and OXC are required in the range from 150 to 1500 uM in order to progressively inhibit the release of [3H]Glu induced by veratridine,VPC is required in a much lower range of concentrations (from 1.5 to 15 uM), and Top was able to inhibit the veratridine-induced response in about 20% only at the highest dose tested (1500 uM). Conclusions: It is concluded that, with the exception of Top, the mechanism of action of all the AEDs tested involves a reduction of the carrier-mediated fraction of Glu release through a decrease in cerebral presynaptic Na+ channels permeability. Considering that the high doses of AEDs required to control seizures are frequently accompanied by adverse secondary effects, the much higher potency of VPC for blocking presynaptic Na+ channels could be advantageous in the treatment of epilepsy. [figure 1] (Supported by: This work was financially supported by Psicofarma S.A. de C.V. and by project P-48695 from SEP-CONACYT.) 1 Alexander A. Sosunov, 1 Xiaoping Wu, 2 Casper Caspersen, 1 Robert R. Goodman, and 1 Guy M. McKhann II ( 1 Neurological Surgery, Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 2 Pediatrics, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: Uptake and metabolism of synaptically released glutamate by astrocytes is critical for brain homeostasis and protection of neurons against overexcitation. To test the hypothesis that glutamate uptake and metabolism are deteriorated in gliotic protoplasmic astrocytes, we carried out immunohistochemical and electrophysiological analysis of surgically resected brain tissue in patients with pharmaco-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy and Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC). Methods: Specimens of neocortex and hippocampi from pharmaco-resistent MTLE (n = 44) and cortical tubers resected from epileptic TSC patients (n = 12) were studied with immunohistochemical and patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques. Results: Areas of severe gliosis/sclerosis typical of cortical tubers in TSC and hippocampal sclerosis in MTLE were composed of ?scar? astrocytes characterized by high upregulation of GFAP and S100 beta and less upregulation of CD44 and alphaB-crystallin. These cells revealed dramatic reduction in the expression of glutamine synthetase (GS) and astrocytic glutamate transporters proteins (GT: EAAT1 and EAAT2). In addition, scar astrocytes underwent conspicuous alterations in their ?gross? morphology consisting of transformation into fibrous-like astrocytes accompanied by elongation of cell processes but loss of fine lamellipodial structures. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings of scar astrocytes showed dramatic decrease in inward glutamate transport currents, in comparison to control protoplasmic astrocytes. Conclusions: Downregulation of GS and GT expression proceeds in parallel with progression of gliotic changes in protoplasmic astrocytes. We hypothesize that these glutamate metabolic alterations may not be pathology specific, but rather may constitute a common effect of profound reconstruction of the cellular cytoskeleton during the development of gliosis. Astrocytic lamellipodia may be the main subcellular compartment involved in glutamate uptake by protoplasmic astrocytes. These structures are significantly lost in association with GFAP upregulation in gliosis. (Supported by Parents Against Childhood Epilepsy; R21 NS 42334.) 1 Matt Stead, 1 Fredric B. Meyer, 1 Cindy L. Nelson, 1 Stephen J. Goerss, and 1 Gregory Worrell ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: High frequency oscillations (>= 40 Hz) in epileptogenic brain are not yet understood, but are a recognized phenomenon in a large proportion of patients with epilepsy. DC potential shifts have been noted in animal models of seizure but are not routinely recorded in humans with epilepsy. The physiologic effect of extracellularly mediated DC potentials on transmembrane voltage-gated ion channels suggests itself as a potential contributor to ictogenesis, and thus worthy of investigation. Methods: To investigate the potential relationship between high and low frequency oscillations in epilepsy we recorded continuous unfiltered EEG from from 15 patients implanted with intracranial electrodes as part of their evaluation for epilepsy surgery. The acquistion system used had a dynamic range of +132 to ?132 mV, no hardware filtering, and a per channel digitization rate of 32556 Hz. The data were recorded from Pt/Ir clinical intracranial electrodes in both depth and grid/strip configurations. Nine of the patients had mesial temporal onset, the remaining 6 had neocortical onset seizures. Results: High frequency oscillations, defined here as > = 40Hz, were observed in the clinically determined seizure onset leads in all 15 patients. The seizure onset frequency ranged from 45 to 143 Hz. In 14 of the 15 patients the high frequency discharge was cotemporaneous with a large scale DC shift ranging from 0.6 to 1.7 mV. The shift occasionally preceded the high frequency discharge by many seconds as shown in the accompanying figure, however in some cases the high frequency discharge appeared to precede the DC shift. Conclusions: There is high degree of association between the DC shifts and high frequency oscillations during seizure. Further investigations into the cause of this association may lead to a better understanding of ictogenesis and open novel avenues for treatment. [figure 1] (Supported by: Salary support for Dr. Stead was provided by the Epilepsy Foundation of America.) 1 Waldemar B. Swiercz, 1 Phill A. Williams, 2 Edward F. Dudek, and 1 Kevin J. Staley ( 1 Pediatrics Neurology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ; and 2 Physiology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT ) Rationale: We used a computational model of simultaneous discharges of a population of pyramidal cells in the hippocampal area CA3 to estimate the relationship between the network connectivity and the probability of spontaneous bursts. Prior investigations (Traub and Miles, Neuronal Networks of the Hippocampus, Cambridge University Press, 1991; Lytton et al. Computer models of hippocampal circuit changes of the kindling model of epilepsy Artif Intell Med. 13:81?97 1998) have supported a nonlinear relationship between connectivity and the probability of synchronous population discharges. In our experiments we wished to simulate the growth of recurrent synaptic connections after an epileptogenic insult (sprouting) in order to model the effects on sprouting on network activity. Methods: Our artificial network model employed an array of 10000 pyramidal cells and 225 interneurons. Interactions between the neurons take place via a randomly generated mesh of synapses that includes activity-dependent depression. The strength of glutamatergic synaptic connections is modifiable according to rules governing long-term synaptic plasticity. The network was initially generated with sparsely connected neurons, simulating the network prior to sprouting. Then after each experiment we increased network connectivity to simulate sprouting of synaptic connections. This was accomplished by increasing the maximum feasible radius of synaptic connections and randomly generating additional glutamatergic synapses onto principal cells and interneurons. Results: We performed experiments for networks with various connectivities, focusing on spontaneous bursting behavior. An average number of incoming connections per neuron in separate experiments ranged between 35 and 208. The relationship between the connectivity and the average incoming connections count was close to linear. Interestingly the relationship between network connectivity and spontaneous bursting behavior was very nonlinear. This agrees with our findings regarding seizure frequency vs. time following an epileptogenic injury, (see abstract by Williams PA et al.), and with prior modeling studies employing more detailed neuronal models (Traub and Miles 1991). Conclusions: The rapid increase in seizure probability that eventually follows an epileptogenic insult may be the result of a more linear increase in local connectivity arising from axonal sprouting. The modeling data suggest that a similar and cotemporaneous change in the pattern of interictal spikes should also be evident. Further, the evolution of interictal spikes over time may reflect changes in the underlying epileptogenic network that may help in clinical decision making regarding long-term seizure probability. These hypotheses are being tested using continuous radiotelemetric EEG monitoring. (Supported by NIH (NINDS).) 1 Feng Ru Tang, 1 Dong Liang Ma, and 1 Shwn Chin Chia ( 1 Epilepsy Research Lab, National Neuroscience Institute, Singapore, Singapore ) Rationale: It has been shown that different isoforms of protein kinase C (PKC) are involved in the signal transduction of the 3 groups of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) In animal model of seizure, different subtypes of PKC isoforms have been reported to play different roles in epileptogenesis. However, no similar study has been done in the hippocampus from patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: Immunocytochemical study at both light and electron microscopic level, double immunostaining, and RT-PCR were used. Results: In the hippocampus from patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, PKCα, PKC?, PKC?, PKC?, PKC? and PKC? immunopositive products decreased in the stratum pyramidale of CA1 and CA3 areas. However, no obvious change was found in CA2 area. PKC? and PKC? immunopositive products increased in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus, however, PKC?, and PKC? immunopositive products decrease in these cells. Double labeling immunocytochemistry showed the co-localization of PKCα, PKCg, PKC?2 with metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5), G-protein subtype Gq/11α and phospholipids C beta1 subtype (PLC?1) in pyramidal neurons in CA1?3 areas. Under electron microscopic level, PKCδ, PKC?, PKC?, or PKC? was located in the post-synaptic elements. However, PKC? was found in both pre- and post-synaptic elements. Gene expression of different isoforms of PKC such as PKCα, PKC?, PKC?, PKC?, PKC? and PKC? has been studied by RT-PCR in the hippocampus of the ?normal? human samples. We showed relative lower expression of PKC? when compared to other PKC isoforms. Conclusions: PKC? and PKC? may be related to the hyperactivity of granular cells and involved in epileptogenesis. PKCα, PKCg, PKC2 may be involved in mGluR5, Gq/11α and PLC?1 related signal transduction in pyramidal neurons. (Supported by a research grant from National Medical Research Council (No: NMRC/0731/2003).) 1 Sevgi Turker Gorgulu, 1 Feride Severcan, 1 Stephen Wassall, and 1 William Stillwell ( 1 Biology, Middle East Technical University, Ankara, Turkey; Biology, Middle East Technical University, Ankara, Turkey; Physics, Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis, IN; and Biology, Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Although there have been progresses to understand the mechanisms underlying epilepsy, the cellular and molecular basis of epilepsy still is not known yet very well (Patel, 2004; McCorry et al., 2004; Wolfgang and Dieter, 2002). Therefore, epileptic seizures remain as uncontrolled in at least 30% of all the cases. In order to promote new advances in the development of antiepileptic drugs a better understanding of cellular and molecular mechanisms of epilepsy should be the ultimate goal (Avanzini and Franceschetti, 2003). This can be achieved by beginning to evaluate epilepsy-induced changes in the brain cells. However, beside the consequences of epileptic activity, any possible effect of experimental convulsants on the cells should be under consideration. In order to evaluate the effects of convulsants we initially aimed to investigate the interaction of model membranes with a convulsant agent called picrotoxin (PTX). PTX is a noncompetitive antagonist at GABA-A receptors and it blocks the GABA-activated chloride ionophore (Mazarati et al., 2004). Methods: This study was performed to characterize the effects of PTX on some parameters of dipalmitoylphosphotidylcholine (DPPC) model membrane system. We used differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), electrospin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy and steady-state fluorescence spectroscopy. All studies were carried out with three different concentrations of PTX (1 mol%, 12 mol% and 24 mol%). Results: The DSC results revealed that PTX has little effect on the melting behavior of DPPC. Indeed, ESR and steady-state fluorescence data indicated that PTX does not significantly affect the order and fluidity of DPPC model membranes. Conclusions: All these results suggest that PTX does not directly interact with membrane lipids, which means that it only acts by binding the membrane protein. Therefore, it can be concluded that the molecular and cellular alterations of chemically induced seizures are only resulted from the consequences of epileptic activity not from convulsant itself. (Supported by Avanzini G., and Franceschetti S., Lancet Neurology 2003; 2: 33?42. Manisha Patel M., Free Radical Biology  2 1st Physiology, Miyazaki Medical College, University of Miyazaki, Miyazaki, Japan ; 3 Pharmacology and Physiology, Saint Louis University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO ; and 4 Section of Chemistry, Department of Medical Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Miyazaki, Miyazaki, Japan ) Rationale: EAAC-1 functions in the re-uptake of extracellular glutamate that then leads to synthesis of GABA. Knockdown of EAAC-1 by anti-sense induces convulsive seizures in rats. GTRAP3?18 suppresses the binding affinity of glutamate with EAAC1 on the GABAergic neuron. The aim in this study was to measure the changes in GTRAP-18 expression induced by PTZ-kindling, and evaluate PTZ-kindling development in rats with knockdown of GTRAP3?18. Methods: Exp.1; Male Sprague-Dawley rats were kindled by repetitive i.p. injection of PTZ (16 mg/ml in saline, 40 mg/kg) at the rate of three times a week. Control animals were injected at the same rate with an equal volume of saline. Behavior was observed and scored following each injection. Animals were considered fully kindled after having two consecutive stage 5 seizures. Only fully kindled animals were used for the experiment. Six animals in each group were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and killed by decapitation on day 14 of the experiment. PTZ animals were sacrificed following a last stage 5 seizure. A crude membrane fraction extracted from both hippocampi was used for western blot followed by hybridized with GTRAP3?18 polyclonal antibody. Exp. 2; Rats underwent i.c.v. injection of oligonuleotide of anti-sense primer (n = 12) and sense primer (n = 12) for GTRAP3?18. Following these injections half of the rats in each group were used to measure the knockdown ratio of GTRAP3?18, while the remaining rats were used for PTZ-kindling. Results: Exp.1; In PTZ-kindled rats, GTRAP3?18 was reduced to 89% of control. Exp.2; GTRAP3?18 was decreased by about 40% of control in rats receiving the anti-sense oligonuleotide. Further, in these animals, PTZ seizure duration was significantly prolonged, latency more brief and kindling onset earlier when compared to control animals. Conclusions: Prior work with microdialysis from GTRAP3?18 antisense treated rats has shown that extracellular GABA concentration is markedly elevated. In this experiment, PTZ kindling over 14 days caused decrease in GTRAP3?18 protein. This down regulation of GTRAP3?18 may be a fundamental response to kindling to enhance GABA synthesis in compensation for the enduring process of epileptogenesis. However, GTRAP3?18 knockdown was associated with worse responses to PTZ. Our observation suggests that there is a pathological reversal of GABA action between inhibition and excitation that is induced by changes in Cl- gradient with enhanced GABA release. (Supported by Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research (C) (2) (18591297) from the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Culture, Japan (to Y.U.).) 1,2 Jana Veliskova, 1 James G. Heida, and 1,2,3 Solomon L. Moshe ( 1 Departments of Neurology ; 2 Neuroscience ; and 3 Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: Seizures affect males more often than females. The substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) belongs to an endogenous seizure-controlling network. Previous studies suggest that the SNR has age- and sex-specific features in terms of seizure control via activation of the GABAA receptor system. The sexual differentiation of the SNR is apparent during early development. At postnatal day 15 (P15), bilateral SNR infusions of the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol have a proconvulsant effect in males and no effect on flurothyl clonic seizure threshold in females. Exposure to testosterone during early postnatal development determines the male SNR response to muscimol. Here we investigated whether the testosterone effects on development of the male SNR response to muscimol are mediated via activation of androgen receptors during early postnatal development. Methods: In order to block the androgen receptors, male rat pups were injected daily with the androgen receptor antagonist flutamide (10 mg/kg i.p.) at P0-P2. Previously we have found that testosterone exposure during this time period leads to the male, proconvulsant effects of SNR muscimol infusions. At P13, we implanted cannulae in the SNR bilaterally using stereotaxic surgery. At P15, muscimol (100 ng/0.25 ?l per side) or saline (0.25?l per side) was infused bilaterally 30 minutes prior to flurothyl seizure testing. The clonic seizure threshold was determined as the amount of flurothyl necessary to induce the seizure. Subsequently cannulae placements were confirmed histologically. Only rats with bilateral SNR canulae placements were used for statistical evaluation. Results: Muscimol infusions in the SNR of P15 male rats treated with flutamide at P0-P2 had no effect on flurothyl seizure threshold compared to saline-infused controls. This is in contrast to previously published data in naïve male rats, in which SNR muscimol infusions have a proconvulsant effect on flurothyl clonic seizures. Conclusions: The results of the present study suggest that activation of androgen receptors during the early postnatal period participates in the development of proconvulsant SNR responses to muscimol. Understanding the mechanisms involved in sex-dependent sensitivity to seizures may lead to development of sex-specific treatment strategies. (Supported by NIH Grant NS 20253 and the Heffer Family Medical Foundation.) 1 Teresa Ravizza, 1 Barbara Gagliardi, 1 Francesco Noe', 2 Karin Boer, 1 Nicola Marchi, 2 Eleonora Aronica, and 1 Annamaria Vezzani ( 1 Neuroscience, Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological Research, Milano, Italy ; and 2 Neuropathology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands ) Rationale: Inflammatory mediators are rapidly synthesized by glia and neurons in the rodent brain during seizures. The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin(IL)1beta increases epileptic activity and contributes to neurodegeneration. The aim of this study was to explore the relative contribution of innate and adaptive immune mechanisms in perpetuating brain inflammation during epileptogenesis and in the chronic phase of spontaneous seizures (SS). Methods: The immunohistochemical pattern of microglia (CD-11b/c, HLA-DR), monocytes/macrophages (ED-1, CD68), granulocytes (HIS48), T-(CD3, CD4, CD8) and B-lymphocytes (CD45RA), NK (NKR-P1A) was assessed in rats, 4?36 h (acute phase) and 3?7 d (epileptogenesis) after the onset of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) and during SS, and in hippocampal specimens from medically intractable TLE with or without hippocampal sclerosis (HS). Results: Activated IL-1beta-expressing microglia and astrocytes were observed in rat forebrain within 4h after SE while abundant parenchymal macrophages were found after 18h. Both cell populations persisted until SS. Granulocytes appeared between 18h-3d only. Scarse B and T-lymphocytes and NK cells were found associated with microvessels, rarely in brain parenchyma. No changes occurred in pilocarpine+phenobarbital treated rats. In human TLE with HS, IL-1beta-expressing microglia and astrocytes, and clusters of perivascular monocytes/macrophages occurred in the hippocampus; T-lymphocytes were scarse and B cells were lacking. Conclusions: Activated glial cells expressing IL-1beta sustain the early phases of inflammation after SE and, toghether with macrophages, contribute to its persistence both in rat and human epileptic tissue. Granulocytes are transiently recruited, while B-, T-, NK-cells are scarse or absent. These findings, together with functional studies in experimental models, indicate that innate, but not adaptive, immunity significantly contributes to epileptogenesis in TLE. (Supported by Fondazione Mariani Onlus and Negri-Weizmann Programme (A.V.) and National Epilepsy Fund (E.A., K.B.)) 1,2 Roi Ann Wallis, and 1,2 Kimberly L. Panizzon ( 1 Neurology, VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, North Hills, CA ; and 2 Neurology, David Geffin UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Mitochondria play a central role in energy production and processes of cell death. These organelles also regulate Ca2+ homeostasis, and thereby modulate neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. More recently, mitochondrial dysfunction has been shown to occur in seizure foci from humans and experimental models of epilepsy. In addition, a number mitochondrial DNA mutations have been identified which lead to the inhibition of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Because neuronal injury during prolonged seizure activity may occur via modulation of mitochondrial channels and mitochondrial membrane depolarization, we hypothesized that the opening of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium (mitoKATP) channels would provide protection against CA1 depolarization-induced injury. Methods: Using paired rat hippocampal slices, we monitored the CA1 orthodromic and antidromic population spike (PS) amplitude during depolarization injury with and without chromakalim treatment. To induce depolarization injury, slices were exposed to 25 mM KCl for 8 min. Treatment with chromakalim was begun 30 minutes prior to KCl exposure and continued for the first 15 min. of recovery. Results: Chromakalim, an opener of the mitoKATP channel, provided robust neuroprotection of CA1 PS amplitude in hippocampal slices subjected to depolarization-induced injury. Slices exposed to 25 mM KCl demonstrated rapid loss of evoked response with a mean CA1 orthodromic and antidromic recovery of only 11% 3 and 13% 2, respectively. Treatment with chromakalim (300 uM) provided significant protection against this depolarization injury with CA1 orthodromic and antidromic PS amplitude recovering to 94% 3 and 95% 3. Treatment with 300 uM chromakalim during depolarization injury also produced significant recovery of mean excitatory post-synaptic potential slope (94%± 6) after depolarization when compared to paired, unmedicated slices which did not recover (0%± 0). Mean fiber volley responses were slightly resistant to depolarization injury with a mean recovery of 32%± 2 in paired, unmedicated slices. In contrast, treatment with chromakalim showed full recovery with a mean of 100%± 0. Conclusions: These studies demonstrate that chromakalim, a mitoKATP channel opener, provides neuroprotection against CA1 depolarization injury. In addition, these data suggest that the use of agents that modulate the mitoKATP channel may provide a useful strategy in the prevention of brain injury during status epilepticus. (Supported by VA Research Service.) 1 H. Jurgen Wenzel, 1 Kimberley D. Katleba, 1 Mareike E. Wenzel, 2 James S. Trimmer, and 1 Philip A. Schwartzkroin ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA ; and 2 Pharmacology, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA ) Rationale: Gene therapy offers an alternative strategy for treating some CNS disorders, but has been relatively unexplored as a therapy for epilepsy. As background for a gene therapy approach, it is important to gain some understanding about the details of expression for those genes exogenously introduced into the brain. Toward this end, we have begun to characterize the efficiency, cell type specificity, and subcellular localization of Kv potassium channel subunits introduced into neurons in vitro. These studies will provide essential background for testing gene therapy approaches in intact preparations. Methods: Organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSC) and dissociated primary neuronal cell cultures were prepared from wildtype mice and Kv1.1 knock-out mice (lacking the Kv1.1α subunit). Cultures were maintained for seven days in vitro, and then infected via an adenoviral vector or an HSV1 vector containing voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channel subunit genes (e.g., Kv1.1, Kv?2, Kv1.4, Kv2.1). Cultures were fixed at 1?3 weeks post-infection, and subsequently processed for immunofluorescence and electron microscopic observation. Immuno-reacted cultures were analyzed for cell-type specific expression, subcellular distribution, and co-localization of Kv channel subunit expression. Results: In both primary dissociated cultures and OHSCs, adenoviral vectors successfully infected a variety of neuron types with Kv channel subunits. Exogenously-expressed subunits were observed in vitro at several days post-injection. Adenoviral gene transfer appeared to target larger populations of neurons than the HSV1 vector. Subcellular localization of exogenous subunits did not always reproduce the patterns seen for endogenous subunits. For example, endogenous Kv1.1 and Kv1.4 subunits are expressed only in the axons and terminals of hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells; however, these subunits appeared primarily in cell somata when expressed via viral infection. In the relatively complex and well-organized organotypic cultures, injections of adenoviral vectors resulted in infection of neurons primarily around the site of the injection. In these OHSCs, pyramidal cells, granule cells, mossy cells, and interneurons expressed the exogenous gene product. Conclusions: Viral vector-mediated infection with genes for Kv channel subunits resulted in successful in vitro infection of limited neuronal populations. Expression patterns of exogenous Kv subunits did not always mimick the subcellular localization patterns seen in vivo. Further studies are needed to optimize infection efficiency and to reproduce appropriate localization of expression for specific channel subunits. (Supported by American Epilepsy Society Research Initiative Award.) 1 Philip Williams, 1 Andrew White, 1 Kevin Staley, and 2 Edward Dudek ( 1 Neurology and Pediatrics, University of Colorado, Denver, Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ; and 2 Physiology, School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ) Rationale: The latent period is usually considered to be a seizure-fee interval between an epileptogenic injury and the development of chronic seizures. If the chronic seizures occur at a stable frequency, then post-injury seizure probability can be considered a step function. We hypothesize 1) post-injury seizure probability is a continuous function and that at some point the seizure frequency goes through an exponential growth phase, and 2) that seizures tend to occur in clusters throughout the period of continuously increasing seizure frequency. Methods: We obtained nearly continuous electroencephalographic recordings using radiotelemetry in adult rats for 100 days after kainate-induced status epilepticus (n = 9). Results: In all 9 kainate-treated rats the seizures continuously increased with time after a mean latent period of 8 days, and all rats experienced an exponential increase in the seizure frequency at variable times after the latent period. A frequency histogram of the inter-seizure intervals throughout the period of seizure progression shows a distinct peak of intervals occurring at very short times. An analysis of the inter-seizure interval distribution compared to both a Poisson distribution and matched randomly generated intervals shows that the inter-seizure interval distribution is significantly different from a Poisson and random distribution. Conclusions: Seizure frequency continuously increases as a function of time after injury, suggesting that progressive molecular and cellular changes underlying seizure generation (e.g., axon sprouting and increased recurrent excitation) are steadily increasing with time after the injury. The exponential increase in seizure probability may reflect nonlinearities in the network response to steady increases in sprouting (see abstract by Swiercz et al.). These data also indicate that spontaneous seizures tend to occur in clusters throughout the period of increasing seizure frequency. (Supported by NIH.) 1 Nese Dericioglu, and 2 Anne Williamson ( 1 Institute of Neurological Sciences, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Med., New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Epileptic tissue is characterized by a number of metabolic alterations. We have been investigating the effects of altered metabolism on GABAergic neurotransmission; here we have examined the physiological effects of blocking GABA synthesis using slices from both control and epileptic rats. We have used 3-mercaptoproprionic acid (3-MPA) a selective glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) inhibitor for these studies. Our primary hypothesis is that alterations in excitability will only be seen under activated conditions as GABA stores will need to be depleted. Methods: Adult male rats were used for these studies. We used the systemic kainic acid (KA) model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Hippocampal slices were prepared and maintained using standard methods. Field potential recordings were obtained from the CA1 region. Stimuli were delivered to stratum radiatum at an intensity twice that needed to evoke a 1 mV population spike. 3-MPA was washed on and recordings were made in different slices. The effect of repetitive stimulation was determined by giving 10 Hz, 10 sec trains and monitoring both evoked and spontaneous activity. Results: In control animals, 3-MPA was not associated with significant hyperexcitability in the absence of afferent input even after several hours exposure. However, following a series of stimulus trains there was a significant enhancement of the duration of the evoked response and the development of short bursts of population spikes. We assayed the role of neuronal GABA transport by blocking GABA uptake with NO-711. There was a further prolongation of the evoked response in NO-711 and 3- MPA demonstrating that neuronal transport can contribute to synaptic inhibition. However, we were unable to elicit spontaneous activity under either recording condition. We found that raising excitability slightly by bath applying 5 mM K+ ACSF, was associated with the development of interical-like activity in the presence of 3-MPA in all slices studied, however. These events became prolonged seizure-like events following repetitive stimulation. In KA-treated rats there was a significantly greater effect of 3-MPA on the duration of the evoked responses compared to controls. In addition, intracellular recordings demonstrated the development of spontaneous activity, unlike control animals. Conclusions: These data demonstrate that blocking GABA synthesis does not significantly alter neuronal circuit excitability in the absence of robust afferent input and/or a global elevation in tissue excitability. Thus, neurons appear to have plentiful reserves of GABA under baseline conditions in vitro. In epileptic animals, however, there appears to be a reduced inhibitory reserve under conditions when GABA synthesis is reduced. However, this may reflect the higher baseline levels of activity. (Supported by NIH NS045792 to AW and a Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey Fellowship to ND.) 1 Amy Willingham, 1 Ashish Tokhi, 1 Ryan Jones, and 1 Peter R. Patrylo ( 1 Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, Carbondale, IL ) Rationale: The elderly have an enhanced incidence and prevalence of seizure disorders with up to 50% of cases having no identifiable antecedent. This has lead to the hypothesis that aging of the central nervous system (CNS) itself may be epileptogenic. To begin to assess this hypothesis, our laboratory compared the susceptibility of adult and aged rats to kainate-induced seizures and status epilepticus. This study revealed that aged rats have a greater frequency of wet-dog shakes and shorter latencies to onset for all classes of seizures and status epilepticus during systemic kainate-treatment. This experiment did not, however, distinguish whether this aging-related change is due to altered pharmacokinetics, blood brain barrier, and/or pharmacodynamics. Consequently, in this study the threshold for kainate induced seizures was examined in vitro. Methods: Hippocampal slices from adult (4?8 mo.) and aged (22?26 mo.) Fischer 344 rats were examined using field potential recordings from CA3 to assess activity evoked with single or paired orthodromic stimuli. The threshold for kainate-induced epileptiform activity was examined by increasing the kainate concentration (12.5, 25, 50, and 100 nM) while monitoring evoked and spontaneous activity. Results: In aCSF, no difference in the maximal amplitude of the evoked response was noted in aged (n = 24; 6.6 ± 0.6 mV) vs. adult slices (n = 25; 6 ± 0.5 mV; p > 0.4; ANOVA). Evoked activity usually entailed a population spike followed by a positive field potential shift that often had a secondary small amplitude spike. In two of the aged slices, but none of those from adults, stimulating at a supra maximal intensity elicited an epileptiform burst. When paired stimuli were delivered using a 50 ms interpulse interval, 92% of aged slices (n = 13) and 31% of adult slices (n = 16) showed facilitation of the second spike (p < 0.001; chi-square). To assess the threshold for kainate-induced epileptiform activity, 10 slices from adult and 10 slices from aged rats were examined. In total, 80% of adult and 90% of aged slices showed epileptiform activity by the time the kainate concentration reached 100 nM. The kainate concentrations required for evoked (9.7 ± 2.8 nM vs. 21.9 ± 4.6 nM; p < 0.05; ANOVA) and spontaneous (20.3 ± 4.7 nM vs. 34.4 ± 4.6 nM; p < 0.05; ANOVA) epileptiform activity were significantly lower in slices from aged rodents, compared to adults. Conclusions: These data indicate that the aged CNS itself has an enhanced susceptibility to kainate-induced epileptiform activity that could contribute to the increase in wet-dog shakes and reduced latency to onset for class I/II seizures and status epilepticus in aged rodents during systemic kainate treatment. Further, if these pharmacodynamic changes also occur in the human CNS during aging, they could contribute to the increased incidence and prevalence of idiopathic seizure disorders. (Supported by the Epilepsy Foundation of America and NIA.) 6 L. James Willmore, 1 Yuto Ueda, 2,3 Hidekatsu Yokoyama, 4 Akira Nakajima, 5 Maiko Takaki, 1 Keiko Nagatomo, and 1 Taku Doi ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, University of Miyazaki, Miyazaki, Japan ; 2 National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Nagoya, Jordan ; 3 Institute for Life Support Technology, Yamagata, Japan ; 4 Section of Chemistry, Department of Medical Science, University of Miyazaki, Miyazaki, Japan ; 5 Department of 1st Physiology, University of Miyazaki, Miyazaki, Japan ; and 6 Departments of Neurology and Pharmacology and Physiology, Saint Louis University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO ) Rationale: Epileptogenesis is associated with collapse of glutamate regulation, alteration in redox state and generation of free radicals. However, measurement of reductants in brain tissue extracts is problematic because of intrinsic free radical scavenging. Using in vivo methods, we measured hippocampal antioxidant ability from the decay rate of i.p injection of nitroxide radical with 700 MHz Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) spectroscopy during amygdalar ferric chloride-induced chronic recurrent seizures in rats. Methods: We used Region-Selected Intensity Determination (RSID) methods for estimation of nitroxide decay ratio. Hippocampal antioxidant function was estimated based on the half-life of the EPR signal of the blood-brain barrier-permeable nitroxide radical. Rats underwent unilateral right amygdalar injection with aqueous ferric chloride. Recording from chronically implanted depth electrodes showed development of epileptiform discharges, followed by recurrent seizures arising from amygdalar regions with propagation into both hippocampi. EPR spectroscopy with RSID estimation was performed at 5 days, 15 days and 30 days after FeCl3 injection. Results: In bilateral dorsal hippocampal regions, in vivo antioxidant ability was significantly decreased at 5 days and 30 days in animals with chronic, recurrent seizures when compared to controls. Conclusions: We observed impairment of antioxidant function in the hippocampi of rats with epileptogenesis induced by amygdalar ferric chloride injection. Of interest, unilateral induction of a chronic seizure focus was associated with bilateral alterations both early after injection and late. We wonder if hippocampal collapse of glutamate regulation during epileptogenesis might be followed by consumption of endogenous antioxidants. (Supported by: Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research (C)(2)(16591146) from the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Culture, Japan (to Y.U.).) 1 Yannan Ouyang, 1 Xiao-Feng Yang, 1 Xiao Yan Hu, 1 Ebru Erbayat-Altay, 1 Linghui Zeng, 1 Jin-Moo Lee, and 1 Michael Wong ( 1 Neurology, Washington University, Saint Louis, MO ) Rationale: Seizures may injure the brain and contribute to neurological and cognitive deficits of epilepsy patients. Although it is well-established that seizures may cause neuronal death under some conditions, seizures may also induce more subtle ?non-lethal? pathophysiological changes in neuronal structure and function, including abnormalities in synaptic transmission. In particular, seizures have been shown to cause morphological changes in dendrites and dendritic spines, but the molecular mechanisms mediating these structural changes are poorly understood. Actin represents a major structural protein of dendrites and actin filaments (F-actin) can be depolymerized by the regulatory molecule, cofilin, leading to structural changes in dendrites. Thus, we examined changes in F-actin and cofilin in hippocampus due to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-induced seizure activity in vivo and in vitro. Methods: Seizures were induced with intrahippocampal injections of 4-AP in mice in vivo. Epileptiform activity was elicited by superfusion of 4-AP over hippocampal slices in vitro. The gross morphology of dendrites and the number of dendritic spines following one hour of seizure activity was assessed by confocal imaging of fixed hippocampal sections from mice with in vivo seizures or by time-lapse multiphoton imaging of living hippocampal slices during in vitro epileptiform activity. Changes in F-actin levels in hippocampus following seizures was assessed by the phalloidin-rhodamine immunolabeling technique. Total actin, total cofilin, and phosphorylated (inactive) cofilin (p-cofilin) were measured following seizures by Western blotting. Results: Following one hour of in vivo or in vitro seizure activity, there was no significant difference in the gross morphological properties of dendrites and number of dendritic spines in hippocampus. However, hippocampal seizures led to a significant decrease (30%) in F-actin levels, indicating a depolymerization of actin filaments. Correspondingly, seizure activity caused a significant decrease (64%) in p-cofilin, but no change in total cofilin levels, implying an increase in unphosporylated (active) cofilin, which should depolymerize F-actin. By comparison, elevated extracellular potassium (50 mM KCl) induced a rapid swelling and loss of spines in hippocampal slices and a strong decrease (93%) in p-cofilin. Conclusions: Seizures may induce activation of cofilin and depolymerization of F-actin. Although no gross changes in dendritic structure or spine number were observed with seizures over a short time period, these changes in actin dynamics with seizures could be related to dendritic spine loss over a longer time period, more subtle changes in spine morphology, or non-structural roles of actin in synaptic transmission. Additional studies are required to define the functional and clinical relevance of changes in actin polymerization in seizure-induced brain injury. (Supported by NIH K02 NS045583 (MW).) 1 Hong Xu, 1 Guo Yin, 1 Peter Jukkola, 1 Elena Kharlamov, 1 Kebin Zeng, and 1 Kevin M. Kelly ( 1 Department of Neurology, Allegheny General Hospital, Center for Neuroscience Research, Allegheny-Singer Research Institute, Pittsburgh, PA; and Drexel University College of Medicine Philadelphia, PA, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Acute ischemic infarction of the neocortex is typically followed by functional reorganization of cortical circuitry. In the periinfarction area, GABAergic-mediated inhibitory neurotransmission is impaired and neuronal activity is enhanced, changes that may predispose to epileptogenesis and poststroke epilepsy. We used the model of cortical photothrombosis and brain infarction to examine the changes of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory synaptic input to pyramidal neurons of layer II-III of ipsilateral sensorimotor cortex 1?2 mm lateral to the infarct 7?10 days after photothrombosis of 4-month-old Fischer 344 rats. Methods: Whole cell patch-clamp techniques were used to record postsynaptic currents (PSCs), and spontaneous and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs and mIPSCs) of pyramidal neurons of layer II-III of ipsilateral sensorimotor cortex 1?2 mm lateral to the infarct. Analysis was performed on PSCs and sIPSCs recorded from 46 pyramidal neurons (lesioned, n = 23; control, n = 23) and mIPSCs recorded from 33 of the 46 pyramidal neurons (lesioned, n = 18; control, n = 15). Results: In lesioned animals, PSC amplitude was unchanged compared with controls, whereas decreases were observed for sIPSC (?23% lower than that of control, 24.93 ± 2.23 pA in lesioned vs.32.54 ± 2.98 pA in controls) and mIPSC (?22% lower than that of control, 20.12 ± 1.27 pA in lesioned vs. 25.72 ± 2.50 pA in controls) amplitude. There was an increase in the 10?90% rise time of PSCs (?31% longer than that of control), sIPSCs (?36% longer than that of control) and mIPSCs (?29% longer than that of control) in lesioned animals, whereas decay time constant and charge transfer were not significantly different compared with controls. There was an increase in PSC frequency (?41% higher than that of control, 3.10 ± 0.28 Hz in lesioned vs. 2.17 ± 0.23 Hz in controls) in lesioned animals, whereas sIPSC (?21% higher) and mIPSC (?18% higher) frequency demonstrated only trends toward increases. Additionally, sIPSC and mIPSC conductance was decreased (23% and 21.7%, respectively). Conclusions: These findings indicate that cortical photothrombosis results in alterations of GABAergic inhibition of pyramidal neurons in close proximity to the infarct, which likely contribute to the increased excitatory tone of the area following ischemic infarction and may predispose it to the mechanisms of epileptogenesis. (Supported by R01 NS046015 to KMK.) 1 Xiao-Feng Yang, 1 Liu Lin Thio, 1 Steven M. Rothman, 1 Aryan E. Weisenfeld, and 1 Kelvin A. Yamada ( 1 Neurology, Washington University, Saint Louis, MO ) Rationale: Previous studies have demonstrated that leptin inhibits epileptiform-like activity in rat hippocampal neurons. Therefore, we examined whether leptin acts as an anticonvulsant in an in vivo rat model of focal neocortical seizures. Methods: Focal neocortical seizures were induced by the microinjection of 1 ?L artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing 12.5 mM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 12.5 nanomoles) into the motor cortex of halothane-anesthetized, 4?6 week old male Sprague-Dawley rats. Leptin-treated rats were co-injected with 39 ?M leptin (39 picomoles). A screw electrode was placed symmetrically over each hemisphere and used to record the electroencephalogram (EEG) in a referential montage. We recorded EEG prior to the injection of 4-AP and continued recording for one-hour after the injection. The number of seizures, the average seizure duration, and the cumulative seizure duration during the one hour recording period after 4-AP injection were determined by analyzing the EEG using commercial software (pClamp 9, Axon Instruments). Results: Leptin reduced the number of seizures from 33.8 ± 15.8 seizures/hour to 10.2 ± 3.3 seizures/hour (n = 5 rats/each group, p = 0.012). Leptin decreased the average seizure duration from 34.3 ± 4.9 seconds to 14.5 ± 6.0 seconds (p < 0.001). It also decreased the cumulative seizure duration from 1141 ± 558 seconds to 156 ± 104 seconds (p < 0.01). Conclusions: These results show that leptin has anticonvulsant effects in the in vivo 4-AP model of severe focal neocortical seizures. Thus, leptin and other leptin receptor agonists may be clinically useful anticonvulsants. (Supported by JDRF 1?2004?594 and NIH NS 32636 (KAY).) 1 Audrey S. Yee, 2 Lihong Diao, and 1,2 Kevin J. Staley ( 1 Pediatrics, University of Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ; and 2 Neurology, University of Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ) Rationale: The spontaneously active in-vitro CA3 slice preparation is an important model of interictal spikes. The temporal pattern of interictal spikes reflects seizure probability in experimental epilepsy. We investigated determinants of CA3 burst timing to understand mechanisms of interictal timing. In numerous paradigms used to initiate bursts, we noted a significant increase in the interburst interval in the 1st hour following burst onset. The mechanisms for this finding are unclear and we investigate them here. Methods: We used rat hippocampal slices (male Sprague-Dawley 4?8 weeks, 400 uM sections prepared with a tissue chopper, slices cut and stored in ACSF) and extracellular field recordings to record bursting from the CA3 pyramidal cell layer. This bursting was induced in modified ACSF (3.3 K+, 0.9 Mg2+, 1.5 Ca2+) by addition of: (1) Pictrotoxin (PTX) 100 uM + CGP 1 uM (2) Bicuculline Methiodine (BMI) 50 uM + CGP or (3) Gabazine (GBZ) 10 uM + CGP to block GABAA and GABAB receptors. In other experiments, slices were co-treated with a glutamate precursor, glutamine (10 uM) or pretreated with the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, d-APV 100 uM, prior to GABAA and GABAB blockade. Changes in burst frequency (measured as interburst interval) and burst length were examined. Results: 1. Synchronized network activity can occur in the presence of postsynaptic inhibition. 2. Burst frequency increased during the first hour following burst initiation. 3. The initial burst frequency increase was present regardless of the type of GABAA receptor blockade (BMI, PTX, and GBZ). 4. This initial burst frequency increase occurred in the presence of glutamine replenishment. 5. This initial burst frequency increase occurs in the presence of NMDAR blockade, suggesting that burst-related synaptic plasticity does not explain the initial increase in burst frequency. 6. When the degree of post-synaptic inhibition was increased (see concentration- response curve), initial burst frequency increase was diminished. Conclusions: These results suggest that inhomogeneous GABAA receptor function is reflected in altered burst frequency in the 1st hour after burst induction. Similar inhomogeneities may be present in-vivo early in epileptogenesis. (Supported by NINDS.) 1 Nicole A. Young, 1 Corey Flynn, 1 Lana J. Ozen, and 1 G. Campbell Teskey ( 1 Psychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Functional alterations in neural networks are thought to underlie both susceptibility to seizures and interictal behaviours. Our laboratory has previously shown that electrical kindling of the rat neocortex, amygdala or hippocampus results in a dramatic expansion of motor maps. The aim of the current study was to determine if those observations extend to another model of epilepsy. In this study we employed the pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus model that results in extended seizure activity and, after a maturation interval, can ultimately lead to spontaneous seizures. Methods: Young adult male rats were injected with atropine methyl-nitrate (10.0 mg/kg) 30 minutes prior to convulsant treatment in order to block peripheral affects. Pilocarpine (320.0 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally at a dose that elicited seizures in all rats with approximately 50% expressing status epilepticus. Control rats received physiological saline. All rats were videotaped for 2 hours following convulsant administration or control. Seizure behaviours were quantified by duration and type. Diazepam (10.0 mg/kg) was administered to all rats 1.5 hours following convulsant or control injections to terminate seizure activity and promote survival. Rats had high-resolution intracortical microstimulation movement representations derived using standard methodologies at either 48 hours, 1 week, 2 weeks or 3 weeks following treatment. Results: Our preliminary results show that rats have motor map expansion following pilocarpine treatment, regardless of whether status epilepticus occurred or not. Conclusions: These results demonstrate that a single episode of seizure activity induced by a convulsant agent can alter the functional expression of motor maps. (Supported by Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada.) 1 Hai Xia Zhang, and 1,2 Liu Lin Thio ( 1 Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; and 2 Pediatric Neurology, St. Louis Children's Hospital, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: Although Zn2+ is a potent and efficacious biphasic modulator of α2-containing strychnine sensitive glycine receptors (GlyRs), the physiological role of this modulation is unknown. Therefore, we examined whether potentiating Zn2+ concentrations enhance GlyR mediated inhibition of neuronal bursting induced by a Mg2+ free extracellular solution. Methods: Current clamp recordings from cultured embryonic mouse hippocampal neurons were obtained using the whole-cell patch clamp technique. Bursts consisting of 2?10 second depolarizing envelopes with superimposed action potentials were induced by omitting extracellular Mg2+ (?0? mM Mg2+). The basal Zn2+ concentration in our extracellular solution was 0.8 ?M. A nominally Zn2+ free extracellular solution (?0??M Zn2+) was obtained by adding 10 mM tricine, a Zn2+ chelator. Ten ?M D-serine was added to the extracellular solution to saturate the NMDA receptor glycine binding site. Statistical comparisons were made by ANOVA. Results: In an extracellular solution containing 1 mM Mg2++?0??M or 0.8 ?M Zn2+, no bursts occurred and action potentials occurred at 0.2 ± 0.1 Hz (S.E). In ?0? mM Mg2++ 0.8 ?M Zn2+, 11 ± 0.8 bursts occurred per minute, and the action potential frequency was 3.5 ± 0.4 Hz (Figure). Omitting Mg2+ and Zn2+ from the extracellular solution did not change burst or action potential frequency, which were 12 ± 0.8 per minute and 2.7 ± 0.4 Hz, respectively. In ?0??M Mg2++ 0.8 ?M Zn2+, 20 ?M glycine decreased burst frequency from 11 ± 1.3 per minute to 1.4 ± 0.6 per minute (p < 0.05) and decreased action potential frequency from 2.9 ± 0.8 Hz to 0.3 ± 0.1 Hz (p < 0.05) (Figure, top panel). In ?0? Mg2++?0??M Zn2+, 20 ?M glycine decreased burst frequency from 13 ± 0.8 per minute to 7.8 ± 0.8 per minute (p < 0.05) and decreased action potential frequency from 2.6 ± 0.5 Hz to 1.9 ± 0.5 Hz (p < 0.05) (Figure, bottom panel). Although baseline burst and action potential frequency in 0.8 ?M and ?0??M Zn2+ did not differ, 20 ?M glycine decreased burst and action potential frequency in 0.8 ?M Zn2+ more than in ?0??M Zn2+ (p < 0.05). Similar results were obtained with 200 ?M taurine. These inhibitory effects of glycine and taurine were blocked by 1 ?M strychnine. Conclusions: These results indicate that potentiating Zn2+ concentrations enhance GlyR mediated depression of neuronal hyperexcitability in pathological conditions. Thus, designing drugs that modulate GlyRs directly or via Zn2+ may lead to novel anticonvulsants. [figure 1] (Supported by NIH and Washington University Department of Neurology.) 1 Mingrui Zhao, 1 Hongtao Ma, 1 Challon Perry, 1 Minah Suh, and 1 Theodore H. Schwartz ( 1 Neurological Surgery, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY ) Rationale: Epileptic events elicit an increase in neuronal metabolism and an increase in cerebral blood flow (CBF), bringing oxygenated hemoglobin to the activated neurons. Whether CBF and oxygenation are adequate to meet metabolic demand in the focus and surround is unknown. Methods: We induced acute focal seizures in the rat neocortex by injection of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 15 mM, 0.5 ?l). The local field potential was recorded to identify the ictal discharge. The partial pressure of tissue oxygen (pO2) and CBF were measured with two Clark-style polarographic oxygen microelectrodes and two probes of laser Doppler flowmetry located in the focus and surround. Optical spectroscopic imaging was used to measure deoxyhemoglobin (Hbr), oxyhemoglobin (HbO2) and total hemoglobin (Hbt). Results: The duration of ictal discharge ranged from 50 to 200 sec (n = 15 rats). CBF in the focus increased 150.0 ± 13.7% (p < 0.05, n = 4 rats) but decreased in the surround by 90.9 ± 2.5% (p < 0.03, n = 4 rats). Tissue pO2 decreased by 64.3 ± 7.8% (p < 0.05, n = 5 rats) in the focus during the ictal discharge and then increased at the termination of ictal event. In the surround tissue pO2 increased by 120.5 ± 5.1% (p < 0.05, n = 5 rats). The optical spectroscopic analysis showed the spatial extent of the perfusion and oxymetric responses. Conclusions: These results demonstrated a prolonged epileptic dip in both tissue and hemoglobin oxygenation during ictal events in spite of a dramatic increase in CBF in the region of focus. In the surround, pO2 increased in spite of a decrease in CBF, consistent with a decrease in neuronal activity and metabolism. (Supported by NIH NS043799?04 and NS049482?01].) 1 Shuangping Zhao, 1 Steve S. Shinmei, 1 Ernesto R. Aviles Jr., and 1,2,3 Denson G. Fujikawa ( 1 Neurology, VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, North Hills, CA ; 2 Neurology, UCLA Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ; and 3 Brain Research Institute, UCLA Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Seizure-induced neuronal death is morphologically necrotic and caspase-independent, despite internucleosomal DNA cleavage (DNA laddering), a programmed process. We studied whether seizure-induced neuronal necrosis involves translocation of mitochondrial apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and endonuclease G (endoG) to the nucleus and cytochrome c (cyt c) to the cytoplasm, where AIF and endoG could be involved in large-scale (50 kb) and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation respectively. In caspase-independent, excitotoxic neuronal death, cyt c translocation from mitochondria to cytoplasm may occur because of non-specific outer membrane rupture from mitochondrial swelling. Methods: Adult Wistar rats were subjected to 3-h lithium-pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (LPCSE), after which seizures were stopped with diazepam and phenobarbital. Six and 24 h later rats underwent in situ transcardiac perfusion-fixation of their brains, with subsequent removal and processing for H  and 2 Departments of Neurosurgery, Engineering Science and Mechanics, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA ) Rationale: We recently described a novel pattern of interleaving excitatory-inhibitory (EI) activity (Ziburkus et al., J Neurophys., 2006) and calculated dynamic EI conductances during spontaneous in vitro seizures. The goal of the present study is to describe pharmacological effects, including gap junction blockade on inhibitory and excitatory conductances and EI network synchrony. Methods: Simultaneous single and dual voltage clamp whole-cell and extracellular recordings were performed in the CA1 region of rat transverse hippocampal slice preparations (n = P16-P30). To induce seizures, slices were bathed in 100?200 ?M 4-Aminopyridine in decreased magnesium (0.6 mM). Intracellular solution contained blockers for voltage-gated conductances. Excitatory conductances were recorded at ?80 to ?50 mV and inhibitory at 0 to +40 mV. Dynamic reversal potentials for interictal bursts and seizures were calculated using varying holding potential (?80 mV to +40 mV). Post-hoc, the cells were stained and identified using fluorescence conjugated antibody cocktails (neurobiotin, somatostatin, parvalbumin, and mGLUR1). Following immunocytochemical testing, the sections were processed for peroxidase-based neurobiotin visualization used for digital morphological reconstructions of the recorded cells. Results: We performed measurements of dynamic synaptic inhibitory (Gi) and excitatory (Ge) conductances in E (n = 12) and I (n = 12) cells during seizures. During the initiation of the ictal events, inhibitory conductances were even or greater to the excitatory conductances. Inhibitory conductances peaked 1?2 seconds before the ictal discharge of pyramidal cells. During the persistent stage of the ictal event, Gi transiently diminished, and then increased with Ge during the post-ictal bursting. Bursts and ictal events were observed in the presence of any one of NMDA (APV), AMPA (CNQX), or GABAa (picrotoxin or bicuculline) receptor blockers. A cocktail of excitatory blockers was necessary to completely abolish bursting and ictal events. Gap junction blockers (mefloquine, n = 14 and carbenoxolone, n = 12) had profound effects on E and I network synchronization, inhibitory currents, and seizure blockade. We measured effects of the individual blockers on burst dynamics and synchronization. Mefloquine preferentially affected inhibitory network synchronization (n = 6), and both carbenoxolone and mefloquine had as strong of an effect on seizures as a mixture of excitatory conductance blockers. Conclusions: We report mechanisms of the first comparative interneuron-principal cell conductance study in a spontaneous in vitro seizure model. Gap junction blockers exhibit a potent effect on neuronal network synchronization and block 4-AP seizures. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation Fellowship (JZ) and NIH grants: K02MH01493, and RO1MH50006.) 1 Tiina Alapirtti, 1 Janne Hulkkonen, 1 Riikka Mäkinen, and 1 Jukka Peltola ( 1 Department of Neurology and Rehabilitation, Tampere Univercity Hospital, Tampere, Finland; Department of Clinical Physiology, Tampere Univercity Hospital, Tampere, Finland; Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Tampere Univercity Hospital, Tampere, Finland; and Department of Neurology and Rehabilitation, Tampere Univercity Hospital, Tampere, Finland ) Rationale: Experimental and clinical studies have shown that prolonged seizures result in increased cytokine production in the central nervous system. However, the effect of seizure type on cytokine production is not well established. The purpose of this study is to examine the concentrations of two key cytokines in patients with temporal and extratemporal epilepsy undergoing a video-EEG study. Methods: Here we determined the levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA) in serum from 20 patients before and after seizure during continuous video-EEG monitoring in Tampere University Hospital. In addition to baseline the blood samples were taken 3, 6, 12 and 24 hours after the seizure. The definition of the seizure focus and classification of epilepsy was based on concordant findings in this investigation, and on MRI examination. Patients were divided into two groups: temporal lobe epilepsy (n = 11), and extratemporal epilepsy (n = 9). Results: In the patients with seizures originating from temporal (p < 0.01) and extratemporal lobes (p < 0.05) there was a statistically significant increase in the levels of IL-6 production after the seizure. Moreover, the concentrations of IL-6 were significantly higher in temporal lobe group compared with extratemporal group (p = 0,016). In the patients with temporal seizures there was a significant decrease in the levels of IL-1RA production (p < 0.05) but not in the patients with extratemporal seizures. Conclusions: The present study demonstrates that single seizures in chronic epilepsy are followed by activation of cytokine network. The production of IL-1RA and IL-6 are influenced by the origin of the seizures from either temporal or extratemporal lobes. Experimental studies have demonstrated that IL-1RA may act as an anticonvulsant and neuroprotectant, whereas IL-6 seems to be proconvulsant and neurotoxic. Differential activation of these key cytokines may modify central nervous system reactions to seizures. 1 Mohammed Ali Alhakami, 1 Neelan Pillay, and 1 Sam Wiebe ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: The coexistence of localization related and generalized epilepsy is rare (<1%). It is not uncommon for focal and generalized epileptiform discharges (Eds) to coexist in patients with localization related epilepsy. However it is not clear how often such discharges coexist when strict criteria are used to define generalized discharges, and whether the latter entail a poorer seizure outcome following surgery. We studied the characteristics of a cohort of patients with this pattern of EEG findings and describe an index case with localization related and generalized epilepsy. Methods: Eighteen patients fulfilled our criteria, which required the coexistence of interictal focal and truly generalized EDs in the same or in different EEGs. Generalized EDs with shifting focal fragments, and focal discharges with secondary bilateral synchrony were excluded. We reviewed seizure semiology, history of febrile seizures, family history of epilepsy, AEDs used, type of investigations, whether epilepsy surgery was done and seizures outcomes. Results: Eleven patients (61%) were female. Eight were < 10 years old. Generalized EDs consisted of ≥3Hz spike-wave and polyspike-wave. Focal spikes had a variety of distributions. All but two patients had video EEG monitoring. Five patients (27.7%) had a family history of epilepsy, and the neurological examination was abnormal in two patients (11%). Ten patients (55.5%) had normal MRI. Five patients had epilepsy surgery, two of whom had mesial temporal sclerosis(MTS). One patient with left temporal EDs and MTS, underwent a conventional temporal lobe resection. Postoperatively, the patient developed seizures of generalized semiology, confirmed with video EEG. Seizure control was poor in the majority of our patients. Conclusions: The coexistence of focal and strictly defined generalized EDs may be a marker of poor seizure control. In patients with localization related epilepsy, this EEG pattern may indicate poor postoperative seizure outcomes. Rarely, failed epilepsy surgery may indicate the emergence or presence of generalized epilepsy. 1 Gail D. Anderson, 2 Nancy R. Temkin, 3 Ramon Diaz-Arrostia, 2 Carol Farhrenbruch, 4 Michael Edenfield, 5John W. Miller, and 4 S.M. Hossein Sadrzadeh ( 1 Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 3 Neurology, University of Texas SW Med. School, Dallas, TX ; and 4 Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Post-traumatic seizures (PTS) are a complication of head trauma. Hemorrhagic injury to the cortex has an increased risk of PTS, possibly due to reaction of free hemoglobin (Hb) with lipid rich environment. Hb and iron can enhance oxidative stress. The brain is susceptible to oxidative damage due to is high oxygen consumption, high lipid content and low antioxidant activity. Haptoglobin (Hp) is a plasma glycoprotein that removes free Hb and prevents Hb-induced damage. Hp has three different phenotypes, HP-1-, Hp 2?1 and Hp 2?2. Hp 1?1 is biologically the most and Hp 2?2 is the least active in Hb binding, antioxidant activity. Polymorphisms of apoliprotein E (APOE) plays an important role in neuropathological finding in patients with head injuries. Of the three common alleles, e2, e3 and e4, the presence of e4 has been shown to have a less favorable outcome. We hypothesized that patients who develop PTS have a 1)lower concentration of haptoglobin and/or a higher frequency of low capacity haptoglobin phenotype; 2)higher oxidant stress as reflected in increased 8-isoprostane (8-isoP), a lower total antioxidant capacity (TAOC); 3)higher frequency of APOE e4 allele. Methods: Patients were recruited from our valproate prophylaxis study (Temkin et al. J Neurosurg 1999;91:593?600). Of the 51 who had developed PTS, 25 cases and 26 controls, matched for age, sex, PTS risk factor and treatment group. Baseline information on seizure history, current alcohol use and medications, and 50 ml of blood were obtained. Plasma/serum were used for the biochemical analysis and blood cells for genetic analysis. Statistical analysis was performed using unpaired t-test for the biochemical markers and Chi-square analysis for the genotyping. Results: Haptoglobin Phenotype and APOE Genotype Hp 1?1 Hp 2?1 Hp 2?2 ?2,3 or ?3,3 ?2,4 or ?3,4 or ?4,4 PTS Cases 5 (20.8%) 11 (45.8%) 8 (33.3%) 18 (72.0%) 7 (28.0%) Controls 6 (23.1%) 10 (38.5%) 10 (38.5%) 18 (69.2%) 8 (30.8%) Unable to determine Hp for 1 PTS case PTS Cases vs.Controls 8-IsoP: 246 ± 170 pg/ml vs 172 ± 152 pg/ml (p = 0.1) TAOC: 1.2 ± 0.1 mM vs 1.1 ± 0.1 mM (p = 0.38) Hp: 122 ± 39 mg/dl vs 142 ± 69 mg/dl (p = 0.22) Ferritin 96 ± 87 ?g/ml vs 154 ± 131 ?g/ml (p = 0.069). Conclusions: We found no difference in Hp concentration or phenotype, oxidative activity or capacity, or APOE genotype in the head trauma patients who developed PTS. There was a trend towards an increased oxidative stress and decreased ferritin concentrations. In contrast to microhemorrhagic gradual brain injury that may be mediated by free Hb/iron, direct physical damage in this case may be the most contributing factor in developing PTS. (Supported by Research Initiative Award from the American Epilepsy Society.) 1 David J. Anschel, 1 Brian Pike, 2 Sylvia Dolce, and 3 Armin Scwartzman ( 1 Neurology, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, NY ; 2 Art for Health Program, Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford, CA ; and 3 Statistics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA ) Rationale: Language shapes all aspects of human interaction. The assessment of written language may provide a unique insight into the functioning of the human mind and brain. Methods: 60 subjects were recruited from a Comprehensive Epilepsy Center. The group consisted of 39 females and 21 males. Subjects were placed into the following four categories: non-epileptic events (NEE); seizures (Sz); partial seizures (PartSz); complex partial seizures with temporal focus (CPS-TF). Each subject was given a simple writing task to complete. The essays were scored using four unique scales: Subject ? whether the writing concentrated upon physical or emotional aspects of the seizures. Focus ? how much of the essay was on task. Ratio ? a measure of detail. Word ? total word count. Results: Patients with nonepileptic events (NEE) tended to write essays containing both physical and emotional components (p = 0.058), while those with partial seizures (PartSz) did not (p = 0.006). Essays concentrating upon emotional aspects, increased the likelihood of a partial seizure diagnosis being made (p = 0.059). The variance of Ratio was higher in the non-NEE group than in the NEE group (p = 0.0003), while for the PartSz group, the variance of Ratio was higher than in the non-PartSz group (p = 0.000008). Conclusions: The results of the present study have revealed a relationship between the differences of writing content in those with NEE and those with seizures, especially partial onset seizures. The findings with regard to the variable ?Subject? not only give insight into the mind of these patients, but provide the preliminary basis for the development of a diagnostic tool utilizing a simple writing task. With further refinement and validation such a task may one day become an aid to replacing costly video-EEG studies in select patients. The findings with respect to ?Ratio? may also eventually play a role in this later purpose, but yield a different sort of information. The significant difference in variance between groups may be due to the greater degree of structural brain damage likely to be found in patients with partial seizures compared to those with primarily generalized epilepsy or NEE. (Supported by Office of Community and Patient Relations and the Department of Neurology at Stanford University Medical Center and through the generous and kind assistance of Ms. Jeanne Kennedy. Armin Schwartzman was supported by a William R. and Sara Hart Kimball Stanford Graduate Fellowship.) 1 Nabil J. Azar, 1 Tania F. Tayah, and 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: The distinction between epileptic and non-epileptic seizures can be very challenging in the absence of EEG-video monitoring with recorded seizures. Discriminating ictal features described in the literature often cannot be used in the clinic while obtaining the history. Overwhelmed observers often miss ictal details. Postictal signs could prove easier to identify. We observed that the postictal breathing after non-epileptic seizures with generalized motor activity is considerably different from the postictal breathing pattern of generalized tonic-clonic seizures. We evaluated this feature in consecutive patients admitted for EEG-video monitoring. Methods: We reviewed seizures recorded with video-EEG in consecutive adult patients with epilepsy and patients with non-epileptic psychogenic seizures. We reviewed 22 generalized tonic-clonic seizures in 15 patients with epilepsy and 22 convulsive non-epileptic seizures in 15 patients with pure psychogenic seizures. We analyzed the altered postictal breathing pattern for rate, depth, regularity, loudness, and duration. We used the Fisher exact test to compare groups for categorical variables and the student t-test to compare them for continuous variables. Results: The breathing after generalized tonic-clonic seizures was deep with prolonged inspiratory and expiratory phases, regular, and usually loud (except for two short seizures). The breathing after convulsive non-epileptic seizures was characterized by increased respiratory rate or hyperpnea with short inspiratory and expiratory phases, as can be noted after exercise. The breathing was often irregular, with brief pauses. The altered breathing lasted longer after epileptic tonic-clonic seizures. The two groups differed significantly in loudness of postictal respiration, postictal snoring (only with epileptic seizures), respiratory rate (mean of 30/min for the epileptic group and 44/min for the psychogenic group) and duration of altered breathing (mean of 6 min for the epileptic group and 1.6 min for the psychogenic group) (p < 0.00001 for all features). Conclusions: The postictal breathing pattern can help differentiate generalized tonic-clonic seizures from non-epileptic psychogenic seizures and may be helpful to the practitioner obtaining a seizure history in the clinic setting, or witnessing a seizure. 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 David Araújo Jr., 1 Veriano Alexandre Jr., 1 Lauro Wichert-Ana, 1 Vera C. Terra-Bustamante, 1 Ana Paula P. Martins, 1 Antonio C. Dos Santos, 1 Roger Walz, 1 Jo?o A. Assirati Jr., 1 Carlos G. Carlotti Jr., 1 Osvaldo M. Takayanagui, and 1 Américo C. Sakamoto ( 1 CIREP-Department of Neurology, Psychiatry, and Medical Psychology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Observations in our population indicate that in endemic areas to neurocysticercosis (NCC), NCC is more common in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy associated with hippocampal sclerosis (MTLE-HS) than in other forms of focal medically intractable epilepsy, suggesting a possible association between these two diseases. We designed this study in order to further explore this association. Methods: Retrospective cohort of 191 patients with MTLE-HS from Brazil. We evaluated demographic, clinical, and neuroimaging findings of patients with MTLE-HS plus NCC and compared them with those of patients with MTLE-HS without NCC. The magnitude of differences was measured by the O.R. (95% C.I.). Adjusted O.R. was estimated by logistic regression. Logistic regression was also used to predicting NCC in MTLE-HS patients. Results: We observed chronic NCC radiological findings in 68 (35.6%) MTLE-HS patients. In these patients, NCC was significantly more common in women (45 patients 45.9%) than in men (23 patients, 24.7%), (adjusted O.R. = 3.33; 95% C.I. = 1.67?6.62 p < 0.001), in patients with no history of an initial precipitating injury (IPI) before 5 years-old, (adjusted O.R. = 3.04; 1.38?6.72; p < 0.01), and in patients presenting bilateral temporal interictal spikes during pre-surgical video-EEG, (adjusted O.R. = 2.36; 95% C.I. = 1.19?4.66; p < 0.02). In endemic areas similar to ours, the possibility of finding NCC in refractory MTLE-HS (Prob(NCC) can be calculated by the following equation: Prob(NCC) = 1/(1+e?v), where V = (?0.038 ? 1.2sex + 1.304IPI + 0.95iEEG). This equation was able to correctly predict the presence of neuroimaging findings of NCC in 71% of our surgical MTLE-HS patients. Conclusions: Taken together, our results suggest that NCC might be associated with epileptogenesis in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy in susceptible patients, thus being a possible risk factor for development of MTLE-HS. Indeed, if such association were only coincidental, occurring because of the relative high prevalence of both pathologies in the same region, differences between these two groups of patients were expected to be null. However, some important differences were observed and some associations were possible. Differences were observed for women, for those patients without an IPI history before 5 years-old, and for those patients with bi-temporal interictal EEG spikes. These results might help us to better understand the interactions between NCC and MTLE-HS, improving our insights on the possible factors that might explain the association of NCC and refractory MTLE-HS in some world areas. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Frank D. Boesebeck, 1 Stefan Freermann, 1 Christoph Kellinghaus, 1 Moddel Gabriel, and 1 Evers Stefan ( 1 Neurological Department, University Hospital of Muenster, Muenster, Germany ) Rationale: Paroxysmal neurological deficits following epileptic seizures or other medical conditions frequent lead to admission on a Neuro-ICU. The etiological misinterpretation of such events may cause a delayed begin of treatment or an inappropriate utilization of diagnostic- and ICU-capacities. Methods: The data of 208 patients being admitted to a Neuro-ICU because of episodic neurological deficits, loss of consciousness and unclear motor phenomena have retrospectively been analyzed. The initially suspected diagnosis in the neurological emergency room was compared to the final diagnosis and the proportion of misdiagnosis was related to the patients' history and diagnostic data respectively. Results: 13.9% of the episodes initially suspected as epileptic seizures proved to be non-epileptic events (NEE). 76% of those patients with ?misdiagnosed? NEE had a prior history of epilepsy. The rate of misdiagnosed NEE was higher in patients with regular EEG-findings (16.7% vs. 8.7%) and regular CT findings (21.2% vs. 11.4%). 15.6% of the epileptic seizures were falsely interpreted to be non-epileptic (6.7% with status epilepticus). The rate of misdiagnosed epileptic Seizures (MES) was higher in patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy if compared to known epilepsy (11.2% vs. 1.4%), whereas the rate of misdiagnosed status epilepticus was independent from a prior history of epilepsy (6% vs. 5.4%). The rate of MES was significantly higher in patients with pathologic CT findings (18.9% vs. 1.8%) and pathologic MRI findings (16.3% vs. 3.3%) respectively. MES were most frequent in patients with hydrocephalus, microangiopathy in CT/MRI and prior neurovascular insults. Conclusions: Our data reveille a known epilepsy and the lack of pathological findings on EEG, CT to be risk factors for the misdiagnoses of non-epileptic paroxysmal events, whereas no prior history of epilepsy and pathologic findings on CT and MRI more often caused a misinterpretation of epileptic seizures to be other neurological disorders. 1 Maya R. Carter, 1 Allan Krumholz, 1 Tricia Ting, and 1 Jennifer Hopp ( 1 Neurology, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Nocturnal Frontal Lobe Epilepsy (NFLE) is established as a distinct clinical epileptic syndrome with a spectrum of clinical presentations within the heterogeneous group of paroxysmal sleep-related disturbances. Pregnancy is well known to exacerbate seizures in many patients with epilepsy, but there are no reports of the effects of pregnancy on seizures in patients with NLFE. Methods: We report two women with NFLE documented by clinical history and video-EEG monitoring with severe seizure exacerbations during pregnancy. Both patients had long histories of mainly nocturnal episodes of motor jerking or spasm involving mainly the hand and arm on one side and nocturnal generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Both patients were eventually successfully treated with carbamazepine with nearly complete resolution of symptoms. However, during their first pregnancies both patients experienced severe exacerbations of their nocturnal seizures requiring hospitalizations. Additionally, both patients were on high doses of folic acid. Results: An exacerbation occurred in the 3rd trimester of pregnancy in one patient taking stable doses of Carbatrol, with therapeutic carbamazepine blood levels, despite increasing the dosage of Carbatrol. During the exacerbation she experienced several distressing nocturnal seizures. Upon admission to the hospital her seizures were eventually controlled upon substitution with a short acting carbamazepine preparation, given more frequently than her Carbatrol, and the addition of phenytoin. Events subsequently improved and she was tapered from phenytoin and maintained on the short acting carbamazepine with therapeutic blood levels. She delivered a healthy child without complication, after which she resumed taking Carbatrol without problems. The second patient took carbamazepine only at bedtime with therapeutic blood levels, when her seizures suddenly severely worsened in the first trimester of her pregnancy, despite modest increases in the dosages. She was admitted to the hospital and the dosage was increased and spread out and her folic acid dosage was reduced. Her episodes ceased and she eventually was able to return to the full dosage of folic acid. She and her baby are doing well in the 3rd trimester of pregnancy. Of note is that in the past she had exacerbations of her seizures with the use of birth control pills. Conclusions: Nocturnal Frontal Lobe Epilepsy as demonstrated by these two patients is a distinct epilepsy syndrome which may be exacerbated during pregnancy and exhibits characteristic clinical features. In particular, these patients may develop severe exacerbations of motor symptoms and seizures during pregnancy. Potential mechanisms include alterations in antiepileptic drug metabolism, hormonal factors that lower seizure threshold, and the effects of folic acid. The potential for pregnancy to exacerbate NFLE should be recognized and warrants further study and investigation. 1 Hyunmi Choi, 1 Dionysios Pandis, 1 Gary Heiman, and 1 W. Allen Hauser ( 1 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY; Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY; Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University, New York, NY; and Neurology/Epidemiology, Columbia Universiy, New York, NY ) Rationale: Although much is known about the rate of seizure remission in adults that have undergone epilepsy surgery or children with newly diagnosed epilepsy, prognosis for adults with intractable epilepsy is not clearly defined. Population-based or community-based study would require large sample size to detect those with intractable epilepsy that subsequently experience remission. Therefore, examining patients followed at a tertiary clinic setting offers a unique opportunity to study the prognosis in intractable epilepsy patients. Our objectives were to determine the frequency of seizure remission and to evaluate the influence of clinical factors on a 6- month seizure remission among a cohort of adults with intractable epilepsy followed at a tertiary clinic setting. Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study. We reviewed all adult patients seen in 2001 at the Columbia University Epilepsy Center. Subjects met our criteria if 1) they had failed ≥2 AEDs at the index date in 2001, 2) if they had on average ≥1 seizure per month for 3 consecutive months prior to the index date, and 3) enough follow-up time to experience study endpoint. Those who met our criteria of intractability were followed from their index visit in 2001 until their most recent visit to determine if they experienced a 6-month seizure free period. Crude remission rates were determined, overall and for subgroups, and logistic regression analysis was used to establish the independent significance of the clinical variables, which included history of prior epilepsy surgery, status epilepticus, age of onset, epilepsy classification, developmental delay, and etiology. Analysis was conducted stratifying the subjects by their status of epilepsy surgery following entry into the study. Results: Out of 1389 patients seen at the center in 2001, 191 subjects met our criteria of intractable epilepsy. Mean follow-up of these subjects was 3.5 years. The subjects had the following epilepsy types: Localization-related epilepsy 158 (83%) Primary generalized epilepsy 10 (5%) Symptomatic generalized epilepsy 20 (10%) Both LRE and generalized epilepsy 2 (1%) Unclassifiable 1 (1%) Thirty four subjects had epilepsy surgery after entering the study of whom 21(61.7%) experienced a 6-month remission. Of 157 subjects that did not have epilepsy surgery, 32(20.3%) experienced a 6-month remission during the follow-up. None of the clinical variables were significant predictors of a 6-month remission in either group. Conclusions: Subjects not eligible or refusing epilepsy surgery achieved a 6-month remission at a rate of 6% per year. We found no significant predictors of 6-month remission, likely related to power. We suggest a multicenter study with systematic follow-up of intractable cases to address this issue. (Supported by K12 RR017648.) 1 Ji Soo Choi, 1 Gregory L. Krauss, and 1 Ronald P. Lesser ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Seizure response dogs have recently been used to assist patients during seizures and to provide companionship for patients' coping with a chronic condition. We found that 4 of 6 patients with seizure response dogs at our center had, on further investigation, psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES), and no evidence for epilepsy. These cases illustrate the importance of establishing a firm diagnosis of epilepsy for patients obtaining seizure response dogs. Methods: We evaluated seizure histories, medical evaluations and psychiatric diagnosis of patients with seizure response dogs and PNES. We determined the response of dogs to PNES and their support behaviors. Results: Three patients had specially trained seizure response dogs; a fourth patient's family pet learned to bark during seizures. The four patients reported their dogs reliably anticipated their seizures: in two cases licking them prior to the episodes; two patient's dogs barked prior to their episodes. Three patients had videoEEG which documented PNES; a fourth patient had multiple normal EEG and somatization syndrome. Patients' antiepilepsy drugs were discontinued; their PNES stopped after diagnosis and counseling. Conclusions: Seizure response dogs help vulnerable patients during seizures and help them cope with their chronic condition. Two of our patients with epilepsy are supported by service dogs that stay with them during their unconscious episodes. We found, however, that four other patients with seizure response dogs had PNES, and no evidence for epilepsy. These cases show that patients with abnormal illness behaviors may seek service animals for support and demonstrate the importance of establishing an accurate diagnosis of epilepsy before patients obtain epileptic seizure response dogs. While patients may benefit from emotional support provided by pets, therapy with service animals for primarily psychiatric conditions should be based on individual assessments and formulations regarding these conditions. 1,2,3 Damián E. Consalvo, 1 Marcelo Kauffman, 1 Pablo A. Salgado, and 1,3 Kochen S. Silvia ( 1 Epilepsy Center, Ramos Mejía Hospital, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; 2 FEMIEN Foundation, Argentina ; and 3 University of Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: In patients with the syndrome of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis (MTLE-HS), extrahippocampal abnormalities (EHA) are frequently described on MRI studies. The aim of the study was to evaluate the frequency of EHA in patients with MTLE-HS, and to correlate these findings with some of its clinical characteristics. Methods: MTLE-HS patients, diagnosed by electro-clinical and high resolution MRI findings were examined. The presence of temporal lobe atrophy (TLA), parahippocampal gyrus atrophy (PHA), fornix atrophy (FA) and mammillary bodies atrophy (MBA) on MRI studies were considered EHA by visual analysis. The variables studied were age, age at the beginning of the epilepsy, time of evolution, history of febrile convulsions (FC), familial epilepsy, status epilepticus, secondary generalization of the seizures and response to the pharmacological treatment. Results: Fifty four patients were included. Fifty of them (92.5%) showed EHA on MRI studies. They were divided in 4 groups. Group 1: TLA patients, 18 cases (33.3%); Group 2: PHA patients, 44 cases (81.4%); Group 3: FA patients, 29 cases (53.7%); and Group 4: MBA patients, 23 cases (42.5%). EHA were found in 14 of 17 (82.3%) normal controls. Anyone showed TLA or PHA. Three controls showed FA (p < 0.02) and 2 MBA (p < 0.04). A strong association between PHA and the history of FC was observed (p = 0,002). There were no differences in the rest of the variables analyzed. Conclusions: The presence of EHA suggests that the causal noxa of the syndrome of MTLE-HS also affects other areas widely connected with the hippocampus. The association between PHA and FC introduce a hypothesis of a physiopathological mechanism of common affectation. 1 Charles L. Dalmagro, 1 Ricardo Guarnieri, 1 Maria Priscila Cescato, 1 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 Veriano Alexandre Jr., 1 Vera C. Terra-Bustamante, 1 Lauro Wichert-Ana, 1 Jo?o A. Assirati Jr., 1 Carlos G. Carlotti Jr., 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Jayme E. Hallak, and 1 Américo C. Sakamoto ( 1 CIREP-Department of Neurology, Psychiatry, and Medical Psychology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Some reports point to the inverse correlation between depression and the presence of generalized seizures in focal symptomatic epilepsy. However, this issue is still controversial. In order to evaluate whether MTLE-HS patients with few tonic-clonic episodes have differences in the frequency of depressive or other psychiatric symptoms, we conducted the present study. Methods: In a retrospective case-control study we analyzed presurgical data of a group of 81 homogeneous MTLE-HS. Patients were divided in two sub-groups: a) group with rare generalizations (n = 40): no episodes to less than one episode of secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizure per month; b) group with frequent generalization (n = 41): at least one or more generalized seizures per month. Patients were matched other varibles Psychiatric diagnosis was established by psychiatrists with experience in psychiatric disorders associated with epilepsy, and according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition. Patients were further classified for positive or negative psychiatric diagnosis and further sub-divided according to symptoms of depression or other psychiatric diagnostics. The magnitude of associations was measured by the O.R. (95% CI). Results: Psychiatric diagnosis was observed in 45 of the 81 patients (55%). In the group with rare generalization we observed 18 patients with psychiatric symptoms and 22 patients without psychiatric co-morbidities. In the group of frequent generalizations we observed 18 patients with psychiatric symptoms and 23 patients without psychiatric co-morbidities (O.R. = 0.96; 95% C.I = 0.40 2.30; p = 1.00). Regarding only depressive symptoms, in the group with rare generalizations, we observed 9 patients with depressive co-morbidities, and 31 patients without any history of depressive co-morbidities. In the group of frequent generalizations we observed 8 patients with depressive co-morbidities and 33 patients without any psychiatric depressive co-morbidities (O.R. = 0.83; C.I = 0.29?2.44; p = 0.79). Conclusions: Our results do not support the hypothesis that secondary generalized tonic-clonic seizures affect the frequency of depressive symptoms, depression, or other psychiatric co-morbidities in MTLE-HS patients. However, further studies with larger samples are necessary to confirm our results and to assess the impact of surgery in seizure control and its influences in psychiatric co-morbidities. (Supported by FAPESP) 1 Sandeep Dutta, 1 Balakrishna S. Hosmane, and 1 Ronald C. Reed ( 1 Clinical Pharmacokinetics, Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL; Division of Statistics, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL; and Neuroscience, Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL ) Rationale: The development of specific epilepsy subtypes may be gender specific (Epilepsia 2005; 46: 956?60), and it has been speculated that response to antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment is potentially influenced by gender. Gender influences the pharmacokinetic disposition of drugs in general (Clin Pharmacokinet 2003; 42: 107?21); this concern extends to AEDs (Epilepsia 2005; 46-Suppl 6: 46). While gender is associated with alterations in rat valproic acid (VPA) glucuronidation (Drug Metab Dispos 1996; 24: 367?70), limited information exists concerning the impact of gender on VPA disposition in humans. The objective of this analysis was to examine the effect of gender on VPA pharmacokinetics in adults. Methods: Plasma VPA pharmacokinetic parameters from 5 published multiple dose studies (Clin Drug Investigation 2004, 24 (9): 495?508) in male (n = 106) and female (n = 64) healthy subjects and epilepsy patients on drug-metabolizing hepatic enzyme-inducing AEDs receiving 875?5000 mg/day doses of conventional delayed-release enteric-coated divalproex sodium (divalproex) and extended-release divalproex sodium (divalproex-ER) tablets were analyzed. Statistical analysis was performed in SAS at a significance level of 0.05. A linear mixed model with heterogeneous compound symmetry structure across studies to account for correlation among multiple observations within a subject was used for assessing the gender effect on the response. The model included effects for study, formulation, gender, dose level, an interaction between gender and formulation; body weight (ranging from 45 to 139 kg) was a covariate. Data for divalproex and divalproex-ER were analyzed separately since interaction between gender and formulation was significant (p < 0.0027). Results: Gender did not have a significant influence on VPA pharmacokinetics following divalproex or divalproex-ER administration. VPA least squares mean values for males vs. females, respectively, were: (a) for exposure (AUC24 [mg.h/L]) 1800 vs. 1762 (p = 0.5148) for divalproex and 1593 vs. 1636 (p = 0.5284) for divalproex-ER; (b) for maximum concentration (Cmax [ mg/L]) 101.8 vs. 102.4 (p = 0.8262) for divalproex and 81.0 vs. 83.9 (p = 0.3230) for divalproex-ER; (c) for minimum concentration (Cmin [ mg/L]) 52.6 vs. 51.9 (p = 0.7894) for divalproex and 47.2 vs. 49.1 (p = 0.5470) for divalproex-ER; and (d) for degree of peak-trough fluctuation (DFL) 0.635 vs. 0.660 (p = 0.3687) for divalproex and 0.439 vs. 0.476 (p = 0.2241) for divalproex-ER. Conclusions: No significant differences in VPA pharmacokinetic parameters were observed between male and female participants receiving divalproex or divalproex-ER after accounting for dose, differences in body weight, study effect and multiple observations within a subject/patient. (Supported by Abbott Laboratories.) 1 John O. Elliott, 2 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 3 Brenda Seals ( 1 Public Health, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; 2 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ; and 3 Public Health, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: It is well known in the neurology literature that anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) lead to bone loss. Several large epidemiologic studies have found twice the fracture rate in persons with epilepsy compared to non-epilepsy populations. To date no one has attempted to assess knowledge of osteoprotective behaviors in persons with epilepsy. Methods: The Osteoporosis Knowledge Test (OKT), a validated, 24-item test, was administered to 94 epilepsy patients. Kim, et al. developed the OKT to measure knowledge of risk factors for osteoporosis and strategies for prevention related to calcium and exercise. Results: Mean age of participants was 45 years with 20 years of AED exposure. There were 66 females and 28 males of which 50 were Caucasian and 44 were non-Caucasian. No significant differences related to age or gender for the OKT were found. One-way ANOVA of ethnicity found non-Caucasians had much lower knowledge for calcium (F = 8.15, p = .005) and exercise (F = 7.71, p = .007). Those reporting > 12 years of education had higher knowledge scores for calcium (F = 39.25, p = .000) and exercise (F = 17.09, p = .000). Subjects reporting an income above $30,001 had higher levels of knowledge for calcium (F = 3.93, p = .024) and exercise (F = 3.46, p = .037). Subjects who were seizure free > 1 year also had higher knowledge related to calcium (F = 6.76, p = .002) and exercise (F = 3.59, p = .032) compared to those reporting seizures within the last year. Significant differences in calcium knowledge were noted for individuals previously diagnosed with bone loss (F = 4.98, p = .028). In addition, for those reporting a family history of osteoporosis, knowledge was higher for calcium (F = 5.58, p = .005) and exercise (F = 6.23, p = .003). Subjects taking calcium supplements had higher knowledge for calcium (F = 5.35, p = .023) but not for exercise. No significant differences were found based on fracture history. Conclusions: Overall, this study adds to the understanding of patient knowledge related to bone loss in epilepsy. Age and gender appear to have little impact on knowledge related to osteoporosis, compared with socioeconomic factors such as years of education, yearly income and ethnicity. This mirrors what has been found in the medical literature for non-epilepsy populations. One area that may help improve knowledge is the use of culturally relevant education materials. Patient education materials that focus on facts and use medical terms foreign to the general public (disease history, etiology, symptoms, treatment options and side effects) are less effective and tend to be written at a level that exceeds the readability of most patients. Clinically, patients may need to achieve longer term seizure freedom before osteoprotective information can be recommended. Low socioeconomic status may place people at a disadvantage for prevention recommendations. 1 Siegward M. Elsas, 1 Garrett White, 1 Carole-Anne Randall-Stitt, and 1 Sonia Munoz ( 1 Department of Neurology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR ) Rationale: This is a pilot study to evaluate physiologic and potential therapeutic effects of a meditative relaxation technique in patients with complex partial epilepsy. Methods: Two patients with a 30 vs. 45 year history of complex partial and generalized seizures practiced meditative relaxation for 30 min per day over 12 months in the context of a behavioral program for seizure control. Three serial EEGs were obtained during simulated stress and meditative relaxation. In addition to epileptic spikes, changes in breathing and heartrate and tonic EMG were obtained as measures of body tension. Results: At baseline, the patients had 4.2 vs. 2.7 GTC and 6.9 vs. 1.9 CPS seizures on average per month despite optimal medical and surgical epilepsy care. Twelve months after initiation of the behavioral program, patient 1 was seizure free for 8 months and patient 2 had 0.15 GTC and 0 CPS on average per month. In both patients, body tension measures in the first serial EEG showed poor compliance with the meditative relaxation. In both patients, the second and third serial EEGs showed increased epileptic spikes and decreased body tension during meditative relaxation compared to the simulated stress periods. Conclusions: Meditative relaxation appears to increase epileptic spikes in the EEG but may reduce seizures for patients with complex partial epilepsy in the context of a behavioral program. It is known that sufficient sleep is essential for maintaining good seizure control, even though sleep temporarily increases epileptic spikes. In similarity to sleep, it is possible that the temporary increase in spikes during meditative relaxation practice may be beneficial to epilepsy patients. (Supported by Medical Research Foundation of Oregon; National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine at NIH) 1 Bernt A. Engelsen, 1 Charalampos Tzoulis, 2 Massimo Zeviani, 1 Bj?rn Karlsen, 1 Atle Lilleb?, 3 Liv Lægreid, 4 Aasly Jan, and 1 Laurence Bindoff ( 1 Institute of Clinical Medicine and Molecular Medicine, University of Bergen and University Hospital of Haukeland, Bergen, Norway ; 2 Unit of Molecular Neurogenetics Pierfranco and Luisa Mariana Center for the Study of Children's Mitochondrial Disorders, National Neurological Institute ?C.Besta?, Milano, Italy ; 3 Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital of Bergen, Bergen, Norway ; and 4 Department of Neurology, St. Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway ) Rationale: The epileptic semiology of 19 norwegian patients (13 families) with mutations in the polymerase-? (POLG) gene is presented for the first time with EEG findings. A broader clinical symptomatology has been presented previously, but not a detailed description of the epilepsy. The patients were either homozygous for the 1399 G > A or 2243 G > C mutation, or compound heterozygotes for either of the two mutations. Methods: Data from patients with therapy refractory status epilepticus were collected over several years, and tested for various mitochondrial mutations and delesions. After examination of several candidate areas mutations in POLG were found and subsequent candidate patients tested. Results: Irrespective of the genotype the epilepsies developed a similar semiology with initial features of occipital lobe epilepsy followed by more secondary generalized features including focal motor phenomena and GTC seizures. Occipital seizure phenomena included, flickering coloured lights, visual loss, nystagmus (horizontal or vertical), dysmorphopsia, micro-macropsia, palinopsia and most patients had simple motor phenomena suggesting frontal lobe seizure origin or spread. SPS, CPS, myoclonic seizures and frequent convulsive status epilepticus were observed in the epileptic syndrome. All but one patient developed status epilepticus. Ten of 19 patients are dead, all related to prolonged status epilepticus, icluding 2 with liver failure. Epilepsy was the most common presentation of the full clinical syndrome, often with headache. The mean age at epilepsy debut was 18,4 years (6?58). The broader clinical semiology of most of these patients have been presented (Wintherthun et al. Neurology 2005;64:1204?8 and Tzoulis et al. Brain 2006, in press). The epilepsy and consequences of valproate treatment has proven the most important factor for fatal outcome. Conclusions: Occipital lobe epilepsy is a hallmark of POLG mutations in the present patient population, and epilepsy an important factor in fatal outcome. (Supported by Helse-Vest, Bergen. Norway.) 1 Berend Feddersen, 1 Margret Kilian, 1 Cordula Mauerer, 1 Christian Vollmer, 1 Jan Ricken, and 1 Soheyl Noachtar ( 1 Epilepsy Center Department of Neurology, University of Munich, Munich, Germany ) Rationale: Most seizures of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) are characterized by manual and oral automatisms preceded by abdominal aura. Head version, hand dystonia and secondary generalization reflect spread of epileptic seizure activity. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether different spread pattern in temporal lobe epilepsy are more likely to generalize secondarily than others. Methods: We searched the data base of the University of Munich Epilepsy Monitoring Unit for the terms dystonia, version and temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The first consecutive 62 TLE patients with seizure evolutions characterized by either dystonia (n = 24) or head version (n = 38) were included in the study. MRI and high quality EEG-videos recordings were available in all patients. 82 seizure evolutions with dystonia were intraindividually compared with 68 seizures of these patients without dystonia. In addition, 65 seizures with version were compared with 163 seizures of the same patients without version. All seizure evolutions were classified prospectively independent of the other clinical results based on a semiological seizure classification system. Head version was classfied independent of secondary generalization of a given seizure. Results: The rate of secondary generalization was significantly higher in seizures with version (86%, 56 of 65) than seizures with dystonia (17%, 14 of 82) (p < 0.001). The comparison of the rate of secondary generalization in seizures of the same patients with and without dystonia (and no version) revealed that the rate of secondary generalization was higher in seizures with dystonia (17% vs. 3%). However, the difference in rate of generalization was much higher in the seizures with version: 12% of the seizures generalized secondarily if no version was present as opposed to 86% in seizures with version. Conclusions: In TLE, epileptic spread to the frontal eye field, which is involved in generating head version is more likely to eventually lead to secondary generalization than spread to the basal ganglia, which is considered a generator of dystonia. These findings could support an inhibiting role of the basal ganglia for spread of epileptic activity. 1 Felicia Ferguson, 1 Martin C. Salinsky, and 1 David Spencer ( 1 Neurology, Oregon Health  Wilcoxon test). For the 1989 cohort, 80% of patients were on AEDs at the time of admission and 24% were on 2 or more AEDs. Results for the 2003 cohort were nearly identical (mean of 1.2 AEDs at admission for each group; NS). Conclusions: Our results show that patients with PS are now being referred for diagnostic evaluation much earlier than was the case 12 years earlier. During this time period there were no changes in the availability of inpatient monitoring in Oregon. Therefore, a likely explanation is the impact of efforts, local and national (AES), to educate students and physicians about PS. Despite progress, two years remains a considerable lag between onset of PS and diagnostic referral, and there has been no reduction in the use of AEDs to treat PS prior to diagnosis. 1 David M. Ficker, 1 Cynthia Hughes, 1 Michael D. Privitera, and 2 Rakesh Shukla ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Department of Environmental Health, University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: To determine which components of quality of life (HRQOL) are different between subjects who were seizure free and not seizure free at last follow up in a cohort of newly diagnosed epilepsy. Methods: We prospectively measure the QOLIE-89, Profile of Mood States (POMS) and Adverse Events Profile in patients within three months of a new diagnosis of epilepsy. Serial measures are performed every four months. Inclusion criteria are: age between 18?64, able to read and speak English and a minimum tenth grade education. Exclusion criteria are: inability to complete forms, presence of other neurologic or medical disorders that may affect HRQOL, prior craniotomy and use of medications that can affect the central nervous system (other than AEDs). A t-test was performed comparing QOL measures at last follow up between subjects who were seizure free and those not seizure free. Results: We enrolled 53 subjects with newly diagnosed epilepsy (22 males, 32 females). Follow-up data was available on 40 patients (mean duration of follow-up 1.3 years). At last follow-up, 65% were seizure free and 35% were not seizure free. Table 1 summarizes differences on QOL measures between these groups. Conclusions: These results suggest that a seizure free state is associated with a higher QOL and improved anxiety symptoms. We found non-significant trends toward superior scores on other POMS subscales in the seizure free group. 1 Measure Seizure free Not seizure free p value QOLIE-89 78.8 63.6 0.006 POMS tension/anxiety ?9.2 13.8 0.02? POMS depression-dejection ?8.3 11.4 NS POMS anger-hostility ?6.3 10.0 NS POMS vigor-activity 16.3 13.9 NS POMS fatigue-inertia ?9.1 12.1 NS POMS confusion-bewilderment ?7.4 ?8.6 NS (Supported by NINDS 5K23NS002170.) 1 Maria B. Viaggio, 1 Maria E. Fontela, and 1 Alfredo Thomson ( 1 Epilepsy Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: Non Convulsive Status Epilepticus (NCSE) assembles different electrographic and clinical syndromes. Although consciousness impairment is its outstanding feature, several other manifestations such as behavioral and cognitive changes, turns it difficult to diagnose. Due to this pleomorfism, great knowledge of its clinical presentation and high suspicious index is mandatory for prompt diagnosis. Methods: Records of patients with diagnosis of Status Epilepticus admitted into our center between 1996 and 2005 were reviewed. According to clinical and electrographic criteria, cases of NCSE were selected. Semiology, demographic data, aetiology, referral latencies and delays in diagnosis, treatment given and mortality were considered and submitted to statistical analysis. Results: 63 patients were included, 3 of them presented more than 1 NCSE, totaling 68 NCSE. The study group mean age was 57 (±21), in it 35 patients were female. Main presenting features were: consciousness impairment, confusion, behavioral changes and prolonged postictal state. NCSE were classified as acute symptomatic: 26 cases, of remote aetiology: 30 cases and idiopathic or cryptogenic: 12 cases. Mean referral latency was 65 hours (few minutes to 1 month). On admission into our center, suspicious of NCSE arouse: immediately in 54 cases (79,41%), in 9 between 24 and 72 hours and in 5 cases around 96 hours (due to time required to rule out other aetiologies related to history of dementia, stroke, aphasia and psychiatric problems of these patients). Time to control status after treatment started, was 24 hours. The larger delay in referral the longer the time to control status (p = 0.0005). 11 cases were classified as refractory. Five patients died (7,3% of the study group). 4 deaths were related to the underlying disease. While new onset NCSE were 38 cases (with a mean age of 61.2 ± 21.3), NCSE among epileptic patients resulted in 25 cases (mean age: 50.8 ± 18.4); (difference in ages between these sub-groups determined: p = 0.03). Non epileptic patients revealed longer delays when looking for medical intervention; and among them NCSE of acute symptomatic aetiology was more frequent (p = 0.003). Conclusions: Our study population represents one of the largest groups when considering prior reports in the literature. Two main pieces of conclusions could be obtained from its analysis: In first place: Considerable delays in referral were observed probably due to confusing heterogeneous clinical presentation; this determined longer times to control status. Low mortality rate could be related to early diagnosis and few refractory cases. Secondly: in our study population NCSE appeared ?de novo? mainly among older patients and specially related to an underlying acute process. Absence of history of epilepsy resulted in longer delays in looking for medical help. We emphasize that: due to its potential control with prompt treatment and because of its heterogeneous presentation, high suspicious index could improve outcome of NCSE. 1 Nathan B. Fountain, and 1 Miao Liu ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: The rate of becoming seizure free (SF) in established epilepsy is unknown. It is often assumed that SF is unlikely to be achieved once epilepsy is established. An important principle of treatment is that seizures respond soon after an intervention or not at all and that there is a very low background rate of becoming SF that continues even if the intervention is ineffective. We hypothesized (incorrectly) that most patients would become SF at the time of an intervention and then would become SF at a constant very low rate afterward. Methods: Standardized data were prospectively collected by epileptologists from patients in the UVA Epilepsy Clinic from April 1998 to November 2004. Data were acquired directly from patients and medical records, and refined, cleaned, and updated at each clinic visit. Analysis was limited to subjects with definite epilepsy > 5 years old with 3 or more SZ frequency entries to construct SZ frequency curves. Frequency of each SZ type was collected. For each subject, monthly SZ frequency was plotted over time throughout the study period. SF was defined as a total frequency of 0 for at least 6 mo. Duration of SF was defined by the interval between an intervention (surgery, adding a drug, increasing a drug dose, or other) and the last seizure. Results: From 1638 subjects, 988 had 3 or more SZ frequency entries. 231 were excluded because SF was present from the first entry. Therefore, 757 had active seizures at entry to the study and represented the population that could become SF. Of these, 32% (243) became SF and 68% (514) continued to have seizures. Prior to becoming SF, 34% (84) had a history of SF so that a 6 month interval of SF may not be different from their baseline. However, 50% (121) had a high baseline SZ frequency of > 1/mo while only 16% (38) had SZ frequency of < 1/mo. suggesting that SF was not due to low baseline SZ frequency. SF developed at the onset of an intervention in 54%, as expected. a cumulative plot of SF over time revealed a significant minority (25%) became SF over the next 24 mo., a rate of 13%/year. The rate of SF subsequently flattened after 24 mo. to a new baseline rate of only about 1?2% per year. Conclusions: A surprisingly significant minority of patients will become SF in the 2 years after the last intervention, suggesting it may take months for therapy to become effective in some situations. This suggests there are brain changes that occur over long durations, possibly in response to therapy. The low rate of SF subsequent to 2 years after an intervention is likely the baseline rate of SF in epilepsy since it occurred without any recent intervention. [figure 1] (Supported by University of Virginia.) 1 Marlise Frey, 1 Andres M. Kanner, and 1 Glenn T. Stebbins ( 1 Rush Epilepsy Center, Rush University Med Ctr, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Several retrospective studies have reported significant increases in apparent clearance (Cl) of lamotrigine (LTG) during pregnancy. Such an increase has been shown to be progressive until the 32nd week of gestation, followed by a rapid return postpartum to preconception levels. Failure to adjust LTG doses to the increase in Cl yields lower serum concentrations and may result in seizures. The aim of our study was to evaluate the LTG dose adjustments required across trimesters (TMs) to maintain preconception levels in a cohort remaining seizure free during pregnancy. Methods: A retrospective chart review study resulted in four patients meeting the following criteria: stable dose of LTG and seizure free state for at least one month prior to conception, LTG monotherapy or one adjunct AED with no known pharmacokinetic interactions. Adjunct AED dose was not adjusted during pregnancy. No concomitant drug therapy interfering with metabolic pathway of LTG. At least one documented LTG serum level at steady state (Css) and wt. per TM. No known seizures during pregnancy. LTG dose adjustments were only made in an attempt to maintain preconception levels. For each TM the following mean values were recorded for each pt.: wt., dose (in mg/kg), and LTG Css. LTG Cl was calculated with the equation: CL = dose (mg/kg/day)/LTG Css. Data were analyzed using a Friedman's ANOVA with post-hoc comparisons using a Wilcoxon Signed Ranks Test. LTG values were normalized for weight (LTG/wt). This value was our primary outcome variable. We also compared serum LTG levels across TMs to assess if preconception values were maintained. Results: Serum LTG levels (median per TM: 1st = 5.6, range 5.8; 2nd = 7.6, range 5.8; 3rd = 7.6, range 12.6) did not change significantly across TMs (X2= 1.50, p = .47). LTG dose/wt (median per TM: 1st = 8.6 mg/kg, range 5.9 mg/kg; 2nd = 12.5 mg/kg, range 14.3 mg/kg; 3rd = 14.3 mg/kg, range 12.9 mg/kg) was significantly different across TMs (X2= 8.0, p = .02). Post-hoc comparisons revealed significant increase in LTG dose/wt from 1st to 2nd TM (Z =?1.83, p = .03 one-tailed) and between 2nd and 3rd TM (Z =?1.83, p = .03 one-tailed). Median increase in dose/wt from 1st to 2nd TM was 3.91 mg/kg/day (range = 8.4), and median increase from 2nd to 3rd TM was 1.96 mg/kg/day (range = 1.61). Conclusions: Increments of LTG dose across TMs can maintain preconception LTG levels throughout pregnancy. The required increase appeared greater between the 1st and 2nd TM than between the 2nd and 3rd TM, although our limited sample size precludes formal statistical analysis of these differences. This may appear counterintuitive as increased blood volume in the 3rd TM would seem to necessitate a larger increase in LTG dose. However, we controlled for this by normalizing LTG dose for wt. (LTG/wt). These results suggest that significant increases in LTG dose/wt are required to maintain preconception LTG serum levels across TM. Presently prospective data is being collected to expand on these findings. 1 Sandra S. Funayama, 1 Edna A. Monteiro, 1 Vera C. Terra-Bustamante, 1 Ricardo Guarnieri, 1 Otávio I. De Faria, 1 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 Veriano Alexandre Jr., 1 Lauro Wichert-Ana, 1 Jo?o A. Assirati Jr., 1 Carlos G. Carlotti Jr., 2 Li Li Min, 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Jaime E. Hallak, and 1 Américo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Department of CIREP-Neurology, Psychiatry, and Medical Psychology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo at Ribeir?o, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Neurology, UNICAMP-State University of Campinas, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: A large proportion of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy associated with hippocampal sclerosis (MTLE-HS) can be rendered seizure-free after surgery. In these patients, the benefit of surgical treatment seems to extend beyond seizure control, affecting many other aspects of their health and quality of life. Some of these benefits might be quite subjective and because of that might remain underevaluated. Recently, we have validated the Subjective Handicap of Epilepsy scale (SHE) for Brazilian patients. Here, we use SHE scale as a tool to further evaluate the benefits of surgical seizure control in refractory MTLE-HS. Methods: A validated version for Brazilian patients of the SHE scale was administered to 74 patients with refractory MTLE-HS during the presurgical evaluation, and to another 89 surgically treated MTLE-HS patients with good seizure control, in a case-control study. To assess seizure outcome we applied Engel's scale and we definied good seizure control as patients with Engel classes 1. The patients were matched by pre-surgical age, neurophysiological data, and neuroimaging variables. They were also matched by socio-economic level. For numeric variables, we used Mann-Whitney test. For categorical variables we applied Fisher's exact test. A Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA) with Wilks' Lambda multivariate test was used to assess mean differences of the six sub-scales scores of SHE scale. For those, results are expressed in mean (95% C.I.), and were significant if p < 0.05. SHE scale scores before and after surgery Pre- or Post Surgical evaluation Work and activity Social and personal Physical Self-perception Life-satisfaction Changes Mean scores of Pre-surgical refractory MTLE-HS patients 51 62 49 43 60 52 95% C.I. [46, 56] [57, 68] [43, 55] [38, 48] [55, 64] [49, 56] Mean scores of Pos-surgical good control MTLE-HS patients 88** 79** 76** 81** 69* 81** 95% C.I. [83, 93] [74, 84] [70, 81] [76, 85] [65, 73] [77, 84] (*) p < 0.005; (**) p < 0.0001 Results: The multivariate test showed significant differences between the two groups of patients (Walk's Lambda = 0,045; F(6,156) = 554.17; p < 0.001; observed power = 1.00). The mean results [95 C.I.] of the six sub-scales scores of SHE scale is presented in Table. Conclusions: Post-surgical good seizure control improves all the six sub-scales scores of SHE in refractory MTLE-HS. Our results strongly support that good post-surgical seizure control in medically refractory MTLE-HS improves health quality of life. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Helena Gauffin, 1 Lena Raty, and 1 Birgitta Axelsson-Soderfeldt ( 1 Department of Neurology and Locomotion, Division of Neurology, Faculty of Health Sciences,Linkoping University, Linkoping, Sweden ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to compare seizure frequency and antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment with the situation five years earlier in a group of young people with uncomplicated epilepsy. Methods: We followed 99 young people with uncomplicated epilepsy from 1999 to 2004. Data was collected from medical records from swedish hospitals and from self-reported questionnaires.We collected data about medication and seizure frequency. Results: One third of the patients were still using old anti-epileptic drugs (Phenytoin, Karbamazepin or Valproate) compared to 67% five years earlier. The number of patients using new antiepileptic drugs or a combination of drugs had increased from 23 to 41%. Despite of these changes of medication the seizure frequency had not improven significantly. However, the number of patients not using antiepileptic drugs had increased from 9 to 19% during these five years.These patients were also seizure free. Conclusions: There have been considerable changes in the use of anti-epileptic drugs during the last few years in this group and that reflects a shift in AED use in Sweden during this period. In this study we could not demonstrate that these changes of medication have improved the seizure frequency for young people with uncomplicated epilepsy. 1 Ian L. Goldsmith, and 1 Amit Verma ( 1 Department of Neurology, Peter Kelleway Section of Neurophysiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: The intracarotid amobarbital procedure (IAP) remains an important part of presurgical evaluation. The initial doses of amobarbital required to induce an adequate clinical response varies in adults. Variation in dosing in 2 patients with diffuse unilateral hemispheric abnormalities, who underwent IAP as part of a presurgical evaluation, is reported. Methods: 5 intracarotid amobarbital injections were performed in 2 adult presurgical patients with diffuse unilateral hemispheric abnormalities. The patients had previously undergone prolonged video EEG monitoring, MRI head imaging and neuropsychological testing. Angiography was performed first to determine the degree of crossfilling. EEG monitoring was performed throughout the procedure. Injected doses of amobarbital ranged from 62.5 to 150 mg. Effectiveness of dosing was determined by the presence of a contralateral hemiplegia, ipsilateral slowing on EEG and the absence of obtundation that precluded adequate clinical testing. Testing was performed to determine lateralization of language and memory function. Results: The 2 patients studied had previously performed MRI imaging demonstrating diffuse left hemispheric abnormalites. In the first a multilobar neuronal migration abnormality was seen and in the second multilobar encephalomalacia was present. Neuropsychological testing in both patients was nonlateralizing. In both patients the IAP was performed with injection of the affected hemisphere first. An initial injection of 100 mg was increased to 125 mg in the first patient and to 150 mg in the second in order to achieve an effective dose. In injecting the contralateral, unaffected hemisphere, the first patient had an inital dose of 100 mg given that resulted in obtundation that precluded any clinical testing. This injection was later repeated at an initial dose of 50 mg that was then increased to 62.5 mg to achieve the desired effect with only brief obtundation. The second patient was given an initial dose of 75 mg that was effective with minimal obtundation. Conclusions: In the 2 patients with diffuse unilateral hemispheric abnormalities who underwent a bilateral IAP a significant difference in the required amobarbital dosing was observed. The effective dose of amobarbital was significantly less for the uninvolved hemisphere and was significantly higher for the affected hemisphere. 1 Zakaria Hakma, 1 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 1 Ausim Azizi ( 1 Neurology, Temple University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage is bleeding into the parenchyma of the brain that may extend into the ventricles and, in rare cases, the subarachnoid space. Each year, approximately 37,000 to 52,400 people in the United States have an intracerebral hemorrhage. Seizures associated with nontraumatic ICH have not been fully characterized. There is little information relating seizures to clinical presentation, course, or outcome in ICH and the existing data do not define the role of anticonvulsants during the acute hospitalization for ICH. This study addresses these issues through a retrospective evaluation of patients with hypertensive ICH. Methods: We analyzed 123 consecutive admissions to our NICU between 12/2005 and 5/2006. Subjects with head trauma, brain neoplasm, aneurysms or any etiology to explain the ICH besides hypertension (HTN) were excluded. 78 ICH met the criteria. Clinical features, timing of seizures relative to hemorrhage onset, factors predisposing to ICH, including HTN, bleeding diathesis (thrombocytopenia or anticoagulation therapy), worsening of clinical and radiographic findings after the seizure were assessed. Results: Demographics: Median age 62.8, range 35 to 90 years. Ethnicity: African American 59%, Caucasian 25%, Hispanic 11.5% and Asian 4% . 85.9% had Chronic HTN and 33% had prior CVA; 4 subjects had history of seizures. Average BP on admission was 170/95. Fourteen patients were coagulopathic. Clinical presenting features were: change in mental status 35%, Hemiparesis 25.6%, Headache18%, Aphasia 5%, and Seizure 2.5%. ICH location: Basal ganglia/thalamus 51.2%, Lobar 41%, Cerebellar 2.5%, and Pons 3.8%. Intraventricular extension occurred in 38.4%. Of 78 subjects, 2 had seizures, both upon presentation, both with prior seizures. 75 subjects were evaluated for AED prophylaxis (AEDP). 23 (30%) received AEDP. Lobar hemorrhages comprised 46% of AEDP but only 32% of the no AEDP group. Average ICU stay for all subjects was 7.8 days compared to subjects who received AED 10.6 days and subjects who did not receive AED 6.2 days. Adverse effects attributed to AEDP included fever, abnormal liver functions and hypotension. Based on one-way ANOVA there was a significant difference on length of stay between subjects who did not receive AED prophylactic and those who did (F = 5.52, p = 0.022). Conclusions: In this series of HTN ICH, the incidence of acute seizures was 2.6% and those subjects with seizures had antecedent epilepsy. This contrasts to previous reports. Features of our population would suggest a greater tendency to seizure. Subjects with seizures had their ictal event at or shortly after, hemorrhage onset, a finding previously reported. In our series 23 subjects received prophylactic AED therapy; however none of the remaining 55 subjects had clinical seizures during their hospital stay. Additionally, those who received AEDs had longer ICU stays and increased non-neurologic complications. 1 Nathan C. Hantke, 1 Michael J. Doherty, and 1 Alan M. Haltiner ( 1 Neuroscience Institute/Epilepsy Center, Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: The incidence of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) varies with demographic, psychological and clinical history variables (i.e. gender, MMPI profiles, age of seizure onset, etc). Medication use may also differ; PNES patients generally take fewer AEDS than patients with epileptic seizures (ES). Few studies have explored the utilization of other medications within these two populations. This study evaluated the types of medications used by patients with PNES and ES. Methods: Hospital records of a consecutive series of adult patients who completed video-EEG monitoring and were diagnosed with ES (n = 178) or PNES (n = 170) were prospectively reviewed. Patients with both pseudoseizure and an epilepsy diagnosis were excluded. Medication variables examined include: the type and number of different prescribed medications, including current AEDs, previously tried AEDs, medications for psychiatric symptoms (typical and atypical SSRI, tricyclics, anti-psychotics, anxiolytics), pain medications (both narcotic and non-narcotic), and others. Results: PNES patients were on nearly twice as many total medications at the time of admission (M = 6.0) than ES patients (M = 3.2, p < .01). PNES patients were more likely to be taking psychiatric medications, anti-hypertensives, inhalers, gastric-reflux medications, and analgesics(all p < 0.01). Nearly half of the PNES group took analgesics (46%) compared to only 11% of patients with ES (p < 0.01). Narcotic pain medication use was common in the PNES (32%) population but rare in the ES group (3.4%, p < 0.01). Patients with epilepsy were currently taking more AEDS and were tried on more in the past than PNES patients (p < 0.01). However, the duration of illness was longer in the ES group (p < 0.01). When the total number of AEDS tried was divided by the duration of the disorder, PNES patients tried more AEDS per unit of time than ES patients (p < 0.05). 28% of all PNES patients took benzodiazepines compared to only 7% of ES patients (p < .01). Benzodiazapine monotherapy for ?seizures? was reported exclusively in the PNES group (p < 0.01). Conclusions: Our findings demonstrate increased utilization of a variety of different medications by patients with PNES as compared to ES. The increased medication usage might reflect increased physician utilization, drug intolerance by psychogenic patients, and other markers of somatization. PNES patients were not only taking more AEDS per duration of their ?epilepsy?, but also more commonly use benzodiazepines as monotherapy. The increased benzodiazepine usage among PNES patients could reflect physicians' attempts to treat both psychiatric symptoms such as anxiety and presumed epilepsy. In combination with other clinic data, the medication profiles may provide clues about the likelihood of diagnosing PNES or ES. 1 Nicole C. Hank, and 1 Steve S. Chung ( 1 Barrow Neurological Institute, Neurology, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Patients who volunteer for phase II and phase III clinical trials can gain access to investigated drugs long before these compounds are approved by the FDA. Patients participating in double blind, placebo-controlled trials of new medications are invited to partake in an open label extension study. Patients are openly given the active medication at this stage, regardless of their assignment in the initial trial, as long as the study permits. In order to determine if the open label extension phase has an impact on patient enrollment, we surveyed study participants who are currently participating in open label extension trials at our epilepsy center. Methods: All epilepsy patients who are currently participating in one out of 6 phase II or III trials at the Barrow Neurological Institute were included in the study. Questionnaires were administered to patients during their clinic visits or via email. Participating patients were asked questions regarding how open-label extension trials impacted their decision on participation and continuation in a study. In addition, patients were asked to rate their reasons on a 1?5 scale (5 being the most influential) why they would remain in the study in case of potential adverse events or no benefit in the initial placebo-controlled phase. Results: All 41 patients replied to questionnaires. The median age of patients was 32, ranging from 19 to 64 years old. Almost two-third of them were female (68% compared to 32% of males). Thirty-seven of the 41 study participants (90%) answered that they decided to participate in a trial because of the offered open label extension phase. Ninety-Five percent (35 out of 37) admitted that they would have not participated in a research trial if an open label extension had not been offered. Despite 56% (23 out of 41) of patients experienced medication related adverse events (AEs), 87% of them participated in the open label extension phase. All the patients who experienced little or no medication related AEs also proceeded to an open extension. Even though 15 out of 41 patients experienced no significant seizure improvement during the initial placebo controlled phase, all of them participated in the open extension phase. The majority of the patients (83%) identified that the available open label extension phase was one of most influential reasons for remaining in clinical trials (X = 4.2). Conclusions: Open label extension phase is an important and motivating factor why patients would initially participate in clinical trials. Regardless of success of the initial placebo controlled phase, the majority of patients would participate in an open label extension phases. Thus, offering open label phase could significantly increase the patient recruitment in the early phase of clinical trials. 1 Cynthia Harden, 1 Blagovest Nikolov, 1 Douglas Labar, 2 Kristen Fowler, 3 Michael Sperling, 3 Joyce Liporace, 4 Page Pennell, 2 Donald Schomer, 4 Melanee Newman, 3 Gwen Taylor, and 2 Andrew Herzog ( 1 Neurology, Weill Medical Collage of Cornell University, New York, NY ; 2 Harvard Neuroendocrine Unit, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ; 3 Neurology, Thomas Jefferson Hospital, Philadelphia, PA ; and 4 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Seizure severity is an important aspect of epilepsy, however the relationship between quality of life in epilepsy and seizure severity has been incompletely explored. Further, since various seizure severity scales have been used in clinical research, this association is limited by the scope of the seizure severity scale. Using a dataset from the baseline phase of clinical treatment trial, the relationship between seizure severity and aspects of quality of life were evaluated. Methods: Data obtained at the initial visit of the baseline phase of subjects enrolled in the double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial entitled ?Progesterone Therapy for Women with Epilepsy? were used. Seizure severity was assessed using the National Hospital Seizure Severity Scale (NHS3) which consists of 7 questions with 2?4 degrees of responses and scores that range from 1?27 (higher is more severe). This scale focuses on events that occur during the seizure and injuries, rather than postictal recovery. Quality of life was assessed using the QOLIE-31. Statistical methods were Spearman's bivariate correlations and linear regression. Results: One hundred eighteen subjects were evaluated; all were women between the ages 18?45 years. Domains of the QOLIE-31 that significantly correlated with seizure severity were seizure worry (r = 0.265, p = 0.004) and social functioning (r = 0.280, p = 0.002). The overall QOL and cognitive domain each slightly correlated with seizure severity (r = 0.212, p = 0.021; r = 0.205, p = 0.026, respectively). When controlling for the effect of a potential confounding variable, the Beck Depression Inventory, the regression of seizure severity with the QOLIE seizure worry and social functioning remained significant (p = 0.004; p = 0.001, respectively). Conclusions: Seizure severity using the NHS3 correlated with the seizure worry and social functioning domains of the QOLIE-31. These findings indicate that severe and potentially injurious seizure behaviors affect specific aspects of quality of life in epilepsy. Furthermore, these effects of seizure severity on quality of life persist even after accounting for the influence of depression and likely contribute to anxiety and socially avoidant behavior for persons with epilepsy. (Supported by NINDS: NS39466.) 2 Andrew G. Herzog, 1 Mark Quigg, 2 Kristen M. Fowler, and Progesterone Trial Study Group ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; and 2 Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital, Harvard University, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Estimates of the prevalence of catamenial epilepsy differ in definitions used to designate catamenial epilepsy. Past investigations have focused on the relationship between seizure occurrence and either menstrual phase or reproductive hormone levels. In contrast, few studies have evaluated the periodicity of seizures in women to test the hypothesis that they have circalunar or ultralunar patterns of occurrence independent of a priori hormonal considerations. In the present study we determined seizure periodicity according to a ?menstrual clock? provided by a common phase marker of the onset of menstrual bleeding. Methods: Baseline, pretreatment data from seizure and menstrual diaries of ?3 months duration were obtained from women enrolled in a trial of hormonal therapy for localization-related epilepsy. Midluteal serum progesterone levels classified each cycle as ovulatory (>5ng/ml) (OC) or anovulatory (AC). To group seizure data, durations of individual cycles were normalized to a common menstrual phase and period. The start for each cycle was identified as the onset on menstrual bleeding (day 1). Intervening days were then converted to 28 normalized cycle days. Normalized time series were then combined to create mean seizures per menstrual day divided between OC and AC. Rhythms of seizure occurrence were then characterized with cosinor-nonlinear least squares analysis that iteratively tested all potential rhythms for best-fit described by period, amplitude, phase, and mean within designated confidence limits. Rhythms were designated significant when the lower confidence limit of the amplitude > 0 by single-tailed p-value < 0.05. Results: 100 patients provided 3344 seizures within 293 cycles. The duration of cycles before normalization ranged from 20?37 days (mean ± standard deviation, 27.92 ± 2.89). 77% cycles were OC (2587/3344); 20% were AC (673/3344). 3% of seizures occurred during cycles with indeterminate status and were discarded. Seizures during OC displayed a significant circalunar rhythm of occurrence of 31.7 days (26.9?36.5, 90% confidence interval) with peak phase of occurrence at onset of menses. Seizures during AC not only featured a circalunar rhythm of 28.6 (26.4?30.7) days that peaked at menses onset but were also characterized with ultralunar rhythms of 14.0 (13.6?14.3) days and 9.0 (8.9?9.1) days. Conclusions: This study determined that seizures in women with localization-related epilepsy occur in a circalunar rhythm during both ovulatory and anovulatory menstrual cycles. Ovulatory and anovulatory cycles differ in seizure timing with the seizures in the latter occurring in ultralunar rhythms in addition to the predominant circalunar rhythm. This finding supports the existence of catamenial epilepsy and differences in patterns of seizure occurrence between ovulatory and anovulatory cycles. 1 Yue-Loong Hsin, 1 Min-Fei Chuang, and 2 Tomor Harnod ( 1 Department of Neurology, Buddhist Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, Buddhist Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan ) Rationale: To study the clinical grounds, neuroimaing and EEG activity from a three-generation of family with autosomal dominance of adult-onset myoclonic epilepsy. Methods: A 3-generation family of 10 affected members in east-Taiwan was studied with video-EEG and brain MRI. Results: Autosomal dominant hereditary was showed. The myoclonic seizure semiology is characterized by bilaterally symmetric jerks of the shoulders, arms, or legs. Ictally, the consciousness is not affected. The ictal EEG demonstrated polyspike-wave. Rare generalized tonic-clonic seizures occur in 2 patients. No absence is reported. The myoclonic seizures do not related to sleepiness. And no involuntary movement, such as chreoasthetosis or astasia was accompanied. No structural disorder was demonstrated. A lower dose of valproic acid (200 to 500 mg/D) is required to stop the myoclonic seizure. Conclusions: Mutations of the GABRA1 gene, CACNB4 gene and CLCN2 gene have been described in the autosomal dominance inheritance patterns of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (range, 10 to 20 years). Late-adult onset of myoclonic epilepsy is not a recognized epileptic syndrome. This is a distinct familial epileptic syndrome different from recognized myoclonic epilepsies in infancy and early childhood, or myoclonias and absences in childhood and adolescence. 1 Kerry L. Hulsing, 1 Linda Selwa, and 1 Karuna Mandava ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Employment status is a significant issue for people with epilepsy. Employment has been described as an important factor in their quality of life, yet high unemployment rates have been previously reported. The purpose of this study was to investigate employment status and factors associated with employment in patients with refractory epilepsy. Methods: Data were collected from 44 adult epilepsy patients undergoing evaluation for epilepsy surgery at the University of Michigan. Data was obtained via self-completed questionaire and from the patient's medical record. Students were excluded. Results: The unemployment rate in this population was 72%. Overall quality of life was rated higher in the employed group, but did not reach statistical significance. There was not a significant difference in age of onset of seizures or seizure frequency between the employed and unemployed. Those that were employed had attained a higher level of education on average, with 40% having a college degree, compared to 11% in the unemployed population. The importance of employment to quality of life was rated highly, with 75% of the population reporting it as very important. 17% of the population reported that they continued to drive. Lack of seizure control was ranked as the primary variable hindering employment by 96% of the unemployed. Driving status alone had the highest odds of predicting employment status (p = 0.001). Conclusions: Employment status is an important quality of life issue for people with epilepsy, yet the unemployment rate in those with medically refractory epilepsy is much higher than that of the general population. Awareness of this issue may be helpful to epileptologists in caring for this patient population. 1 Jaromir Janousek, 1 Arkady Barber, and 1 Pavel Klein ( 1 Epilepsy, Mid-Atlantic Epilepsy and Sleep Center, Bethesda, MD ) Rationale: Estrogens are generally thought to have a proconvulsant effect.In animals, estrogens activate spike discharges and lower seizure threshold. In humans, catamenial seizure exacerbation at the time of ovulation has been suggested to be due to a peri-ovulatory surge of serum estradiol level (Herzog AG et al., Epilepsia 1997). In the only such study in humans, intravenous administration of conjugated estrogens (premarin) was reported to activate epileptiform discharges and seizures in some women with epilepsy (Logothesis J, et al., Neurol 1959). More recently, oral administration of premarin in perimenopausal women with epilepsy indicated dose-related seizure exacerbation with premarin (Harden C, et al., Epilepsia 2004). The purpose of this study was to determine whether the reported proconvulsant effect of estrogens could be used to activate seizures in women with epilepsy undergoing EEG monitoring for pre-surgical work up. Methods: Women of reproductive age with medically refractory localization related epilepsy (LRE) were evaluated. Subjects undergoing in-patient long term video-scalp EEG (LTVEEG) monitoring were injected with 10 mg premarin i.v. at 8 am during the first or second day of monitoring, before AED discontinuation. No changes in AEDs were made for 24 hours after premarin injection. In two subjects, a second injection of 50 mg was given 24 hours after the 10 mg injection. All subjects had been evaluated for presence of catamenial seizure exacerbation using both subjects' subjective impression and previously described criteria (Herzog AG et al., Ann Neurol 2004). Serum levels of estradiol, estrone and progesterone were measured immediately before and 1 and 2 hours after premarin injection. EEG was recorded continuously and stored for manual and automated spike and seizure analysis. EEG was analysed for spike and seizure frequency using 30 minute bins during 12 hours before and 24 hours after the injection. Results: 6 women (age range 23?45) were evaluated. 4 women had subjective impression of catamenial seizure exacerbation, (3 Type I, perimenstrual exacerbation, 1 Type 1 and 2, perimenstrual and periovulatory exacerbation), but this could be confirmed with prospective seizure diary documentation in only 1. 4 subjects had TLE (left, n = 2; right, n = 1; bitemporal, n = 1), 2 had extratemporal LRE. 0/6 women had a seizure during 24 hours after premarin injection with either 10 mg (n = 6) or 50 mg (n = 2 of the initial 6). There was no change in interictal spike frequency following premarin injection, including absence of spikes for 24 hours after premarin injection in 2 women. Conclusions: Intravenous injection of conjugated estrogens did not activate ictal or interictal epileptiform activity in this small study of women with medically refractory epilepsy. Estrogen injection may not be a useful activating procedure in these patients. A larger study is needed to confirm these preliminary findings. 1 Sigmund Jenssen, 1 Eve Khlyavich, and 1 Jyoti Pillai ( 1 Neurology, Drexel Medical College, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Some patients whose seizures routinely is preceded by an aura claim they are able at times to delay or abort the seizure. It is unclear if this subjective experience is real or if the experience somehow is caused by the seizure itself. We wanted to explore if there is any relationship between this claim and seizure type, the presumed seizure focus and the aura. Methods: After approval by IRB was obtained patients answered a questionnaire in the presence of the doctor and their charts were reviewed. Only patients with verified epilepsy were included and all had to have a reliable aura. We correlated the claim of influence over seizures with the epileptic focus according to EEG and/or brain MRI, duration and quality of aura and presence of generalized tonic-clonic seizures using Chi Square. Results: 65 patients were included. Mean age was 45 years (range 20 to 70) of which 20 were males. 28 patients (43%) reported that they some times could delay or abort seizures voluntarily. The methods included directing the thought content (20 patients), moving the body (16 patients) or stimulating the body (14 patients). More patients who reported some influence had extratemporal focus (p < 0.001). No correlation was found with type and duration of aura or presence of generalized tonic clonic seizures. Conclusions: A substantial portion of patients who have seizures with aura claim they are able to influence the progression of their seizures. This claim was more common among patients with extratemporal focus. A possible explanation could be that afferent inputs into the cerebral cortex exert an inhibitory effect thereby delaying the propagation of an exitatory epileptic focus. Further research may provide insight into the mechanisms that may underlie this phenomenon. 1 Barbara C. Jobst, 1 Karen L. Gilbert, 1 Vijay M. Thadani, and 1 Gregory L. Holmes ( 1 Section of Neurology, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH ) Rationale: Pregnancy registries are increasingly established to correlate malformation rate with use of AEDs in women with epilepsy. Other seizure and AED related problems remain unanswered in the treatment of epileptic pregnant women. Seizures during pregnancy are assumed to be detrimental, but significantly increased adverse outcomes have not been systematically studied. Methods: Retrospective review of 35 pregnancies that were followed in a highly specialized pregnancy and seizure clinic in an academic institution. Seizure occurrence, complication rate, abortion rate, malformation rate, preconceptive counseling and AED adjustments and levels were recorded during pregnancy. Results: Of 35 pregnancies in 34 women, there were 22 deliveries, one first-trimester abortion and one 20-week abortion due to severe neural tube defect in a pregnancy on lamotrigine monotherapy (LTG). 11 women have not delivered yet. There were 2/35 (5.7%) true malformations (neural tube defect, craniosynostosis) and 11/33 viable pregnancies were complicated by other than seizures (oliohydramion/low birth weight in three, rash due to AEDs in three, HELLP syndrome, bleeding, severe migraines, prematurity). 23 of 35 (65%) of all and 14 of 22 (63%) of completed pregnancies were complicated by seizures. This reflects the specialized referral pattern. Seizure occurred equally in the first, second or third trimester (p > 0.05). Of the six pregnancies with malformations, prematurity or low birth weight, four had seizures during pregnancy, two had generalized tonic-clonic convulsions (GTC). Overall 7/35 (20%) pregnancies were complicated by GTCs with two off-spring related complications (low-birth weight and neural tube defect). Only one patient had seizures during delivery (4.5%). Three previously well controlled patients had reoccurrence of myoclonic seizures when switched to lamotrigine monotherapy prepregnancy. In 17/35 (48.5%) of pregnancies, AEDs needed to be changed either due to seizure exacerbation, side effects or decreasing levels. LTG (n = 10) required regular adjustment of dosing due to decreasing levels, carbamazepine, valproic acid, phenytoin, levetiracetam and topiramate levels were more stable. Data on oxcarbazepine was insufficient. Three patients had their first seizure during pregnancy and all of those patients were not treated with AEDs. 12 (34.2%) of patients underwent prepregnancy counseling. Conclusions: Management of seizures during pregnancy remains challenging. The impact of seizures in pregnancies with or without AEDs needs to be studied in larger studies. Systematic investigation of AED adjustments during pregnancy is required to assess utility. Myoclonic epilepsies treated with LTG alone can be problematic in pregnancy. Specialized clinics can increase preconceptive intervention and improve AED management. 1 Luydmila Jovine, 1 Blagovest Nikolov, 1 Douglas Labar, 2 Stephen Ferrando, 1 Padmaja Kandula, 1 Sona Narula, and 1 Cynthia Harden ( 1 Neurology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ; and 2 Psychiatry, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ) Rationale: Patients with non-epileptic psychogenic seizures (NES) frequently have affective disorders, anxiety disorders and personality disorders. Further, the presence of personality disorders in NES patients is associated with intractability. However, the personality disorders of NES patients that impair coping skills and contribute to the occurrence of NES are not fully understood. We sought to determine the type of personality disorders associated with NES patients compared to epilepsy patients by prospectively evaluating adult patients admitted for video-EEG. Methods: Consecutive adult patients admitted to the hospital for video-EEG monitoring found to have NES were studied; the epilepsy comparator group was derived using a simultaneously admitted patient with findings on video-EEG confirming the diagnosis of epilepsy. No patients who had findings of both disorders on video-EEG were studied. Patients who could communicate in English and without significant cognitive impairment were included. Personality was assessed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Personality Disorders. Personality disorders were then divided into personality clusters described in the DSM-IV, which are based on functional status: A (paranoid, schizotypal, schizoid), B (borderline, histrionic, antisocial, narcissistic) or C (avoidant, dependent, obsessive-compulsive). Results: Sixteen NES subjects were studied, 15 were women. Sixteen epilepsy subjects were studied, 10 were women. Three subjects in the NES group had no personality disorder, compared to four in the epilepsy group. Twelve subjects in the NES group met criteria for either Cluster A or B type personality disorders, or both, compared to six in the epilepsy group. However, only one NES patient met criteria for Cluster C personality disorder, compared to six in the epilepsy group. The distribution of having a Cluster A and/or B personality disorder compared to Cluster C or no personality disorder was significantly different between NES and epilepsy groups (chi-square p = 0.03). Conclusions: NES patients are more likely meet criteria for a personality disorder that is more dysfunctional, in the Cluster A or B group, compared to epilepsy patients, who are more likely to have Cluster C personality disorders, predominantly obsessive-compulsive and avoidant. We suggest that the Cluster A or B personality features contribute to the occurrence of NES, while Cluster C behaviors in epilepsy patients may be in part a reaction to the experience of having chronic recurrent seizures. 1 Eleanor B. Justen, 1 Glenn Catalano, and 1 William O. Tatum IV ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, UMDNJ-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, NJ; Department of Psychiatry, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL; and Department of Neurology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL ) Rationale: Psychiatric profiles of patients with PNES have been described. Limited comparison exists between historical self-reported psychiatric profiles with formal in-patient assessment. We compared patient self-reported psychiatric diagnosis with formal in-patient psychiatric evaluations preformed at the time of PNES diagnosis. Methods: Twenty six patients with confirmed PNES by inpatient VEEG done at a tertiary care epilepsy center were reviewed. The patients demographic information, history of headaches, suicide attempts, history of abuse, insomnia, chronic pain, self reported psychiatric problems, psychiatric medications, Anti-epileptic drugs, and psychiatric evaluation were collected and compared. Axis I diagnosis was made according to DSM-IV TR criteria. Statistical comparison was done looking at relative frequency of symptoms. The number of patients that self reported depression was compared to the number of patients to receive an Axis I diagnosis using the Mann-Whitney test. Data is reported as median (mean ± SD). Results: The patients were 42.3% males and had a median age of 43.5 years (40.4 ± 15.5). Only 19 of 26 patient received formal psychiatric evaluations while in hospital. Of the 19 patients, 89.5% had self reported mood disorder compared to 84.2% that received a formal inpatient Axis I diagnosis showing no statistical difference (p = 0.783). 76.9% of all patients self reported a history of psychiatric symptoms. Vegetative symptoms such as headaches and insomnia were reported in 73% and 58% respectively. Seven patients (27%) reported suicide attempts in their lifetime. 18 of the 26 (69%) were already taking SSRIs at the time of evaluation, with 53.8% having been exposed to multiple psychiatric medications. Only 4% required altered medications during their hospitalization. Conclusions: We conclude that self-reported psychiatric diagnoses are concordant with psychiatric evaluation in patient PNES diagnoses. The majority of PNES patients were currently taking psychotropic medication at the time of in-patient diagnosis, and required no modification following formal psychiatric evaluation. The primary focus for ongoing psychiatric treatment in PNES patient should be provided on an outpatient basis. 3 Buchwaldt Fredrik, 2 Jan-Anders Ahnlide, 2 Ingmar Rosén, and 1 Kristina Källén ( 1 Neurology, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden ; 2 Clinical Neurophysiology, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden ; and 3 Neurology, University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden ) Rationale: To assess the additional value of subtraction ictal SPECT co-registrated to MRI (SISCOM) for localisation of the epileptogenic zone in epilepsy surgery. Methods: We retrospectively analyzed 49 consecutive epilepsy patients who had undergone invasive monitoring between January 2000 and Mars 2006 and had presurgical examination with high resolution 1.5T MRI or higher field strength. Attempts for ictal SPECT as part of the pre-surgical work-up was made for 29 patients, two patients had no seizures during ictal SPECT preparedness, SISCOM analysis showed areas with significant hyperperfusions in 26 patients. By SISCOM analysis interictal and ictal images were normalized, subtracted and coregistered with MRI. The standard deviation of the ictal hyperperfusion was measured in each hemisphere and the hemisphere with the least standard deviation was used as reference. Hyperperfusions exceeding 3.5 SD were considered significant. Two independent epileptologists evaluated if SISCOM results (A) altered the hypothesis and extended the strategy for electrode placement at invasive recording, or (B) did not alter the strategy. We defined that SISCOM had an impact on seizure outcome if the seizure onset zone was seen in electrodes overlying a brain region with a significant hyperperfusion. Engel class I-II was considered favorable outcome at one-year postoperative follow-up. SISCOM was considered a prerequisite for favorable outcome when concordant with invasive ictal onset in extended electrodes. Results: Twenty-six patients were offered surgery; 20 had localizing data from SISCOM and > 1 y follow-up whereof 40% had favorable outcome. A. SISCOM findings were complementary to other localizing non-invasive findings and altered and extended the strategy for electrode placement at invasive recording in 15 patients. SISCOM was a prerequisite for seizure outcome in all 6 patients with favorable outcome. Nine patients had poor results from surgery; SISCOM was concordant with invasive EEG in 6 patients, and discordant with invasive EEG with no impact on outcome in 3 patients. B. SISCOM findings did not change the hypothesis for electrode placement at invasive recording in 5 patients, but SISCOM was confirmatory with other localizing data in the 2 patients with favorable outcome. Three patients had poor results from surgery; SISCOM was concordant with invasive EEG in 1 patient, and discordant with invasive EEG and with no impact on results in 2 patients. When SISCOM was concordant with invasive EEG the predictive value for favorable outcome was 53%. Conclusions: SISCOM is valuable for the identification of the epileptogenic zone in patients with drug resistant epilepsy scheduled for invasive video-EEG. In all patients with favorable seizure outcome at one year follow-up SISCOM analysis was either a prerequisite for the favorable result or concordant with other localizing data. 1,2 Maria Kaartinen, 3 Anna-Maija Haapala, 5 Markku Maki, 4 Jani Raitanen, 1 Tapani Keranen, 6 Katri Kaukinen, and 1 Jukka Peltola ( 1 Department of Neurology and Rehabilitation, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, Finland ; 2 Medical School, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland ; 3 Department of Clinical Microbiology, Center for Laboratory Medicine, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, Finland ; 4 School of Public Health, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland ; 5 Department of Pediatrics, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, Finland ; and 6 Department of Gastroenterology and Alimentary Tract Surgery, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, Finland ) Rationale: Previously, several studies have shown an increased prevalence of antiphospholipid (aPL) and anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies in patients with refractory localization-related epilepsy (RLRE). Gliadin antibodies (AGA) have been associated with brain pathology, most commonly in patients with cerebellar degeneration. We have recently described an association between AGA antibodies, gluten sensitivity and temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis. The first objective of the present study is to compare the frequencies of aPL or GAD antibodies in epilepsy patients with and without AGA. The secondary objective is to compare the frequencies of celiac disease (CD) related antibodies between RLRE and generalized epilepsy (GE). Methods: We measured CD related antibodies [AGA, anti-tissue transglutaminase and anti-endomysium antibodies] in 50 consecutive patients with GE syndromes and 48 consecutive patients with RLRE. The frequencies of aPL and GAD antibodies have been reported previously. Results: Patients with AGA-positivity had a greater prevalence of aPL antibodies and GAD-antibodies. IgG-class AGA were significantly associated with GAD-antibodies (p = 0,042) and IgG-class aPL (p = 0,018). IgA-class AGA were associated with IgG-class aPL (p = 0,029). 50% of the patients with IgG-class AGA harbour also IgG-class aPL, which is five times more than in AGA-negative patients. In patients with IgG-class AGA-positivity 33% (nine times more common than in AGA-negative patients) had also antibodies against GAD. In multiple regression analysis, age, sex, and duration of epilepsy were not associated with the prevalence of antibodies in patients with AGA-positivity. The frequencies of all measured antibodies were higher in RLRE compared with GE except with AGA-antibodies, which were more common in GE group. Conclusions: In the present study we demonstrated that both aPL antibodies and GAD antibodies were strongly associated with AGA. The co-expression of CD related autoantibodies and anti-GAD autoantibodies is of special interest, because increased expression of various autoantibodies including anti-GAD autoantibodies has been reported in patients with CD and moreover, in patients with cerebellar degeneration and AGA. This study provides additional evidence of immunological activation in epilepsy: sensitivity to dietary gluten may explain partly the presence of antineuronal antibodies such as aPL and GAD. 1 Joong Koo Kang, 1 Eun Mi Lee, 2 Jung Kyo Lee, 2 Seok Ho Hong, and 1 Sang Ahm Lee ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Although all patterns and frequencies of seizure onset were recorded in both temporal and extratemporal locations, some specific ictal patterns during intracranial recordings may help to predict surgical outcome. The purpose of this study is to compare the intracranial ictal EEG (ictal EEG) patterns in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) to find the ictal patterns suggesting good surgical outcome. Methods: We analyzed total 128 seizures in 33 TLE patient underwent invasive intracranial study using bilateral temporal depth and subdural electrodes. Of the 33 patents, 26 were underwent temporal lobectmy with amygdallohippocampectomy, in whom 21 were ?seizure-free? and 5 were ?not seizure-free? with minimum 1 year follow-up. Seven were not operated. We divided the patients into 3 groups as ?seizure-free?, ?not seizure-free? and ?non-operation?. We analyzed each ictal EEG charicteristics based on presence or absence of peri-ictal discharges, ictal distribution, involved number of electrodes, waveform pattern, onset frequency and interhemispheric propagation time (IHPT). Statistical analysis used chai-squre, Fisher's exact test and ANOVA test using SPSS 12.0 version. Results: There are no differences in dermographic data including sex, onset age, duration of epilepsy, risk factor and hippocampal atrophy on MRI among 3 groups. But all analyzed ictal EEG charicteristics have statistically significant difference among 3 groups. The presence of peri-ictal discharges was exclusively observed in ?seizure-free?. The lesser number of involved elcetrodes with ictal distribution of ?depth only? or ?depth and medial strip electrode? were associated with ?seizure-free? but ?non-operation? had spatially wider distribution of ictal onset involving ?diffuse strip and depth? or ?strip only?. Higher onset frequency above beta range more correlated to ?seizure-free? while slow onset frequency lesser than alpha in others. Ictal onset patterns with fast spike trains were exclusively observed in ?seizure-free?, whereas pattern with rhythmic activity was common in ?not-seizure-free? and ?non-operation?. IHPT was 22. 46 ± 19.44 seconds(s) in ?seizure-free?, 18.56 ± 16.74 s in ?not seizure-free?, but 5.96 ± 8.04 s in ?non-operation. IHPT was signifiantly shorter in ?non-operation?. Conclusions: Intracranial ictal EEG patterns are significantly different among ?seizure-free?,??not seizure-free? and ?non-operation?. These findings suggest that analysis of ictal EEG patterns help to predict surgical outcome. 1 Makoto Kawai, 2 Daniel Yoshor, 1 Ian L. Goldsmith, and 1 Amit Verma ( 1 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) has been reported to improve daytime sleepiness in patients with epilepsy when measured at 3 months post-treatment, however the long term effects of VNS on excessive sleepiness are unknown. To assess whether VNS results in sustained and clinically relevant improvements in excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS), we measured patients' daytime sleepiness levels before and after the use of VNS. Methods: Patients seen by a single epileptologist (AV) in the Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center completed questionnaires for the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) prior to beginning VNS and at periodic intervals thereafter. The ESS is a standardized and validated scale used to assess sleepiness. A score of greater than 10 is indicative of excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS). To determine if VNS results in a clinically significant improvement in daytime functioning, we examined the effect of VNS on sleepiness in patients who suffered from EDS prior to VNS. Only improvements in the ESS to levels less than 10 were considered clinically meaningful. Medication dosage and seizure frequency were evaluated to determine if they influenced ESS scores. Results: Eighteen consecutive patients with refractory epilepsy who underwent implantation of a vagus nerve stimulator were asked to participate in this study and 14 complied. The mean age of patients who participated in the study was 32 years (range 17?63; Male:5, Female:9). Mean follow-up period was 13 months (range 3?32 months). The mean pre-implantation ESS score for all enrolled patients was 11.8. The mean post-implantation scores at approximately 3 months, 6 months and 12 months were 9.8, 9.6 and 10.1 respectively. Eight of the 14 patients had pre-implantation EDS (ESS score greater than 10). Of these eight EDS patients, four never exhibited meaningful improvement in their ESS at any time-point after VNS was initiated, while two had transient improvements and only two had sustained improvement at last follow-up. This could not be explained by medication changes or changes in seizure frequency. Conclusions: VNS may reduce daytime sleepiness in patients with epilepsy. The effects in our patients were not as robust as have been previously reported and the effects may also not be sustained. (Supported by Peter Kellaway, PhD Foundation for Research. We would like to thank Elizabeth Miae Kim for her help with data collection.) 1 Sung Eun Kim, 1 Min Ah Kim, and 1 Kang Min Park ( 1 Neurology, Busan Paik Hospital, Busan, Korea ) Rationale: Although seizures are important neurological manifestations or complications of CNS infection, there have been only a few studies. The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence, etiology, and clinical factors to predict acute symptomatic seizures with CNS infections. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients with CNS infections from 2000 to 2005. We excluded patients with brain abscess, neurocysticercosis, and undetermined CNS infections, and 147 patients were finally included for this study. The clinical variables were analyzed between with and without acute symptomatic seizures. Results: Of 147 patients, 23.2% (34/147) had acute symptomatic seizures. Univariate analysis revealed a significant relation between clinical variables and occurrence of acute symptomatic seizure; encephalitis as etiology of CNS infection [73.5%(25/34) vs 16.8%(19/113), p < 0.0001 by X2 test], Glasgow coma scale (GCS) ≤ 12 at admission [73.5% (25/34) vs 28.3% (32/113), p < 0.0001 by X2 test], GCS ≤ 14 at discharge [44.1% (15/34) vs 18.6% (21/113), p = 0.005 by X2 test] and abnormal neurologic examination at discharge [44.1%(15/34) vs 22.1% (25/113), p = 0.02 by X2 test]. By multivariate analysis, age of onset > 42 years {OR 4.4, [95% CI (1.26?15.66)], p = 0.02}, encephalitis {OR 13.9, [95% CI (4.60?42.25)], p < 0.0001}, and GCS ≤12 at admission {OR 10.3, [95% CI (3.12?34.28)], p = 0.0001} were still significant clinical variables to predict the occurrence of acute symptomatic seizures. Conclusions: Encephalitis and GCS ≤12 at admission are the significant clinical variables to predict the occurrence of acute symptomatic seizures in CNS infection, suggesting that the more parenchymal damaged, the more vulnerable to acute symptomatic seizures occur. 1 Beth Korby, 1 Gerald L. Moriarty, 1 Deanna L. Dickens, 1 El-Hadi Mouderres, and 1 Patricia E. Penovich ( 1 Minnesota Epilepsy Group, PA, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, PA, St. Paul, MN ) Rationale: Young women with epilepsy are eager to enjoy full productive lives including bearing children. There has long been a fear regarding the effect of the pregnancy on seizures and the effect of epilepsy and its treatment on the fetus/infant. Over the last five years numerous registries have been developed within the USA and globally to evaluate the effects of AEDs on pregnancy outcomes (North American Registry, EURAP, Australian and UK Registries). We evaluated our pregnancy outcomes before and after the approval of the new AEDs. Methods: Questionnaires were sent to women in our practice who were pregnant between 1995 and the present. Questions and information were given in written format and by telephone communication. Women who wished to participate signed consents and returned the information in pre-stamped return packets. Also included was a self-addressed, prepaid envelope to receive a complete report from the authors when the project is finished. Questions regarding all pregnancies were asked including age, folate use, AED use, seizures during pregnancy, delivery type, any birth/delivery complications, fetal loss, ultrasound results, and developmental status of the child with each pregnancy. For this study, ?old AEDs? were defined as those approved prior to 1990 and ?new AEDs? were those approved after 1990. Results: 98 questionnaires were sent out 38% have been returned thus far. 24 patients have reported information on 32 pregnancies, one with twins. 16 babies (48%) were exposed to old AEDs, 13 (39%) to new AEDs; 4 to polytherapy with old AEDs (12%). AEDs were CBZ 30%, PB 3%, PHT 3%, VPA 3%, GBP 3%, LTG 15%, LEV 12%, OXC 3%, TPM 3%. Polytherapy was PB + VPA in 2, CBZ + LTG in 1, CBZ + PB in 1. There were 29 (88%) live births. Chromosomal abnormalities were present in 2 of 4 unsuccessful pregnancies: 1 tubal (CBZ + PB), 1 stillbirth (CBZ), and 2 miscarriages (CBZ, LEV)). 13 women had seizures at some time during pregnancy: 3 had a single GTC, 8 had CPS ± SPS, 2 had only SPS. There were no cases of status. There were no major congenital abnormalities. Folate was supplemented in 62% of live births at doses between 1?4 mg/day. There were 8 (28%) abnormal outcomes in the live birth group defined as delayed development for speech or motor milestones, requiring therapy and special programming. All abnormal outcomes were seen in mothers on monotherapy and occurred with folate supplementation: 5 (62%) were with old AEDs and 3 (37%) were with new AEDs: 3 with CBZ, 3 with LTG, 1 with PB, 1 with VPA. Conclusions: Women with epilepsy can have successful pregnancies without fear of major malformations. More subtle developmental delays and need for early special services and therapy for the child may be more prevalent than previously recognized with both old and new AEDs. Awareness of this potential concern may direct a choice in AED(s), as well as allow the parents to advocate for the child earlier. 1 Vitaliy Koss, 1 Peyman Andalib, 1 Sigmund Jenssen, and 1 Jyoti Pillai ( 1 Neurology, Drexel Medical College Hahnemann University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: The elderly in United States are representing a greater percentage of the general population than before. This age group has increased risk of developing epilepsy as compared to those who are younger. Previous reports indicate that in this age group the clinical presentation of new onset epilepsy is frequently varied and obvious epileptic seizures are sometimes not reported. Epileptiform activity in the EEG (EA) is highly specific for epilepsy when acute symptomatic conditions and PLEDS are excluded. Methods: We reviewed chief complaint (CC) and EEG findings in patients minimum 65 years old with EA referred to the neurophysiology laboratory at Hahnemann University Hospital between October 2004 and April 2006 for possible new onset seizures. We compared them to control group (patients younger then 65 years). Patients with known additional acute CNS event, PLEDS, recent medication change, severe metabolic derangement or prior history of epilepsy were excluded. Results: See Table for results. Fall, electrographic diffuse slowing, organic brain syndrome and medical comorbidities was more frequent (p < 0.05) in the elderly group, while there was a trend (p < 0.10) of confusion and temporal lobe spikes to be more frequent in this group as compared to controls. Conclusions: Fall, confusion, diffuse slowing in the EEG and temporal lobe spikes are more common with onset of epilepsy in the elderly compared to younger adults. Organic brain syndrome and medical comorbidities are also more common. Results Elderly Control N 47 42 Mean Age 79 47 (66?95) (23?63) Cheif Complaint Confusion 19 ?9 Fall 10 ?1 ?Seizure? 10 11 Loss of Consciousness ?8 13 Memory Loss ?3 ?5 Dizziness ?2 ?5 Miscellaneous ?5 ?3 Organic Brain Condition 25 13 Medical Comorbidity 35 14 EEG Temporal Lobe Spikes 39 28 Extra-Temporal Spikes 16 17 Diffuse Slowing 20 ?9 Seizure Activity ?5 ?3 1 Katia Lin, 2 Henrique Carrete Jr., 1 Jaime Lin, 1 Luis Otavio S.F. Caboclo, 1 Pedro Alessandro L. Oliveira, 1 Americo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Elza Marcia T. Yacubian ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Uuniversidade Federal de Sao Paulo (UNIFESP/EPM), Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ; and 2 Departamento de Diagnóstico Por Imagem, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo (UNIFESP/EPM), Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ) Rationale: Unilateral facial paresis has been observed in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. We aimed to assess the frequency and significance of this clinical sign in a well-defined cohort of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) patients. Methods: One hundred consecutive patients with MRI findings consistent with mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) and concordant electroclinical data underwent facial motor examination at rest, with voluntary expression and spontaneous smiling. Hippocampal, amygdaloid and temporal pole volumetric measures were acquired in these exams. Thirty healthy subjects, matched through age and sex, were taken as controls. Results: Facial paresis was found in 46 patients. In 41 (89.13%) of them it was visualized at rest, with voluntary and emotional expression, characterizing true facial motor paresis (FP). In 33/46 (71.74%) patients, FP was contralateral to the side of MTS. There was no correlation between presence and lateralization of FP and neither hippocampal, amygdaloid nor temporal pole volumes. Simple febrile seizures as initial precipitating injury (IPI) were observed in 11 (68.75%) of patients without FP while complex febrile seizures occurred in 12 (70.59%) of patients with FP (p = 0.03). Also, presence of FP was positively associated with age of onset of secondary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (SGTCS) and their duration. Conclusions: FP is useful as a clinical sign with lateralizing value in MTLE and was significantly associated with history of complex febrile seizures as IPI and a longer duration of GTCS, indicating probably more widespread disease. (Supported by FAPESP, CAPES/CNPq.) 1 Lucretia Long, and 1 Holly Helfant ( 1 Neurology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH; and Neurology/Neurosurgery, Mount Carmel, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Clinical and developmental outcomes in the offspring of pregnant women with epilepsy taking novel anticonvulsants are unknown. Although researchers continue to accrue data through pregnancy registries, practitioner's caring for women of childbearing age may benefit from preliminary data. This case series summarizes the clinical and developmental outcomes in five offspring of women with epilepsy, all of whom took levetiracetam monotherapy during pregnancy. Offspring ages range from 4 months to 4 years. Methods: A retrospective chart review from maternal and pediatric medical records regarding clinical outcomes in the offspring of women taking levetiracetam monotherapy was conducted. Developmental, cognitive and physical milestone data were collected. Maternal information included gestational seizure frequency, serum concentration levels and other relevant data. Results: Developmental milestones in five offspring of pregnant women with epilepsy taking levetiracetam monotherapy were reported. The women with epilepsy were seizure free during pregnancy. Maternal serum concentrations were therapeutic. All women took folic acid preconception and throughout their pregnancy. Data analysis revealed no cognitive or developmental abnormalities. Two siblings were diagnosed with cryptorchidism. No malignancies or additional physical or cognitive abnormalities were noted. No major or minor birth defects were recorded. Conclusions: This case series provides preliminary data. Due to the retrospective nature and small sample size, caution should be taken when interpreting the above outcomes. While future prospective studies with an adequate sample are mandatory, this case series may be encouraging for those seeking preliminary data on developmental outcomes in the offspring of pregnant women with epilepsy taking levetiracetam. 1,2,3 Morten I. Lossius, 4 Jan E. Erikssen, 5 Petter Mowinckel, and 6 Leif Gjerstad ( 1 Research and Education, National Centre for Epilepsy Rikshospitalet, Sandvika, Norway ; 2 Helse ?st Health Services Centre, Akershus University Hospital, Lorenskog, Norway ; 3 Department of Neurology, Akershus University Hospital, Lorenskog, Norway ; 4 Department of Preventive Medicine, Akershus University Hospital, Lorenskog, Norway ; 5 Department of Paediatrics, Division Woman and Child, Ulleval University Hospital, Oslo, Norway ; and 6 Department of Neurology, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, Norway ) Rationale: Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) may be related to impaired autonomic cardiac control. The cause of such impairment is not known: is it the specific type of epilepsy, ictal or interictal epileptiform discharges or the treatment with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs)? The aim of our study was to assess heart rate variability (HRV) by spectral analysis in patients with epilepsy before and after withdrawal of AEDs. Methods: The study was a prospective randomised and double blinded withdrawal study of seizure free patients on AED monotherapy. 24 h ambulatory ECG was performed before AED withdrawal and 4 months after withdrawal. Mean of the standard deviation of all filtered RR intervals for all 5 minute segments of the analyses (SDNN-i) and different power analysis were studied. Results: HRV at the baseline did not differ significantly between the withdrawal group (n = 57) and the non-withdrawal (n = 69). The SDNN-i in the withdrawal group improved significantly in patients < 45 years (6.2ms, p = 0.05). Apart from high frequency power the other power variables also increased after withdrawal, but not to a statistically significant extent. The heart rate variability decreased with age in both groups, but less in the withdrawal group. Interictal epileptiform activity did not significantly influence the heart rate variability. Conclusions: We found a significant increase in SDNN-i in the patients below 45 years after AED withdrawal. This indicates a potential positive effect of AED-withdrawal in this age group. This finding may be important in understanding the pathophysiology of SUDEP which occurs most frequently in the age group 20- 45 years. (Supported by Norwegian Foundation for Health and Rehabilitation (EXTRA FUND), The Norwegian Epilepsy-association and The Norwegian Chapter of the International League Against Epilepsy.) 1 Edward H. Maa, and 1 Mark C. Spitz ( 1 Neurology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ) Rationale: Twenty million people vacation in the American Rockies and Sierras annually. The physiologic consequences of transient environmental hypoxia have been responsible for everything from poor sleep to pulmonary edema. And on occasion, a first-time seizure or worsening of well controlled epilepsy erupts in this setting. Epidemiologic data for high altitude seizures at the moderate altitudes (>8000 ft) of our American resort towns does not exist. Methods: A retrospective chart review examining the risk factors in subjects with new or worsening seizures upon arrival to the moderate altitudes of Colorado resort towns was performed. Electronic records from Summit County Emergency Department (a cachement area including Breckenridge, Arapahoe Basin, and Keystone ski resorts) were reviewed from January 2001 to October 2005 for the ICD9 diagnosis codes for seizures and epilepsy. Results: A total of 64 individual subjects suffered one or more seizures, 28 (43%) of which occurred in subjects visiting from elevations less than 8000 ft. Sixteen of the 28 (57%) subjects from lower elevations had an average POx reading of 82.6%. Twelve of the 36 (33%) subjects from Summit County averaged POx of 87.3%. Alcohol abuse was noted in 3/28 low elevation subjects and 6/36 Summit County subjects. Headaches, sleep disturbances, and tachycardia at presentation were more frequent in low elevation subjects. CT abnormalities were seen more frequently in Summit County subjects and more commonly associated with EtOH abuse. Newly found CT lesions in low elevation subjects without a history of prior seizure was not seen. CXR abnormalities were seen in 2/28 low elevation subjects and 1/36 Summit County subjects. Electrolyte disturbances, infections, and pharmaco-nonadherence did not appear to show any differences between the two groups. Conclusions: Subjects who experienced new or worsening seizures, from elevations less than 8000 ft, were more likely to show signs of hypoxia-related physiologic changes. Compared with subjects from elevations of 8000 ft or greater, these subjects demonstrated lower average oxygen saturations, increased tachycardia, and more sleep disturbances and headaches. Transient exposure to hypobaric hypoxia is suspected of altering cerebral physiology in such a way as to increase the risk of developing a seizure. Mechanisms are yet unknown, and further research, including a prospective collection of epidemiologic data is required. 1 Debra MacGarvie, 1 Nina Politzer, 1 Mary Pat MacAndrews, and 1 Martin Del Campo ( 1 Epilepsy Clinic, University Health Network, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: The purpose of this study is to determine if dietary intervention can be an effective and sustainable method of seizure reduction when used in addition to standard drug therapy. The ketogenic diet (KD)has been used in children with varying degrees of success; however, the diet has been very difficult for adults to follow due its unpalatable nature. The Atkins Diet (AD) which like the (KD), achieves a state of ketosis may be an alternative. Methods: Patients with pharmacoresistant epilepsy were randomized into one of two treatment groups- either basic or intensive dietary counselling and initiated with a 20 gram carbohydrate diet. Menu plans and AD guidelines were provided. A control group was aged-matched to groups 1 and 2 and consisted of patients who were unable to follow the AD. Patients were assessed by dietitian, physician, psychologist and nurse. Cholesterol, triglicerides and fasting blood sugar were measured at baseline and at 6 months. Food intake records, ketosis, weight and Body Mass Index (BMI) were evaluated. Various aspects of seizure quality were collected, including seizure frequency, severity and recovery time. In addition, we measured cognitive status and health-related quality oif life (QOLIE-31). Results: Seven patients in the treatment groups have completed 6 months on the AD. All patients completed food records that showed 90% compliance with diet and acceptable caloric intake. All patients who had BMI over 30 achieved a healthier BMI of under 30. Cholesterol and trigliceride levels remained in acceptable ranges. All patients achieved ketosis. More than half reported a reduction in seizure intensity as well as a shorter recovery time after a seizure. There was a moderate improvement in attention and learning efficiency, both below average at baseline and at the six month follow-up, but no change in quality of life ratings. Conclusions: The AD can achieve sustainable ketosis over time. The great majority of patients showed acceptable compliance. Fifty percent of the cohort studied showed worthwhile improvement in their seizure disorder. Although results are preliminary given the small sample completing the protocol at this point, they suggest the AD may be a useful adjunct in the treatment of refractory epilepsy. 1 Fumisuke Matsuo ( 1 Neurology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT ) Rationale: Epilepsy is defined by unprovoked recurrences of epileptic seizures, but its natural history varies widely. Even within the same epilepsy syndrome, some patients will remit and can discontinue AED (antiepileptic drug) treatment, while others will prove refractory. Prompt control of seizure recurrences has been recognized as the most significant predictor of remission, but some can enjoy clinical seizure control, only when AED prophylaxis is continued. The latter group of patients is not well characterized, even though they benefit most from the epileptologist's expertise. Methods: The author's epileptology practice data were reviewed for patients with the following characteristics: 1) follow-up record spanning a period longer than 10 years, 2) the diagnosis of epilepsy has been based not only on clinical semiology, often confirmed by EEG findings, but also on sporadic clinical recurrences, when AED treatment is interrupted, and 3) interative AED trials led to a terminal prophylactic single AED regimen. Results: A total of 6530 adult patients had been screened prior to 1996 by the author, based at a University Hospital. Also generated were a total of 43101 AED treatment history entries for 916 patients, in 377of whom computer medical record was accessible for the most recent visit. The 10-year time span criterion narrowed the list down to 87. After patients with multiple developmental handicaps or unconfirmed epilepsy diagnosis, and those having undergone resection brain surgery were excluded, there remained 31 patients (31/377 = 8.2%). Their terminal AED regimens consisted of phenytoin (15 patients), carbamazepine (12), phenobarbital (3) or valproic acid (2). Conclusions: As a consultative service, the clinic has not consistently extended clinical follow-up, once a degree of seizure control was attained. The result (8.2%) is therefore assumed to underestimate the prevalence of this significant group of patients. The time span criterion, not the lack of efficacy, excluded monotherapy with a second generation AED. Also excluded was a group of patients on 2 AED with an essentially similar degree of excellent clinical control. This may explain a smaller group size of valproic acid monotherapy. This group of patients does not seem to require aggressive AED dosing nor report AED-related adverse symptoms, but represents the failure of efforts to wean off AED. They come to recognize, and fear, inevitable clinical recurrences off AED. They are typically protective of their AED regimen, and may well opt not to continue to work with the epileptologist. Sporadic seizure recurrences seem to occur often during attempts to replace AED with a second generation agent. 1 Paul H. McCabe, 1 Daniel Chehebar, and 1 Matthew Eccher ( 1 Neurology, Penn State, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA ) Rationale: With the exception of pregabalin, all of the second generation antiepilepsy drugs (AEDs) have been available for over 6 years. Many reports on retention and seizure response are done on an individual basis for the different AEDs from different institutions/authors. This makes comparison of the different AEDs difficult, as variation in reporting styles, differences in use of the drugs, and differences in methods can vary significantly from one center to another. It is also unlikely that a large study doing a direct side-to-side comparison of all the newer AEDs will be performed. We present the overall results of use of the newer AEDs from the same institution by the same authors. Methods: All patients treated at Penn State, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center were included. Charts of patients treated from January 1st, 1993 ? June 30th, 2005 were reviewed from the time of the first exposure to each drug until the final visit for each patient. Patients treated less than 6 months for any of the drugs (aside from discontinuation) were excluded. The following drugs were investigated: gabapentin (GPN), lamotrigine (LTG), topiramate (TPM), oxcarbazepine (OXC), levetiracetam (LEV), and zonisamide (ZNS). Many patients were exposed to several of the newer AEDs and therefore data from each drug is expressed as patient exposures, rather than patients. Results: During the study, there were a total of 1262 patient exposures to the second generation AEDs. Breakdown is as follows: GPN-96 patients, LTG-494 patients, TPM-232 patients, OXC-146 patients, LEV-294 patients, and ZNS-133 patients. Seizure-freedom was most likely to occur with LTG, TPM, or LEV, and least likely with GPN; ranging from 5% to 32%. Response varied in part depending on seizure type and how early in the treatment regimen patients were exposed to each drug. Despite many patients not becoming seizure-free, the majority chose to remain on the newer agents. Retention rates by the end of the study varied from 27% to 84% with 27% of patients remaining on GPB, 84.4% remaining on LTG, 84.1% remaining on TPM, 61.6% remaining on OXC, 66.3% on LEV, and 84.2% on ZNS. This suggests better tolerance with the newer AEDs, although this could have been better supported had Quality of Life studies been included in our study. Conclusions: Despite studies suggesting that the chance of becoming seizure-free after failing 2 AEDs is very low (roughly 3%), our study does demonstate that several of the newer AEDs carry a much higher likelihood of patients becoming seizure-free. Despite many patients not becoming seizure-free, retention rates at our center were also higher than other reports, suggesting better tolerance to the newer AEDs. Since all patients were under the care of the same authors at the same institution, there is less variability than comparing trials from different patients groups/centers. Despite this, the authors acknowledge that bias can still exist. 1 Romila Mushtaq ( 1 Department of Neurology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: Sexual dysfunction in women can be categorized into four major categories: sexual desire disorders, sexual arousal disorders, orgasmic disorders (either primary or secondary), and sexual pain disorders. Current evidence supports the idea that women with epilepsy have sexual dysfunction. We propose to assess the prevalence of sexual dysfunction in women who have epilepsy and further analyze types of sexual disorders and relation to types of epilepsy, seizure frequency, and use of antiepileptic medications. Methods: A prospective study was initiated in the outpatient epilepsy clinic of the author. All female patients were instructed to complete a questionnaire as a part of a comprehensive evaluation of review of systems pertaining to women with epilepsy. The patients were specifically questioned regarding: 1) age of onset of epilepsy, 2) type of epilepsy 3) antiepileptic medications currently being prescribed 4) frequency of seizures, and 5) whether the patient was sexually active. All patients were also questioned regarding symptoms of: 1) decreased libido, 2) pain during intercourse, 3) difficulty becoming aroused, and 4) difficulty or inability to reach orgasm. Results: A total of 109/160 patients completed the questions pertaining to sexuality, and 62 (57%) reported being sexually active at the time of the office visit. Of those women who were sexually active, 46(74%) denied symptoms of sexual dysfunction. The other 26% of women reported difficulty or inability to reach orgasm and decreased libido as the most frequent complaints of sexual dysfunction. A total of 47(43%) women were not sexually active, and 34 (72%) of these patients denied symptoms of sexual dysfunction. Of the 28% of women with sexual dysfunction in this group, decreased libido was the most common symptom. Poorly controlled seizures was the only statistically significant factor seen in patients who were not sexually active compared to the women who were sexually active. Note: data collection is ongoing at the time of the submission of this abstract. Conclusions: Women with epilepsy may have sexual dysfunction, the etiology of which has been proposed to be due to complex factors such as disturbance of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, effects of anti-epileptic medications, effects of seizures, psychological issues, and social influences. Our study shows that whether a woman with epilepsy is sexually active or not, approximately 26?28% report symptoms of sexual dysfunction. Women with poorly controlled seizures were less likely to be sexually active. Symptoms of sexual arousal and orgasmic disorders were the most commonly reported symptoms amongst both groups of women. No statistical significance was present to correlate factors of type of epilepsy or antiepileptic medications utilized with women who reported sexual dysfunction. 1 Ruth E. Nemire, 2 Marinelli Vega, 2 Dalia Lorenzo, and 2 R. Eugene Ramsay ( 1 Pharmacy Practice, Nova Southeastern University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL ; and 2 Neurology, University of Miami, Miami, FL ) Rationale: Pregabalin (PGB) is approved for add on therapy for the treatment of partial onset epilepsy. Three double blind placebo controlled trials were completed in over 1052 patients. This report from one epilepsy center provides long term outcome information on patients with refractory seizures treated with PGB. Methods: Patients were entered into an open label treatment protocol to obtain information on long term safety and efficacy of PGB. Patients entered the study either after completing a double blind controlled efficacy trial or as de novo patients. During the open label trial patients were requalified to continue if they had a greater than 50% reduction in seizures. The dose of pregabalin could be titrated to a total maintenance dose of 600mg per day. Patients were allowed to continue treatment with 1?3 other medications in addition to the pregabalin. Doses of other antiepileptic medications could be adjusted during treatment. Results: Thirty six total patients were entered into an open label trial. Twenty three (64%) patients dropped for reasons of lack of efficacy, withdrew consent, or adverse events. Thirteen patients (36%) continued in the open label trial. During the trial 6 (16%) patients did not meet requalification criteria and 1 patient dropped out. Six patients were followed until the close of the study in 2005. Three males and three females completed the open label trial. Ages ranged from 28 y.o. to 62 y.o.; two patients were of Hispanic descent, three Caucasian and 1 African American. Seizures began in all patients between age 1 and age 18. Patients had been treated for epilepsy between 4 and 48 years with the majority over 40 years of treatment. Four patients were on 2 antiepileptic drugs when starting the trial 2 patients were on lamotrigine only at enrollment. Patients completing the trial were followed from four to six years total treatment. Three patients were seizure free and the others a marked reduction of seizures ranging from fifty to ninety percent per month. Two patients had an increase in seizure free months. Sixty seven percent of the patients completing the trial continued to have a further reduction in seizures from 48% to 100%. Adverse events reported were few and coincide with data reported from double blind placebo controlled trials. Two patients reported no adverse events, one reported weight gain and double vision was reported by 3 patients at some point during the course of the trial but they continued on drug. Conclusions: Patients maintained on pregablin for greater than 4 years continued to have a greater than 50% reduction in seizure frequency, elimination of other antiepileptic drug doses were achieved during this time period, and patients had few or no adverse effects. 1 Mordekhay Medvedovsky, 1,2 Svetlana Kipervasser, 3 Batya B. Davidovici, 4 Tatiana Vander, and 1,2 Miri Y. Neufeld ( 1 EEG and Epilepsy Unit, Department of Neurology, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel-Aviv, Israel ; 2 Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel ; 3 Department of Dermatology, Kaplan Medical Center, Rechovot, Israel ; and 4 Rehabilitation Center, Beit Loevenstein, Raanana, Israel ) Rationale: Video-EEG monitoring (VEM) is a vital diagnostic tool in the pre-operative work-up of patients suffering from intractable focal epilepsy. During VEM, anti-epileptic drug (AED) dosages are often reduced in order to induce focal seizures in patients; an unavoidable side effect can sometimes be generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS). The goal of this study was to answer two questions: 1) What are the risk factors for GTCS in patients with focal epilepsy during VEM? 2) At what stage in the reduction of AEDs will GTCS most likely occur? Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the records of all adult patients (>18y) hospitalized in the VEM Unit in the Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center from 2002?2005, with focal epilepsy who also had GTCS. A comparative group was created by reviewing the records of the first patient of each month who had focal epilepsy but who did not have a GTCS during VEM hospitalization. The drug reduction in both groups was done using identical protocol. Results: Fifty-one patients with GTCS were identified and compared with 48 patients in the control group. Men were more prevalent in the group with GTCS ? 34 (61%) ? than in the control group ? 22 (39%) (p = 0.037). More patients with GTCS during VEM also had a history of GTCS ? 45 (58%)/33 (42%) (p = 0.018); a history of simple partial seizures (SPS) was less prevalent in the group with GTCS ? 33 (45%)/40 (54.8%) p = 0.035). There was a clustering of GTCS on the seventh day from the start of AED reduction (8 patients). Women had GTCS earlier (5.75 days, SD 3.53) than men (8.15 days, SD 6.083) (p = 0.033). Patients with a history of febrile convulsions had GTCS later (9.35 days, SD 7.71) compared with patients with no history of febrile convulsions (6.79 days, SD 4.59) (p = 0.027). Conclusions: The risk factors for GTCS in patients with focal epilepsy during VEM were shown to be: male gender, history of GTCS and absence of history of SPS; women and patients with no history of febrile convulsions have GTCS earlier, and the risk of GTCS is highest on the seventh day from the onset of AED reduction. These results provide a helpful tool in predicting risk factors for GTCS during drug dosage reduction in VEM. 1 Young Joo No, 1 Sang-Ahm Lee, and 1 Joong Koo Kang ( 1 Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: Several studies have revealed the increased incidence of atypical language dominance in patients with left hemisphere epileptic foci. We retrospectively investigated the incidence and related factors for language dominance shift, determined by intracarotid amobarbital procedure (IAP), in patients with hemispheric focal epilepsies. Methods: We included 222 left epileptic patients whose language dominance was determined by IAP at Asan Medical Center from 1994 to 2004. The items of language test in IAP included spontaneous speech (6 items), understanding (2 items), and repetition (2 items). Language lateralization index (LI) was computed according to the formula L = (Score IAP right ?Score IAP left)/(Score IAP right + Score IAP left). Clinical information was obtained from medical records including age, gender, age at onset of epilepsy, duration of epilepsy, frequency of seizures, risk factors, onset age of risk factors, and lateralization of MRI or EEG. Results: Of the 222 patients (male 110 patients, 49.5%), complete left language dominance was 142 patients (64.0%), and complete right hemispheric language dominance was 29 patients (13.1%). Seizure onset age, onset age of risk factors, handedness and MRI lesions (hippocampal atrophy or left extensive lesion) had statistically significant association with atypical language dominance. On a linear regression analysis, the significant predictors of the atypical language dominancy were handedness and left extensive lesion (R2= .64). Conclusions: Atypical language dominancy in patients with left epileptic foci was highly correlated with non-right handedness and extensive lesion on the left hemisphere. 1 Ketil B. Olsen, 1 Erik Tauboll, and 1 Leif Gjerstad ( 1 Department of Neurology, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ) Rationale: Intravenous VPA has been approved for treatment of benzodiazepine-resistant status epilepticus (SE) in Norway. We are now performing a prospective registration of the effect of i.v. VPA in SE and serial attacks (SA) from 6 Norwegian hospitals. Methods: Data have been obtained from the first 41 adult patients, 23 women and 18 men, treated with i.v. VPA after having been unsuccessfully treated with benzodiazepines for SE/SA. The protocol suggested a VPA loading dose of 25 mg/kg over 30 min, followed by continuous infusion of 100 mg/hour for 24 hours. Results: 29 patients were diagnosed with SE, 12 with SA. 19 had generalised tonic-clonic while 16 had complex-partial seizures as their main SE/SA seizure type. 6 had mixed or other type of seizures. Median VPA bolus dose was 1800 mg (range 700?2500). Median time to treatment of SE/SA for all patients was 3 h (range 0.3?72 h). For patients with complex partial SE/SA, median time to start of VPA was 4 h (range 0?72 h). Effect, defined as the lack of need of anaesthesia (barbiturates or propofol), showed that VPA was effective in 31 of 41 cases (76%). Of the 10 cases requiring anaesthesia, 5 had a significant delay before starting treatment (20 to 72 hours). Moderate hypotension during bolus dose infusion was seen in one patient, but corrected easily with i.v. saline without complications. Otherwise, no side-effects were reported. Conclusions: VPA is safe and effective in the treatment of benzodiazepine-resistant SE/SA. SE/SA was stopped in 31 of 41 cases (76%). Lack of effect may be related to delayed treatment and too low loading dose. 1 Alison M. Pack, 2 Anne R. Davis, 2 Jordana Kritzer, 1 Ava Yoon, 2 Adele Camus, and 1 Silvia Done ( 1 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 2 Obstetrics and Gynecology, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: Pre-pregnancy planning is important for women with epilepsy to optimize fetal outcome. In addition, women with epilepsy experience higher pregnancy-related risks than their healthy peers. Published guidelines recommend highly effective contraception; however, no published data describes contraceptive practices in this population. Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional questionnaire study among a convenience sample of reproductive-age women (18 to 44) with epilepsy attending outpatient clinics at an urban, academic medical center. Questionnaires were administered at 3 clinics. Two included patients in a private office with predominantly commercial insurance and 1 was a multi-provider clinic of mostly Medicaid insurance. Our questionnaire assessed demographics, reproductive history, antiepileptic drug use, sexual behavior, and contraceptive use. The questionnaire was offered in both English and Spanish and conducted in a private area. Results: We approached 425 women to obtain 148 (35%) completed questionnaires; many were excluded due to age (n = 198). Participants had a mean age of 32 years (SD ± 8), 32% spoke Spanish and 32% described themselves as Hispanic. Insurance included commercial (55%), Medicaid/Medicare (41%), and self-pay (6%). Participants reported a wide range of educational attainment and income. Fifty-five percent (n = 78) reported having vaginal intercourse in the last 30 days. Of these sexually active women, 59 (76%) used contraception, 11 (14%) were pregnant, and 2 (3%) sought pregnancy. Contraceptive methods included male condoms (n = 21, 36%), withdrawal (n = 18, 31%), oral contraception (n = 16, 27%), male or female sterilization (n = 10, 17%), patch (n = 3, 5%), rhythm (n = 3, 5%), intrauterine device (n = 1, 2%), depo-provera (n = 1, 2%), and other (n = 11, 19%). Some women used multiple methods. Of those using hormonal methods (oral contraception, patch, depo-provera) (n = 21), 6 (29%) concomitantly took an enzyme inducing antiepileptic drug with known increasing susceptibility to pregnancy. Women reported 181 pregnancies and 91 (50%) were unplanned. Conclusions: In this sample, many women with epilepsy at risk for getting pregnant rely on low-efficacy contraceptive methods. Similar to the general population, 50% of their pregnancies were unplanned. These findings illustrate the need for continued education of women with epilepsy regarding effective contraception. 1 Erin Phillip, 1 Shahram Shahrokshi, and 1 Neelan Pillay ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Psychosis in epilepsy is more commonly postictal and less often ictal or related to treatment. However de novo psychosis upon administration of antiepileptic medications is not uncommon. De novo psychosis on rapid withdrawal of antiepileptic medications in patients with epilepsy in the seizure monitoring unit (SMU) has not been reported. The purpose of this article is to investigate a possible link between withdrawal of carbamazepine and the onset of psychotic symptoms. Methods: We describe the clinical course of two patients in whom rapid or abrupt withdrawal of carbamazepine was followed by new onset of psychotic symptoms. We analysed patient specific factors such as history, age, gender, date/time since last seizure and length of use of carbamazepine as well as the rate of withdrawal and related these to the onset of symptoms. The symptoms displayed included aggression, disorientation, delusions/hallucinations and violent behaviour. Neither patient had a previous psychiatric history. One patient has frontal lobe epilepsy with nocturnal complex partial seizures. This patient was admitted to the SMU unit for further localization of seizure foci using invasive subdural and depth electrode monitoring. During the admission carbamazepine was withdrawn rapidly over 4 days from 1200 mg/day to zero. The second patient has temporal lobe epilepsy with complex partial seizures and has had previous left temporal lobectomy. This patient abruptly stopped taking carbamazepine on her own and was admitted to the SMU immediately following onset of psychosis. There were also 2 previous admissions for psychosis on abrupt withdrawal of carbamazepine. Results: Carbamazepine was withdrawn rapidly in 1 patient and abruptly in the 2nd patient. Both patients became aggressive, disoriented and delusional and did not return to baseline behaviour for several days. At onset of psychosis neither of the patients was on any other anti epileptic medications. No clinical or subclinical seizures were recorded before, during or after the psychosis on video EEG telemetry. MRI scans were normal. Conclusions: We believe that these cases indicate a possible link between withdrawal of carbamazepine and new onset of psychotic symptoms. Carbamazepine withdrawal followed by de novo psychosis in epilepsy patients has not been reported. These cases indicate a need for extra caution when withdrawing carbamazepine rapidly in the seizure monitoring unit or for other reasons. 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 Jose Zenteno-Tellez, 1 Sam Wiebe, and 1 Paolo Federico ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: General neurologists, and epileptologists, need to interpret and apply driving guidelines for patients with seizures and epilepsy. Physicians are expected to know and follow provincial regulations, which have variable reporting requirements. Our purpose was to determine clinicians' familiarity with driver guideline restrictions, and the differences in application of restrictions between epileptologists and general neurologists. Methods: A modified motor vehicle driving questionnaire based on the Canadian Medical Association (CMA) Guidelines was mailed out to 33 neurologists in Calgary, Canada. The conditions listed were syncope with no obvious neurological or cardiac cause; aura or simple partial seizure unchanged for more than one year; unprovoked first seizure; epilepsy on treatment and seizure free; seizure during sleep or awakening with normal EEG; simple partial seizures (aura); seizure recurrence on medication withdrawal or change under medical direction; alcohol withdrawal seizures. The questionnaire asked to recommend duration of driving restrictions for various license classes (class 5 = private car or small truck and 1?4 = professional). Auras and simple partial seizures were categorized separately but defined as non disabling sensory or motor seizures. Results are expressed as median and range. Groups are compared with the rank-sum test. Results: 76% (25/33) of the questionnaires were returned. The responses were analyzed for the entire group and for epileptologist separately. For syncope, the entire group's responses were concordant with the CMA guidelines, but epileptologists recommended driving earlier (within 1 month) if the examination and investigations were normal. Neurologists and epileptologists agreed with CMA guidelines in patients with a solitary seizure and in those with only auras. However, both groups would restrict driving for 12 months, as opposed to the recommended 6 month. There is consensus for AED withdrawal seizures, alcohol related seizures. Interestingly, both groups would not restrict driving for an aura but would restrict driving for 12 months for ?simple partial seizures?. More disagreement between neurologists and epileptologists occurred in restriction for commercial licenses, but these were not statistically significant. Conclusions: In an unprovoked first seizure general neurologists and epileptologists agree with guidelines' restrictions, but in cases of syncope, epileptologists are less restrictive. Neurologists and epileptologists interpreted an aura to be different from a simple partial seizure. In general, neurologists and epileptologists are more restrictive for epilepsy than the recommended CMA guidelines. Differences between neurologists and epileptologists were not significant. 1 Annkathrin Poepel, 1 Christian Hoppe, 1 Déirdre Cooper-Mahkorn, and 1 Christian E. Elger ( 1 Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany; Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany; Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany; and Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: To compare patients' seizure documentation with seizure diaries and seizure count documented by in-patient video-EEG-monitoring. In addition, the benefit of daily reminding patients to carefully document all seizures was assessed in a randomized controlled trial (RCT). Methods: Prospective investigation of all in-patients with a diagnosis of epilepsy who received video-EEG-monitoring for at least 24 hours (Oct 2004 ? Jul 2005). In a RCT patients received a conventional seizure diary without (group A) or including daily personal reminding (B). Based on video documented semiology and EEG data all monitored seizures were classified as simple-partial seizures (SPS, including auras), complex-partial seizures (CPS) and generalized tonic clonic seizures (GTCS). Pre-ictal EEG-periods were classified regarding the patient's state of vigilance. Results: We recorded a total of 613 classifiable seizures (190 SPS, 371 CPS, 52 GTCS) in 95 patients (mean age 39.3 years, 43 female). Seizure documentation quality of patients was different depending on seizure type and pre-ictal state of vigilance. Particularly, CPS (72%) and seizures beginning in sleep (86%) were at risk not to be documented by the patient. 59 patients (62%) had an incomplete seizure documentation including 41 patients (43%) who documented no seizure. Incompletely documenting patients had significantly less SPS but significantly more CPS during video-EEG-monitoring as compared to completely documenting patients (Mann-Whitney, p < .01). Furthermore they had more seizures beginning in sleep, higher risk for ammonshorn sclerosis, lower educational level and lower verbal learning performance. Regarding RCT group B (with reminding) yielded a higher rate of documented seizures as compared to group A but this difference was not significant. Conclusions: In this sample of in-patients with chronic epilepsies, a high rate of patients with incomplete documentation (62%) as well as a high rate of undocumented seizures (55%) could be revealed during video-EEG-monitoring. Regarding seizure types, CPS were the most common subtype in our study (61%). These, however, were documented most unreliably (72% missing in patients' documentation). Seizures occurring from sleep were less reliably documented than seizures occurring from a waking state (86% versus 31% missing in patients documentation). Seizure frequency, particularly frequency of CPS and frequency of seizures in sleep, ammonshorn sclerosis, low educational level and low verbal learning performance were negative prognostic factors for correct seizure documentation. Although conditions in this investigation are not entirely comparable with out-patient condition at home, evaluations of the status and course of epilepsy in individual patients and clinical studies should consider that seizure diaries provide highly subjective data. 1 Nina Politzer, and 1 Peter L. Carlen ( 1 Epilepsy Program, University Health Network,Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: In our tertiary care epilepsy clinic we have many pharmacologically intractable patients that are not surgical candidates, who have failed most antiepilepsy drugs. Magnesium is known to block seizures in eclampsia. It is anticonvulsant in several in vitro models, and its mechanisms of action include decreasing neuronal excitability by decreasing membrane surface charge and blocking NMDA receptors. Therefore we decided to administer magnesium supplements to these intractable patients. Methods: This observational study was designed as a preliminary unblinded test of the hypothesis that magnesium supplementation would decrease the frequency of intractable seizures. Patients were selected on the basis of having pharmacologically intractable seizures. Patients were followed as per their routinely booked clinic visits. They were asked to purchase over the counter magnesium supplements, with preference given to magnesium oxide, 420 mg. Results: To date we have followed 20 patients taking magnesium supplements ranging from 250 mg od to 420 mg qid per day. No side effects have been noted to date from the magnesium administration. Five of the 20 patients reported greater than 50% reduction in seizure frequency, and 2 reported virtually no seizures without stressors or forgetting their medications. No patients reported worsening of seizures and some reported a calming effect, but no obvious seizure reduction. Conclusions: This safe and cheap additional pharmacotherapy deserves a serious double blinded trial in intractable epilepsy. There are many questions to be considered including the mechanism(s) of action, alterations in serum (and brain) magnesium, the best formulation (as a salt, as a chelate), the proper dosing, possible side effects, and the patient characteristics of responders and nonresponders. 1 Gulseren Aktas, 2 Kader Karli Oguz, 3 Nese Dericioglu, and 1 Serap Saygi ( 1 Neurology, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Ankara, Turkey ; 2 Radiology, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Ankara, Turkey ; and 3 Institute of Neurological Sciences and Psychiatry, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Ankara, Turkey ) Rationale: Recently, abnormalities of the shape and positioning of the hippocampal formation have been recognized increasingly on MRI. The significance of this finding is not well known since it can be detected in patients investigated for various reasons. Few data exists in the literature regarding the presence of this abnormality in patients with seizures. We aimed to investigate the clinical and EEG findings in patients with seizures whose cranial MRI revealed the presence of hippocampal shape abnormalities. Methods: We retrospectively analyzed the clinical and laboratory findings of patients who were investigated at our epilepsy clinic for seizures between 1995?2006 and had cranial MRI that clearly demonstrated abnormalities of the shape of the hippocampus. Patients with any accompanying lesions (malformation of cortical development, tumor, encephalomalacia, etc) were excluded. Results: Twenty one patients [11M, 10F; age: 17?69 years (mean 33)] were included in the study. Seizure onset varied between 1?58 years (mean 21.5) and occurred in adulthood in 15 (71%) patients. Seizure characteristics were as follows: simple partial (n = 9), complex partial (n = 17) and secondary generalized tonic-clonic (n = 10). Twelve (57.1%) patients were seizure free on monotherapy with anticonvulsants. Eight (38.1%) patients reported risk factors for seizures (febrile convulsion, head trauma, perinatal injury, family history of epilepsy). Cranial MRI was initially reported as normal in 11 (52.4%) patients. Abnormal shape of the hippocampus was evident on the left side in 16 (76.1%), right side in 3 (14.3%) and bilaterally in 2 patients (9.5%). Eight (38.1%) patients had normal or non-specific EEG recordings. Pathological EEG findings were concordant with MRI results in 9 (42.8%) patients. Conclusions: Although uncommon when compared to hippocampal sclerosis, hippocampal shape abnormalities may be associated with epilepsy. Seizure onset is usually late in this group and more than half of the patients are seizure free on single anticonvulsant. EEG may fail to demonstrate pathological findings in a considerable number of patients. The occurrence of this abnormality mostly on the left side may somehow be related to development of the dominant hemisphere and deserves further attention. Radiologists should be aware of hippocampal shape abnormalities since half of the cases may be overlooked on MRI. 1 Johnny Salameh, and 1 Sanjay P. Singh ( 1 The Nebraska Epilepsy Center, Deptartment of Neurological Sciences, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE ) Rationale: Mesial Temporal Sclerosis (MTS) is the most common cause of refractory temporal lobe epilepsy. It is also the one most often treated surgically, because medical treatment fails in upto75% of cases, and surgical treatment is successful in about 58%1. This study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of Levetiracetam in the treatment of Temporal Lobe Epilepsy in patients with Mesial Temporal Sclerosis. Methods: This is a retrospective study looking at our database of over 1000 epilepsy patients. The patients were classified as having Temporal Lobe Epilepsy and Mesial Temporal Sclerosis based on the following criteria: A. Video-EEG confirmation of Temporal Lobe Epilepsy by ictal and interictal recordings and no other contradictory data and MRI showing mesial temporal sclerosis. Or B. Electroencephalogram showing epileptiform discharges consistent with Temporal Lobe Epilepsy, clinical features consistent with Temporal Lobe Epilepsy and MRI showing mesial temporal sclerosis. No contradictory data. Thirty patients fulfilled the above criteria and were started on Levetiracetam. The patients were followed for an average of 20 months from the time of starting Levetiracetam. No other antiepileptic drug changes were made during this period in these patients. One patient could not afford the medication after being started on Levetiracetam and three patients had no follow up after Levetiracetam was started. Therefore, the total number of patients were 26. The outcome was classified as: Class 1: Seizure free Class 2: > 50% reduction in seizure frequency Class 3: < 50% reduction in seizure frequency Patients in Class 1 and 2 were designated as responders. Results: Twenty-one of the 26 patients (80.7%) with Temporal Lobe Epilepsy and MTS had a greater than 50% reduction in seizures. Ten of the 26 (38.4%) patients became seizure free. The average number of antiepileptic drugs these patients had failed is 3.13 before starting Levetiracetam. Outcome: Class 1: 10 patients (38.5%) Class 2: 11 patients (42.3%) Class 3: 5 patients (19.2%) 38.5% of patients with Temporal Lobe Epilepsy and MTS, who had failed an average of more than 3 antiepileptic medications, became seizure free on treatment with Levetiracetam. The responder rate was 80.7%. The responder rate for Levetiracetam in all partial seizure is 39.8% to 44%2. Conclusions: This study clearly demonstrates a unique efficacy profile of Levetiracetam in Temporal Lobe Epilepsy with MTS. Large randomized controlled studies are needed to study this important efficacy profile. References 1.?Spencer SS. When should temporal-lobe epilepsy be treated surgically? Lancet Neurol; 2002; 1(6):375?382. 2.?Cereghino JJ, Biton V, Abou-Khalil B, Dreifuss F, Gauer LJ and Leppik I. Levetiracetam for partial seizures: results of a double-blind randomized clinical trial. Neurology 2000; 55(2):236?242. 1 Hermann Stephan, 2 Andreas Schreiner, 3 Anja Mueller, and 3 Barbara Schauble ( 1 Neurology Clinic, Epilepsy Center Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany ; 2 Medical and Scientific Affairs, Janssen-Cilag EMEA, Neuss, Germany ; and 3 Medical and Scientific Affairs, Janssen-Cilag, Neuss, Germany ) Rationale: To assess seizure reduction and adverse events in different age groups of elderly patients (≥ 60) with epilepsy treated with topiramate (TOPAMAX, TPM). Methods: In this prospective, open label, multicenter phase IV flexible dose study, elderly patients [ < 65, 65 ? 74 and ≥75 years (yrs)] with epilepsy irrespective of seizure type were included and followed for 12 months. Seizure frequency and adverse events were documented at each visit. Results: 107 patients (53% male, mean age 69 ± 7 years) were enrolled, 32 patients < 65yrs, 54 patients between 65yrs ? 74yrs and 21 patients > 74 yrs. 102 patients had at least one seizure during the retrospective baseline encompassing a 3 months period. Mean duration of epilepsy was 9.5 yrs. Most frequent seizure types at baseline were generalized tonic-clonic (58%) and complex partial (25%). Mean seizure frequency was 3.5 ± 14.6 and decreased to 1.6 ± 7.7 (p < 0.0001) versus baseline. At endpoint, the mean TPM dose was 98 mg/day in monotherapy and 153 mg/day in add-on. Mean dose was lowest (86 mg/day) and the percentage of monotherapy was highest in the oldest group. Overall, 78% of patients were responders (seizure reduction ≥50%) and 44% remained seizure-free throughout the study. The highest percentage of responders was in the youngest group (96%). 46 patients (43%) had at least one treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE). The number of TEAEs was highest amongst the oldest group. TEAEs ≥ 5% overall were somnolence (9.4%), dizziness (7.5%), paraesthesia (5.6%), and cognitive complaints (10.3%). Main reasons for study discontinuation (40% overall) were a TEAE (15.9%) or loss to follow-up (12.2%). Conclusions: In elderly patients with epilepsy, TPM was well tolerated among all age groups andwas associated with a significant decrease in seizure frequency. Doses used were slightly lower than the recommended target doses for adults. 1,2 Alex M. Taylor, 1 Deborah A. Cahn-Weiner, 1 David Filippi, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 CSPP, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Measures of personality functioning are frequently included in the evaluation of patients suspected of having nonepileptic seizure (NES) disorder. Previous research has indicated that the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) provides moderate discrimination between patients with NES and those with epileptic seizures (ES)1. In addition to personality assessment, evaluation of mood functioning using the Profile of Mood States ? Depression scale (POMS-D) may serve to classify patients with seizure disorders who endorse depressive symptoms2. The purpose of this study was to compare the discriminative properties of these measures in classifying patients with NES and ES. Methods: Patients were recruited upon admission to the video-EEG (v-EEG) monitoring unit, and completed the POMS and PAI prior to receiving their diagnosis. Twenty-eight patients (20 female, 8 male) with definitive diagnoses were included in the analysis. NES and ES patients were matched on age and education. v-EEG monitoring resulted in 20 diagnoses of ES and 8 diagnoses of NES. Results: There was a borderline significant difference between groups on the POMS-D (p = .08), with the NES group endorsing more depression symptoms. On the PAI, the NES and ES groups differed significantly on the Somatic Complaints-Conversion (SOM-C) subscale, Antisocial Features-Antisocial Behaviors subscale, and Aggression-Verbal Aggression subscale (all p's < .05). The only clinically elevated scale was in the NES group on SOM-C (Mean T-score 72.7). In a discriminant function analysis (DFA) correcting for group size probabilities with v-EEG confirmed diagnosis as the dependent variable, the three PAI subscales provided an overall classification accuracy of 71.4%. In a separate DFA, the POMS-D provided an overall classification accuracy of 75%. When entered jointly, the PAI subscales and POMS provided an overall classification accuracy of 82.1% Conclusions: Theories addressing the underlying etiology of NES have included both personality and mood factors. Psychological measures such as the PAI and POMS are routinely used in the work-up of both NES and ES patients when psychiatric features are suspected. These results suggest that used jointly, these measures can provide fairly accurate discrimination between these patient groups and may serve as useful screening instruments. 1 Wagner et al. Use of the Personality Assessment Inventory as an efficacious and cost-effective diagnostic tool for nonepileptic seizures. Epilepsy Behav 2005;7:301?304. 2 Griffith et al. Measuring depressive symptoms among treatment-resistant seizure disorder patients: POMS Depression scale as an alternative to the BDI-II. Epilepsy Behav 2005;7:266?272. 1 Jose F. Tellez-Zenteno, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Quality of life is lower in people with epilepsy than in the general population. Its association with seizures, adverse drug effects and mood disorders has been documented. Despite a high level of somatic comorbidity in epilepsy, its contribution to Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) has not been studied. The objective of this study is to asses the impact of comorbid chronic conditions (eg., heart diseases, diabetes, arthritis and migraine) on HRQOL in people with epilepsy in the general population. Methods: Data were collected as part of the 19996?1997 Canadian Community Health Survey. HRQOL was assessed using the Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI-3). The HUI3 maps any one of the vectors of eight health attribute levels into a summary health value ranging between ?0.36 and 1.0. The most preferred health level (perfect health) is rated as 1.0 and death is rated 0.0, while negative scores reflect health states considered worse than death. Respondents (n = 129921) were classified based on the presence or absence of epilepsy, diabetes, migraine, arthritis, and possible combinations. Results: The overall HUI-3 score for the general population (n = 129921) was 0.86, and it was significantly higher than that of the studied chronic conditions (p < 0.05). The mean HUI-3 score was 0.70 (CI95 0.67?0.73) in persons with epilepsy (n = 803), 0.74 (CI95 0.73?0.75) in diabetes (n = 6180), 0.79 (CI95 0.78?0.80) in migraine (n = 11915), 0.72 (CI95 0.71?0.73) in arthritis (n = 23908) and 0.71 (CI95 0.70?0.72) in heart disease (n = 7725). The HUI-3 score was 0.45 (CI95 0.31?0.59) in persons with epilepsy and diabetes (n = 46), 0.59 (CI95 0.49?0.69) in epilepsy and heart disease (n = 87), 0.60 (CI95 0.52?0.68) in epilepsy and migraine (n = 146), and 0.56 (CI95 0.49?0.63) in epilepsy and arthritis (n = 199). All were significantly lower than in the overall epilepsy population. Conclusions: In addition to the effect of epilepsy on quality of life, the presence of common, chronic somatic comorbid conditions has a major impact on the quality of life of persons with epilepsy. This is important when reporting HRQOL of patients with epilepsy, and when assessing the impact of epilepsy therapies on HRQOL. 1 Annamaria M. Terracciano, 2 Gennaro Barbato, 2 Pasquale Alfieri, 2 Rossana Arlomede, 1 Loredana Nargi, and 2 Giacomo Visco ( 1 Neurologic Rehabilitation, Clinica ?S.Maria del Pozzo?, Somma Vesuviana, Napoli, Italy ; and 2 Neurology, ASL NA 1, Naples, Naples, Italy ) Rationale: To evaluate efficacy and tolerability of LEV in elderly patients with newly diagnosed seizures and neuroradiologic findings of Chronic Cerebrovascular Disease (previously asymptomatic). Methods: -? elderly patients with onset Epilepsy at onset (Partial seizures). -? LEV as Monotherapy. -? Lev commenced at 250 mg/die,titrated weekly by 250 mg to the final dose. -? 12 months follow-up: visit every two montlhs, seizure diary check,EEG, complete blood sampling,Mini Mental State Examination(MMSE), Short Form Health Survey (SF12)and caregiver Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) questionnaires. Outcome assessments. -? Change in seizure frequency. -? Quality of life (by MMSE,SF12 e NPI). -? Tolerability by evaluating LEV-related AEs. Results: 33 patients were included and all of them completed the 12 months study and achieved seizure freedom. 27(81.8%) with LEV dose 1000?1500mg daily. 6 (18.1%) needed add-on therapy with other AED: Topiramate, Lamotrigine, Oxcarbazepine. LEV showed no interactions with any concomitant drug used for other patologies(Diabetes Mellitus, Hypertension,Mood Depression,etc) MMSE, SF12 and NPI score did not worsen. 31 patients showed AEs during the titration phase: somnolence(n = 5), headache(n = 23), dizziness(n = 2),mental confusion(n = 1). Conclusions: LEV showed god efficacy and tolerability in treatment of Epilepsy in elderly patients with Chronic Cerebrovascular Disease. 1 Farrah M. Thomas, 2 Noah Webster, 1 Peggy Crawford, and 1 Nancy Foldvary ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Sociology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Patients with epilepsy experience varying types of sleep difficulties including increased latency to sleep onset, increased number and duration of awakenings, decreased sleep efficiency, and sleep apnea that contribute to excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS), known to negatively affect quality of life. EDS is commonly attributed to the effects of seizures and/or anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs). It is possible that individuals attempt to compensate for EDS by using caffeine, a mild stimulant and the most widely used psychoactive drug in the world. The purpose of this study is to investigate factors associated with caffeine consumption in individuals with epilepsy. Methods: Participants are two hundred and twenty-five adults (44% male, 88% Caucasian, 44% married) aged 18?75 with medically intractable epilepsy referred for surgery evaluation at the Cleveland Clinic. They participated in a health psychology evaluation that included chart review for demographic, disease, and health-related information; clinical interview concerning current and past psychological status; and self-report measures of mood, fatigue, and daytime sleepiness. Results: Daily caffeine consumption ranges from 0 to 320 oz, with 20% consuming no caffeine, 38% 24 oz or more, and 3% 100 oz or more. Fifteen percent of participants are on one AED, 64% two AEDs, 18% three, and 2% four or more. Sleep ranges from 2 to 11hrs, with an average of 7hrs/night. On a subset of 49 patients, mean scores on the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) and Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) are 4 and 8, respectively. Quantity of caffeine consumption is not associated with gender, the number of AEDs, hours of sleep/night, fatigue level, or daytime sleepiness. Greater caffeine consumption is associated with regular use of nicotine and alcohol but not with illicit drug use (current or past) or exercise. Lastly, individuals who are currently employed full/part-time (42%) are more likely to consume larger quantities of caffeine. Conclusions: These results suggest that excessive consumption of caffeine is common among individuals with medically intractable epilepsy, particularly those who use other substances or are employed. Surprisingly, caffeine use is not associated with the number of AEDs, fatigue, daytime sleepiness, or the number of hours of sleep/night suggesting large quantities of caffeine are consumed for reasons other than fatigue or daytime sleepiness. For example, there is a strong behavioral association among caffeine, tobacco, and alcohol use. Individuals may also use large quantities of caffeine in an attempt to counteract perceived mental fatigue. In future studies, it may be helpful to ask patients why they consume caffeine. Subsequent analyses will examine the association between specific AEDs and caffeine use. We will continue to examine the association between fatigue, daytime sleepiness, sleep characteristics (i.e., sleep onset and disruptions), and caffeine as additional data becomes available. 1 Paolo Tinuper, 1 Francesca Bisulli, 1 Luca Vignatelli, 1 Francesca Pittau, 1 Sara Musho-Ilbeh, 1 Federica Provini, 1 Ilaria Naldi, and 1 Pasquale Montagna ( 1 Department of Neurological Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy ) Rationale: Video EEG-polysomnography is the reference standard in the differential diagnosis between nocturnal frontal lobe seizures (NFLS) and non-epileptic paroxysmal sleep disorders. Nevertheless it is expensive and useful only in case of frequent attacks. On the other hand, the diagnostic accuracy of clinical history, that could be useful in patients with rare events, is unknown. The aim of this study is to measure the diagnostic accuracy of clinical history in distinguishing NFLS from non-epileptic paroxysmal sleep disorders. Methods: Three categories of subjects were eligible for this study: 1) patients with NFLS; 2) patients with parasomnias; 3) patients with other sleep disorders confounding for NFLS. Clinical, neuroradiological and interictal and ictal video-polysomnographic recordings from the database of the Sleep Center of the Department of Neurological Sciences, University of Bologna, were retrospectively reviewed. Eligible subjects were classified as having ?NFLS? or ?NOT-NFLS? by sleep medicine and epilepsy experts. Moreover, 5 major and 13 minor anamnestic criteria were selected to be tested in the diagnosis of NFLS. On the basis of these criteria a questionnaire was devised and administered by telephone to 103 patients by a young newly qualified doctor blinded to the aim of the study and the final diagnosis of patients. The diagnostic parameters (i.e. sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios, diagnostic odds ratio ? DOR) were calculated for each criterion. Results: Forty-four subjects had documented NFLS; 59 subjects were classified as ?NOT-NFLS?. Generally, sensitivity appeared to be moderate (range 0.2?0.6) and specificity was high (0.9?1) for most of the possible criteria associations. The higher diagnostic accuracy, measured by the DOR, was obtained combining the first criterion (defining the semeiology of the epileptic event) with one of the following features (in decreasing order): 1. presence of vocalization (DOR 76.5), 2. less than 2 minutes' duration (42.8), 3. aura preceding motor behaviour (38.9), 4. positive personal history of tonic-clonic seizures during sleep (25.5), 5. stereotypy of motor phenomena (20.9); 6. recurrence of seizures every night for at least one month (20.4). Conclusions: From this preliminary study we selected one major and six minor clinical criteria for the anamnestic diagnosis of NFLS. The diagnostic accuracy of these criteria appeared to have moderate sensitivity and high specificity. A further prospective validation is needed. 1 Michelle Tisch, 1 Linda Allen, and 1 Romila Mushtaq ( 1 Department of Neurology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: Menarche on average occurs 2.5 years after the onset of puberty in healthy female adolescents. The normal age range for menarche is reported from 11 to 16.5 years with an average of 13.0 to 13.5 years at onset. Catamenial epilepsy has been described as increase in seizure frequency before or during the first few days of the menstruation and/or seizures at the time of ovulation. We proposed to analyze the age of menarche in female patients diagnosed with epilepsy to assess if epilepsy may influence the age of menarche. In addition we further assessed age of menarche in those patients with catamenial epilepsy and compared the age of menarche to those patients who did not have catamenial epilepsy. Methods: A prospective study was initiated in the outpatient epilepsy clinic of senior author. All female patients were instructed to complete a questionnaire as a part of a comprehensive evaluation of review of systems for issues pertaining to women with epilepsy. The patients were specifically questioned regarding: 1)age of onset of epilepsy, 2) age of menarche, 3) if seizures occurred in the 7 days prior to the menstruation, 4)if seizures occurred during the first 3?4 days of menstruation, and 5) if seizures occurred mid-cycle. The findings were confirmed by the physician during the interview. Results: A total of 83 patients were identified with an average age of menarche of 12.68 years. Of the 83 patients, 29 (35%) had catamenial epilepsy with average age of menarche of 12.53 years. 54 patients (65%) did not have catamenial epilepsy with average of menarche of 12.78 years. There was no statistical significance in the difference of age of menarche in the two groups. Age of onset of epilepsy in patients with catamenial epilepsy was 17.37 years compared to 27.8 years in patients without catamenial epilepsy. Of the 29 patients with catamenial epilepsy, only 9 (31%) experienced onset of epilepsy prior to or during the year of menarche. Note: Data collection is ongoing at the time of the submission of this abstract and the total number of patients included in the data analysis is expected to be approximately 150. Conclusions: In our study, females with epilepsy experience an earlier age of menarche compared to reported average age of menarche in healthy female adolescents. This may be due to multiple factors influencing the neuroendocrine axis such as seizures and anti-epileptic medications. There is, however, no difference in age of menarche in women with catamenial epilepsy compared to those women who do not have catamenial epilepsy. Patients with catamenial epilepsy had younger age of onset of epilepsy as compared to those women who did not have catamenial epilepsy. There was no relationship of epilepsy onset prior to and during the year of menarche as a factor associated with the development of catamential epilepsy. 1 Heber L. Varela, 1 Denise S. Taylor, and 1 Selim R. Benbadis ( 1 Neurology  and 2 Biostatistics, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciencs, Little Rock, AR ) Rationale: Sensory simple partial seizures (SSPS) were extensively studied as auras preceding complex partial (CPS) and secondarily generalized seizures (GS). However, they have not been well characterized in epilepsy patients presenting with these seizures as the predominant or only type. The objective of this study is to describe our experience with this particular group of patients. Methods: The adult epilepsy database was searched for patients diagnosed with SSPS, excluding the ones with current CPS or GS. The epileptic nature of the spells had to be supported by EEG and/or the presence of a compatible epileptogenic lesion on brain MRI. We examined whether these patients had other seizure types (CPS or GS) in the past and determined the distribution of epileptic foci between the two cerebral hemispheres. In those patients who had never experienced CPS or GS, we determined the interval between onset of symptoms and their correct characterization as epileptic. Results: Twenty one patients, nine men and 12 women, were selected. Their age ranged from 25 to 79 years. Three (14%) were included just based on the presence of clear ictal and/or interictal epileptiform discharges on EEG, nine (43%) had appropriate epileptogenic lesions on brain MRI, and the remaining nine (43%) had combined EEG and MRI abnormalities. Twelve subjects (57%) had never experienced other seizure types, while nine (43%) reported rare GS/CPS in the past. The epileptogenic focus lateralized to the right cerebral hemisphere in 15 patients (71%) and to the left in six (29%), p = 0.08. In the subjects with no history of GS or CPS, the delay to the correct diagnosis ranged from three weeks to five years (mean = 16 months), with seven of the 12 patients waiting for more than one year to be adequately diagnosed and treated. Conclusions: Practitioners should be aware of the potential for SSPS to occur as the exclusive or main seizure type in some epilepsy patients. The appropriate work up, diagnosis and treatment are often delayed in such circumstances. In addition, we noted a trend suggesting that right hemispheric foci are overrepresented in this particular population. 1 Noah Webster, 2 Peggy Crawford, and 2 Farrah M. Thomas ( 1 Sociology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Patients with epilepsy generally are discouraged from driving due to the risk of experiencing a seizure, losing control, and causing harm to themselves and/or others. Driving regulations for epilepsy patients vary across the U.S.; some states requiring physicians to report patients to motor vehicle bureaus and/or requiring patients to be seizure-free for varying periods of time, while others have no regulations at all. Few studies examine why patients with epilepsy disregard medical advice and continue to drive. The purpose of this study is to examine demographic, disease, and health-related correlates of driving status among medically intractable epilepsy patients. Methods: Participants are two hundred and twenty-five adults (44% male, 88% Caucasian, 44% married, 42% employed full or part-time) aged 18?75 with medically intractable epilepsy referred for surgery evaluation at the Cleveland Clinic. They participated in a health psychology evaluation that included a chart review for demographic, disease, and health-related information. Results: Nineteen percent of the patients continue to drive against medical advice. Current driving status is not associated with age, gender, marital or employment status, duration of epilepsy, seizure frequency, or the use of tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drugs. However, patients on disability are less likely to be currently driving. Descriptive data on a subset of 49 patients indicate 11 of the 12 patients currently driving have never been in an epilepsy-related motor vehicle accident (MVA), while 13 of the 37 not currently driving have been in at least 1. Only 2 of the 12 (17%) currently driving report limited social support, and 11 of the 37 (30%) not driving report limited support. Conclusions: A fair number of patients with medically intractable epilepsy continue to drive against medical advice, but those in an epilepsy-related MVA are less likely to be currently driving. Do these patients drive out of necessity (i.e. limited social support or employment) or because they are generally nonadherent? Results suggest the answer is not that straightforward. While employment status is not associated, patients on disability are less likely to be driving, possibly due to the severity of seizures. What would increase epilepsy patients' adherence to the recommendation against driving? Anecdotally, our patients report community neurologists are less restrictive about driving than neurologists affiliated with epilepsy centers. This suggests more consistent guidelines and follow-up are needed. Ideally an epilepsy-related MVA should not be needed for adherence. Subsequent analyses will examine how personality factors (i.e. anti-social or risk taking characteristics) are related to driving status, and when data are available we will re-examine how driving status relates to epilepsy-related MVAs and social support. 1 David Wheeler, 1 John O. Elliott, 2 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 2 Jose Cabassa ( 1 Public Health, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; and 2 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: In 1997 the Centers for Disease Control defined epilepsy as a public health issue and specific goals related to access, quality of care, surveillance and public education were developed. These continue to be issues where progress has been slow. A 2005 health disparities report from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality revealed that significant gaps still exist in non-Caucasians for many chronic health conditions. The US government report Healthy People 2010 recommended that 90% of all major National, State and local health systems promote nationwide use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to map health related data. The process of geocoding (assigning map coordinates) allows researchers to examine where people reside in relation to distribution of health, socioeconomic conditions and proximity to environmental hazards. This is the first use of GIS technology to map epilepsy related health data. Methods: Three years (2002?2004) of inpatient/outpatient data were obtained from the 5 hospitals within the Temple University Health System (TUHS). The catchment is primarily North and Northeast Philadelphia ? an area of significant ethnic diversity and varying socio-economic status. The dataset included 24,406 contacts with the TUHS. Data included demographics, address, up to 5 ICD-9 codes and insurance type. Results: Fifty-four percent of patient contacts were males (mean age = 47.4) and 46% were female (mean age = 48.9). Thirty-two percent were Caucasian, 47% African American, 20% Unknown and < 1% were Asian/PI/Other. Seventeen percent were listed as Spanish speaking. The catchment area for TUHS reveals highly segregated communities based on the 2000 US Census data. Six zip codes had between 55?84% Caucasians, 6 zip codes had 44?97% African Americans, and 4 had > 33% Latino residents. There were 665 patient contacts within the ICD-9 codes 345 to 345.81 and 817 with a diagnosis of 345.9. There 22,207 patient contacts (91%) coded for seizure NOS code (780.39). The most frequent co-morbidities were hypertension (n = 2322), diabetes (n = 1158), heart failure (n = 794), other urinary problems (n = 774), non-compliance with medical treatment (n = 707), COPD (n = 545), volume depletion (n = 522), asthma (n = 494) and depression NOS (n = 459). Conclusions: This study adds to the understanding of co-morbidities in persons with seizures/epilepsy. Statistical modeling will be used to explain similarities and differences. Culturally relevant outreach to these populations is critical and GIS technology is useful in demonstrating where educational programs for patients and health professionals should be focused. Materials based on medical terms foreign to the lay public are less effective and tend to be written at a level that exceeds the readability of most patients. Since patients of low socioeconomic status are less likely to access internet resources, other community-based outreach needs to be investigated. 1 Tarakad Ramachandran, 1 Robert Beach, and 1 Alireza Yarahmadi ( 1 Neurology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY ) Rationale: Seizure is one of the most common serious neurological conditions encountered in the emergency departments. There is limited information about current use of emergent Brain CT in the evaluation of breakthrough seizure and its yield. Methods: Retrospective review, over a period of two years, of medical records of 250 emergency room admissions of adult patients (ages 18?59) with known history of epilepsy and breakthrough seizure(s) while on antiepileptic medications.The patients with diagnosis of status epilepticus have been excluded. Results: Of the 250 patients with epilepsy, emergent brain CT was performed in 130(52%) cases. The indication for emergent brain CT in addition to epilepsy were fall in 56 (43.1%), altered mental status in 24 (18.5%), lethargy in 19(14.6%), prolonged seizure in 18 (13.8%), recurrent seizures in 11 (8.5%), and headaches in 2 patients (1.5%). Type of seizures included 87 (66.9%) patients with generalized tonic clonic, 33 (25.4%) complex partial with secondary generalization, 2 (1.5%) myoclonic, and 8 (6.1%) had different types of seizures. 98 (75.4%) patients had previous emergent brain CT(s) in our institution. Of the 130 patients scanned 86 (66%) had a normal CT brain, evidence of an old stroke was evident in 8 (6%), small vessel disease in 9 (6.9%), post operative changes in 11 (8.4%), remote trauma in 5 (3.8%), previously diagnosed primary brain tumor in 4 (3%), and nonspecific findings in 7 (5.3%) patients. Emergent brain CT had minor or no impact on the therapy decision-making in any of the 130 patients. Conclusions: The cost of multiple brain CTs in patients with established diagnosis of epilepsy is not trivial, and the benefits have not been determined. The potential cost savings of a more rational approach, multiplied by the large number of patients present to ED with breakthrough seizure, could be huge. Development of criteria or evidence-based guidelines is needed to justify necessity and value of emergent brain CT in this patient group. 1 Amir M. Arain, 1 Aley M. Hamadani, and 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: To evaluate the predictors of seizure remission after the diagnosis of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) is made with Video EEG monitoring. Methods: We retrospectively analyzed the records (2000?2005) of 39 patients with psychogenic seizures who returned for follow up after diagnosis on video EEG monitoring. They represented 24% of 165 who received this diagnosis on video EEG monitoring, even though all patients were asked to return for follow-up. Neuropsychological testing was ordered in all patients, but only 9 had this testing. The status of seizure control was determined at follow up (1 week-4years, mean 7months). We compared the group with residual seizures at follow up and the seizure-free group for the following variables: demographic variables, age at spell onset, level of education, marital status, history of abuse, type and number of recorded events, history of drug abuse, and evidence of social support as suggested by an accompanying family member. We used Fisher's exact test for categorical variables and the t-test for continuous variables. Results: There were 17 males and 22 females with an age range from 20?82 years (mean 39.5 years). Ten patients (26%) had achieved seizure remission, while 74% continued to have psychogenic seizures. Patients who were seizure-free at follow up were more likely to be accompanied by a family member to their first clinic visit. No other variables distinguished the two groups. Conclusions: Patients with psychogenic seizures have poor compliance with follow up after their diagnosis. The majority continue to have spells at follow up. Patients with a better outcome had evidence of greater psychosocial support. 1 Jorge J. Asconapé, and 1 Jan C. McGee ( 1 Neurology, Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL ) Rationale: Humans have individual differences in the timing of their daily activities falling between two extremes: morning types (larks) and evening types (owls). The normal work schedules, determined by light/dark cycles, tend to favor morning types and could lead to chronic sleep deprivation in evening types. As a group, patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) show a tendency for being ?owls?. This particular circadian sleep pattern is often not recognized by treating physicians but can have important implications in the diagnosis and managment of these patients. Methods: We adminstered the English version of the Horne-Östberg self-assesment questionnaire1 to 12 patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy to determine their morningness and eveningness chronotypes. All patients included had both clinical and EEG findings consistent with IGE. Results: Of the 12 patients, 7 had juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, 3 had IGE with generalized tonic-clonic seizures only, and 2 had juvenile absence epilepsy. Mean age at the time of testing was 19.6 years (r: 15?25 years). The mean test score was 39.1 (r: 25?64) which corresponds to a moderately evening type. Two patients (16.7%) were scored as definitely evening type, 5 (41.7%) as moderately evening type, 4 (33.3%) as neither and 1 (8.3%) as a moderately morning type. When patients were asked to classify themselves as either a ?morning? versus ?evening? type, 7 (58.3%) indicated a definitely evening type, 4 (33.3%) a moderately evening type and 1 (8.3%) a moderately morning type. Conclusions: Data from this preliminary series suggests that the evening chronotype predominates in patients with IGE. Inquiring about chronotypes may be helpful in the initial diagnosis of IGE. More important, eveningness has been associated with chronic sleep deprivation, a well-known seizure precipitating factor in IGE, so its recognition may be important for clinical management. Reference 1.?Horne JA, Östberg O. A self-assessment questionnaire to determine morningness-eveningness in human circadian rhythms. Int J Chronobiol 1976;4:97?110. 1 Olga Bogdanova, 2 Henry Buchtel, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ; and 2 Psychiatry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: The Intracarotid Amytal testing (WADA test) has been used as part of the presurgical evaluation of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy(TLE). The purpose is to confirm language lateralization and identify patients at risk for memory impairment after the resective surgery. The ideal surgical candidate has better memory scores in the hemisphere contralateral to the expected surgery side. The concern is in cases with reversed WADA memory asymmetry scores. The memory outcome has been previously analyzed for patients with left anterior temporal lobectomies(ATL) and reversed scores. The significance of symmetrical WADA memory scores(irrespective of the side of surgery) and reversed WADA memory asymmetry scores for patients who undergo right ATL has not been previously evaluated. Methods: Patients were selected from those with temporal lobe epilepsy and who underwent complete presurgical evaluation at the University of Michigan Medical Center between 2000 and 2005. We included patients who had symmetrical and reversed WADA memory asymmetry scores and who were seizure free at least at one year follow up after the resective surgery. A total of 14 patients were identified. Age range was between 9 and 56 years at the time of the WADA test. Six patients were males. All patients underwent neuropsychometric evaluation as part of the presurgical evaluation and at three months after the resective surgery. Seven patients also had another set of neuropsychometric evaluation performed 12 to 13 months after the surgery date. Nine patients had symmetrical WADA memory scores and two of these patients had right temporal lobectomies. The other five patients had reversed WADA memory asymmetry scores. In this group, four patients underwent left temporal lobectomies. We compared 3 month post-operative verbal and pictorial memory change scores. Results: None of the patients with symmetrical WADA memory scores(n = 9) have shown any significant change in the memory outcome at the post-surgical neuropsychometric evaluation, irrespective of their site of resection. One patient with left temporal lobectomy showed slightly improved pictorial memory. All patients with reversed WADA memory asymmetry scores (n = 5) had a poorer verbal and/or pictorial memory outcome, despite the fact that they were also seizure free. The decline was considered statistically significant in all of them, again irrespective of the site of surgery. Conclusions: Dominant or non-dominant anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) patients with reversed WADA memory asymmetry scores are at significant risk for post-operative memory deficits, despite complete seizure control. However, symmetrical WADA memory scores do not pose a threat for either the verbal or the pictorial memory scores of the ATL patients. A larger cohort of patients and longer post-operative follow up may be useful to confirm these results. 1 Christine Dong, 1 Eric Pina-Garza, and 1 Bassel Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN; Neurology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN; and Neurology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Pentobarbital is a widely used for the treatment of refractory status epilepticus. The EEG is usually continuously monitored during pentobarbital administration and during the withdrawal period and is the basis for the decision to resume pentobarbital or continue its withdrawal. We observed a pattern of periodic sharp EEG discharges related to pentobarbital withdrawal. This pattern is transient with continued withdrawal. It is not associated with clinical seizure activity and is not predictive of recurrence of status epilepticus. This pattern is important to describe and recognize because it may result in unnecessary resumption of pentobarbital. Methods: We recognized a periodic pattern during recovery from pentobarbital coma in 5 patients. EEG was recorded intermittently in all, for 20?30 minutes every 8 hours in the first patient, using paper EEG, and for 5 minutes every 30 minutes for the remaining patients (using digital EEG recording). We reviewed the EEG pattern during pentobarbital withdrawal. We also reviewed the clinical history, including outcome in all patients. Results: The first patient received pentobarbital for increased intracranial pressure after traumatic brain injury and the other four received pentobarbital for refractory status epilepticus. During pentobarbital withdrawal all developed a pattern of sharply contoured periodic complexes, typically with a recurrence rate of one every 1?2 seconds. In the first patient, this was interpreted as electrographic status epilepticus. However, after several repeated trials of pentobarbital, it was realized that this may not be a seizure pattern and pentobarbital was fully withdrawn with no clinical seizure activity. With the remaining patients, the pattern was recognized earlier, thus avoiding prolonged pentobarbital treatment. In all patients, the periodic pattern evolved into more continuous EEG activity that was not ictal. This was associated with clinical recovery, though not necessarily to pre-status baseline. Conclusions: A periodic EEG pattern may occur in association with pentobarbital withdrawal. When such a pattern is not associated with clinical seizure activity, it should not be a reason to resume pentobarbital since it is usually not an ictal pattern. [figure 1] 1 Fariba Farhidvash, 1 Amir M. Arain, 2 Pradumna P. Singh, and 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ; and 2 Neurology, Meharry Medical College, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Access to healthcare is unsatisfactory in indigent patients with epilepsy. Multiple factors hinder in the access to healthcare including absence of insurance. Many epilepsy patients use the hospital emergency room as a primary or secondary source of care for their seizure disorder. Many indigent patients do not see an epilepsy specialist for long term care. We wished to find the factors that affect the access to healthcare in these indigent epilepsy patients. Methods: We obtained data of patients seen in the ER for seizures in 2002 and 2003, in two institutions, Vanderbilt University Hospital (VUH) and Metro Nashville General Hospital (MNGH), seeking to identify patients who had visited the emergency room more than once. Vanderbilt is a tertiary care institution while MNGH serves the more underserved population. We also collected insurance information of these patients, and compared them to the outpatient VUH epilepsy clinic data. We did a chart review to identify these patients who finally followed up in the epilepsy clinic. Results: A total of 702 patients visited the VUH ER and 446 patients visited the MNGH ER for seizures. Of the VUH patients, 125 patients visited the ER more than once. Of these patients who visited ER multiple times, 69 (55.2%) finally followed up in the epilepsy clinic and of those, 24 patients (34.8%) were already followed by an epileptologist. Patients who visited the ER mulitple times, 31 (25%) carried private or commercial insurance, 91 (73%) carried Medicare or Medicaid, and 3 had no insurance. The 69 patients who followed up in the clinic, 19 (61.3%) carried private insurance, 50 (55%) carried Medicare/Medicaid. The average duration between the first ER visit to the first clinic visit was 196 days with those who carried private insurance averaged 91 days and those with Medicare/Medicaid averaged 236 days. Of the 446 MGNH patients, 157 (35%) visited the ER more than once. Of these 157 patients, 36 (23%) finally followed up in the outpatient Neurology clinic. Of these patients who made multiple ER visits, 0.9% patients had commercial insurance, 38% carried Medicaid, 12% Medicare and 36% were self pay. None of the commercial insurance carriers followed up in clinic while 31 (86%) of the Medicaid/Medicare carriers and 3 (8%) of the uninsured patients had. The average duration of time between the first ER visit and the first clinic visit was 73 days, 71 days for the Medcare/Medicaid carriers and 84 days for the uninsured Conclusions: Among indegent patients using ER for treatment of epilepsy is not adequate and there is still considerable lack of long term follow up of seizures in outpatient setting. Overall this results in disparity of care in indigent patients and adds tremendous cost to society. This study emphasizes the importance of better epilepsy management and educational and social programs for those with epilepsy. 1 Jacqueline A. French, 2 Nancy R. Temkin, 3 Jeffrey S. Nye, and 3 Filip De Ridder ( 1 Department of Neurology, Hospital of University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ; 2 University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 3 Johnson  2) a simulation study with a model based on TPM data. Data were from six randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials with topiramate as adjunctive therapy (200?1000 mg/day) in refractory partial-onset seizures. Tn for 3, 6, 9, and 12 seizures (T3, T6, T9, T12) were estimated using Kaplan-Meier analyses. Cox proportional hazard regression, stratified by baseline 28-day seizure frequency (<6, 6?22, > 22), was used to estimate the hazard ratio for each study arm (dose) vs placebo. Simulation study was performed as 12-wk dose-ranging trial with 4-wk baseline assessing 6 doses to yield treatment effects (difference from placebo in median% seizure reduction) of 0?50%. Results: Tn analysis showed superiority of TPM over placebo, consistent with original analyses of median% seizure reduction. Simulation study results showed a linear relationship between Tn hazard ratio and median% seizure reduction. Tn analysis was generally less powerful than seizure rate analysis, although power increased with number of seizures (n≥6) and with stratification according to baseline seizure frequency. Adequate power of the stratified T6 analysis for detecting clinically meaningful treatment effects (30% difference from placebo) could be attained with a reasonable sample size (80 patients/arm). A study with a prospective baseline and 12-wk follow-up would require 36 subjects to achieve the same power. In TPM clinical trials, 80% of patients experienced their 6th seizure within 6 wks of study initiation. Conclusions: Stratified Tn analysis, with n = 6, can provide adequate power to detect clinically relevant effect sizes of an AED as adjunctive therapy in a sample of 80 patients with refractory partial-onset seizures. The potential advantages of reducing clinical trial duration from 16 wks to 6 wks and potentially eliminating the prospective baseline period must be weighed against potential disadvantages such as need for larger sample sizes. (Supported by Johnson  and 2 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth Unversity, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is a rare but devastating late neurological complication of measles infection characterized by a progressive encephalopathy, myoclonus, and focal neurologic deficits occuring 7?10 years after initial infection. Survival from onset is typically 1?3 years. There is no proven effective therapy. We report a 15-year old girl with SSPE who had marked improvement in atonic seizures and neurocognitive status with zonisamide and interferon-beta 1a. Methods: Case report. Results: A 15-year-old girl presented to our epilepsy center with seizures and cognitive decline. At 19 months, a febrile exanthem illness diagnosed as Kawasaki disease was treated with intravenous immunoglobulins. At age 13 she developed nocturnal frontal lobe complex partial seizures, successfully controlled with lamotrigine. Eighteen months later, her family noticed personality changes and inattentiveness. Cognitive decline continued over the next 8 months; full scale IQ decreased from 101 to 77. At age 15, she began to have atonic seizures and falls. Video EEG monitoring showed frequent atonic episodes, brief behavioral arrests with slow eye blinks, and myoclonic jerks, concurrent with periodic generalized high-voltage slow wave complexes occurring once every 5 ? 6 seconds. Laboratory data included markedly elevated IgG, IgG index, and IgG synthesis rate with positive CSF oligoclonal bands. Serum and CSF measles IgG were significantly elevated. MRI of the brain revealed subtle bilateral occipital white matter T2 hyperintensities. Functional MRI synchronized to the abnormal blinks showed increased BOLD signal and perfusion in bilateral putamina and cingulate cortex. Zonisamide 250 mg daily was added to her regimen. Atonic episodes remitted completely, and EEG 1 month later showed no periodic slow wave complexes. On isoprinosine 3000 mg/day, neurologic status remained stable for 6 months. Cognitive status then declined again (FSIQ 40, modified mini-mental status exam (MMSE) 20/57) and new MRI T2 hyperintense lesions appeared in bilateral basal ganglia. She was started on interferon-beta 1a 44mcg subcutaneously three times weekly. Her Neurologic Disability Index declined from 24% to 6%, and MMSE improved to 36/57. She continues to improve 1 year after subcutaneous interferon was initiated. Conclusions: Myoclonic and atonic seizures, hallmarks of SSPE, are usually refractory to standard antiepileptic drugs. Our case demonstrates a rapid and complete response to zonisamide which was sustained over nearly two years, suggesting a new avenue for therapy of these refractory seizures. In addition, our patient showed sustained improvement in neurocognitive function with subcutaneous interferon beta 1a. This therapy should be considered in SSPE patients who have the failed the current standards of care. 1 Christian P. Hansen, 1 René Mathiasen, 1 J?rgen Alving, 1 Birgitte H. Jensen, 1 Ellen H. Jensen, and 1 Signe Madsen ( 1 Management, Danish Epilepsy Centre, Dianalund, Dianalund, Denmark ) Rationale: Patient safety is of increasing concern in epilepsy centres. Various devices for detetction of epileptic seizures are available on the market. We decided to test the clinical value of bed alarms and pulse oxymeters in the Danish Epilepsy Centre, Dianalund. Methods: In-patients at increased risk of generalized convulsive seizures were supervised by video-cameras during the time spent in bed. The signals from the video-cameras were transmitted to a central supervision unit where a nurse was watching the screens with patients under supervision. In case of seizure, the supervising nurse notified the ward with the patient. The patient under supervision in bed carried a pulse oxymeter, and the bed was equipped with a seizure alarm. The staff in the ward registered alarms and compared with the messages from the nurse watching the patient on the screen. The sensitivity of the alarm (probability of alarming in case of seizure) and the occurrence of false alarms were registered. Patients were included from April 2004 to September 2005. In a second inclusion period from October 2005 to April 2006 we tried to improve the use of bed alarms by adjustment of alarm parameters. Results: In the first period 83 patients, aged 1?63 years, had 1332 epileptic seizures. The sensitivity of bed alarms was 18.7% in case of tonic-clonic seizures, 1.2% with tonic seizures, and 3.6% with focal motor seizures. The sensitivity of pulse oxymeters was 22.5% in tonic-clonic seizures, and 9.2% in tonic seizures. The sensitivity of both alarms were lower for other seizure types. The combined sensitivity of pulse oxymeters and bed alarms was 26% for tonic-clonic seizures and smaller for other seizure types. In average, there were 0.75 false alarms from the bed alarm per 24 hours, and 2.19 false alarms from the pulse oxymeters per 24 hours. In the second inclusion period it was not possible to improve the sensitivity or specificity of either alarm type. Conclusions: In our hands the combined use of bed alarms and pulse oxymeters detects a quarter of tonic-clonic seizures in epilepsy patients at increased seizure risk and a smaller fraction of other seizure types. There is a need for development of better technology for the provision of safety for epilepsy patients. 1 Lara E. Jeha, 1 Imad Najm, 2 Bill Bingaman, 1 Peter Widdess-Walsh, and 1 Hans Luders ( 1 Neurology, Section of Epilepsy, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE) is the second most common cause of intractable focal epilepsy. Yet, little is known about the predictors of surgical success with frontal lobectomy. Methods: We reviewed patients who underwent a frontal lobectomy at our institution between 1995 and 2003 for the treatment of intractable FLE. Endpoints included Engel score at last follow-up, and time to any seizure recurrence. Overall seizure freedom was assessed using a Kaplan-Meyer survival analysis, and multivariable logistic regression. Results: Seventy patients were identified. Thirty (43%) were female. Age at surgery ranged from one to 57 yrs(median 18.5 yrs), with a median of age at seizure onset of 6 yrs. Duration of follow-up ranged from one to 15 yrs (median 3.1 yrs). MRI showed frontal lobe lesions in 58%, and was normal in 26%. In 16% of the cases, MRI lesions extended beyond the frontal lobe, showing mesial temporal sclerosis in 8(12%). The most common etiology was a malformation of cortical development seen in 60% (with normal imaging in 29% of those), followed by tumor (19%), encephalomalacea from stroke or trauma (10%), cryptogenic with normal MRI and pathology (10%), and vascular malformation (1%). Thirty nine patients had at least one seizure recurrence during the whole duration of follow-up. Kaplan Meyer survival analysis estimated a 56% probability of seizure-freedom at 1 year, 45% at 3 years, and 30% at 5 years. [figure 1]Engel scores at the last follow-up were Engel 1 in 56%, Engel 2 in 7%, Engel 3 in 16%, and Engel 4 in 21%. Univariate screening identified mesial temporal sclerosis on preoperative MRI, extrafrontal MRI abnormalities, etiology, use of subdural electrodes, and immediate postoperative seizures as predictors of postoperative seizure recurrence. Predictors of seizure recurrence after frontal lobectomy Rate of Recurrence p-value MTS on MRI present 87.5% 0.04? absent 52.5% Extrafrontal MRI abnormality present 77.3% 0.015 absent 46.8% Etiology MCD with abnormal MRI 48.3% 0.033 MCD with normal MRI 91.7% Tumor 38.5% Cryptogenic 71.4% Encephalomalacea 57.4% Subdural electrodes used 63.8% 0.05? not used 39.1% Immediate postoperative seizures present 44.9% 0.007 absent 80.0% Only extrafrontal MRI abnormalities and immediate postoperative seizures remained significant upon using multiple logistic regression. Conclusions: Frontal lobectomy is an effective treatment in intractable FLE. Extrafrontal MRI abnormalities and immediate postoperative seizures identify the patient population with the worst outcome. 1 Sam A. Kabbani ( 1 Neurology, East Tennessee Neurology Clinic, P.C., Knoxville, TN ) Rationale: Use of a single broad-spectrum antiepileptic drug (AED) that is both efficacious and safe is optimal in epileptic patients. An AED displaying these properties and given as a first-line agent could eliminate trial and error of multiple therapies which often must be tried before the most effective therapy is determined. Levetiracetam (LEV) has previously shown efficacy and safety when used as monotherapy. Methods: Single-center, retrospective review of 98 epileptic patients (69 females, 29 males; mean age 39.5 years, rage 15?75 years) who were treated with LEV monotherapy over a one-year period. Medical records were reviewed for seizure type and etiology, history of prior AED use, imaging results, and LEV dosage. Efficacy and tolerability were assessed by reduction in seizure frequency and by reported adverse effects. Results: The most common seizure types were generalized (n = 49) and complex partial (with or without secondary generalization, n = 45). Fifty-one patients (52%) were given LEV as the first-line AED; 34 wre taking 1 AED and 13 were taking 2 AEDs at study initiation. The most frequently used AEDs included divalproex sodium (11%) and phenytoin (9%). LEV dosage was 3000 mg/day in 46 patients (47%) and 1500 mg/day in 36 (37%); titration to this dosage occurred over 1 week. The mean seizure reduction rate was 87.3%, with 53 patients becoming seizure free. An overall responder rate (≥50% seizure reduction) of 95% was noted. Thirty-four patients (35%) were able to discontinue 1 or more AEDs and were converted to LEV monotherapy. Clinical impression was good or excellent in 83 patients (85%). Of patients given LEV as first-line monothrapy, a mean seizure reduction of 87.6% was noted, with 32 patients becoming seizure free. The responder rate in the sub-group was 94% with 44 patients with a good or excellent clinical impression. Adverse events were reported in 7 patients overall (7%); 3 required discontinuation for itching/rash (1), dizziness/ataxia (1) or nausea (1). Conclusions: LEV showed excellent efficacy and tolerability in this group of patients when used as monotherapy. Further studies should explore the use of LEV in monotherapy, particularly as a first-line agent. (Supported by UCB Pharma, Inc.) 1 Peter Widdess-Walsh, 1 Prakash Kotagal, 2 Guiyun Wu, 1 Jeha Lara, and 1 Richard Burgess ( 1 Department of Neurology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Department of Nuclear Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Epileptic auras provide important information about focal epilepsy and its location. Patients with focal epilepsy also report multiple aura types but limited data exists as to the significance of the occurence of multiple auras in the same patient. If multiple auras represent multiple seizure types or ictal onset zones, surgical treatment may not prove successful. Methods: The epilepsy monitoring unit database of the Cleveland Clinic was searched for patients with more than one aura type classified according to the Cleveland Clnic seizure classification system between the years 1989 and 2005. Clinical, EEG, and imaging data was analyzed to determine the location of the epileptogenic lesion, and explore possible mechanisms for the phenomenon of multiple auras. Results: Thirty one patients were identified who experienced multiple auras during a given seizure. 90% of patients with more than one aura had seizures arising from the right/non-dominant hemisphere (n = 31). 100% of patients with at least 3 auras had seizures arising from the right/non-dominant hemisphere (n = 12). In two thirds of cases, the auras occurred as a sequence in the same seizure, and in one third the auras occurred simultaneously. 30/31 patients had seizures with preservation of awareness. EEG seizures remained restricted. Twenty of the patients had resective epilepsy surgery with a good outcome in 59%. Patients who did not have surgery were either not drug-resistant, lost to follow-up, or had tumor-related epilepsy. In one patient with seizures from both temporal lobes, right sided seizures were associated with multiple auras, and left sided seizures were associated with aphasic seizures with loss of awareness. Subdural EEG recordings in 6 patients showed either a ?jacksonian march? of sequential auras, or in one case, several ictal onset zones resulting in separate isolated auras. Ictal SPECT images in 6 patients with right-sided seizures showed a lack of activation of the basal ganglia and brainstem. Conclusions: Most patients who report multiple aura types have localized epilepsy in the non-dominant hemisphere, and are good surgical candidates. The most common mechanism for multiple auras may be a spreading but restricted EEG seizure activating sequential symptomatogenic zones, but without the ictal activation of deeper structures or contralateral spread to cause loss of awareness and amnesia for the auras. 1 Ki Hyeong Lee, 1 Yong D. Park, 2 Joseph R. Smith, and 2 Mark R. Lee ( 1 Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ) Rationale: Functional Hemispherectomy (FH) is performed in patients with intractable epilepsy and disabling hemiparesis due to diffuse hemispheric pathology such as perinatal stroke or diffuse cortical dysplasia (CD). EEG finding in relation to post-op outcome of FH has not been systematically evaluated in the previous reports. Methods: A retrospective analysis included all patients who underwent FH from Sep 91 to June 05 at the Medical College of Georgia. Surgery was performed exclusively by two authors (JRS and MRL) who shared the same surgical technique. Patients were followed at least one yr post-op. Seizure outcome was classified as seizure-free (SF) vs. non seizure-free (NSF). Interictal and ictal EEGs were classified as lateralizing (L) (ipsilateral to the pathology) vs. non-lateralizing (NL) (unlocalizing, contralateral to the pathology, or bilateral-independent onset). Demographic characteristics, etiology, MRI/PET, outcome, and complication were collected from the medical record. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 13 package. This study was approved by the institutional review board. Results: Total of 37 patients were included: M 18, F 19. Mean age of seizure onset was 3.4 yrs (0?26 yrs) while mean age of FH was 13.82 yrs (1?40 yrs). Most common etiology was perinatal stroke (40.5%, n = 15) followed by diffuse CD (32.4%, 12), RS (21.6%, 8), head trauma (2.7%, 1), and Sturge-Weber Syndrome (2.7%, 1). Overall surgical outcome was excellent: 81.1% (30/37) SF vs. 18.9% (7/37) NSF. SF outcome was not different between the different etiologies: stroke 73.3% SF (11/5) vs. CD 83.3% SF (10/12) vs. RS 100% SF (8/8). Interictal EEG was nonlateralizing (NL) in 18.9% (7/37) while ictal EEG in 35.1% (13/37). Iinterictal EEG pattern did not predict SF outcome: L 87.5% (21/24) vs. NL 69.2% (9/13), Fisher's Exact Test; p = 0.6. Ictal EEG pattern did not predict SF outcome either: L 87.5% (21/24) vs. 69.2% (9/13), p = 0.18. In addition, within the specific etiologic groups, interictal or ictal EEG did not predict the outcome. Age at the time of surgery tended to be younger in the SF group: 13.1 ± 11.2 (SF) vs. 16.8 ± 5.8 (NSF), t-test p = 0.087. Conclusions: Our data showed that interictal or ictal EEG pattern does not predict the surgical outcome. Our study suggests that selection of candidiates for functional hemispherectomy should be based on clinical and radiological evidence, rather than scalp EEG. 1 Anthony Marson, 2 David Smith, 1 Catrin Tudur Smith, 1 Paula Williamson, 1 Ann Jacoby, and 1 David Chadwick ( 1 Division of Neurological Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom ; and 2 Department of Neurology, The Walton Centre for Neurology  and 2 Epileptology, Kempenhaeghe Epilepsy Centre, Heeze, Brabant, Netherlands ) Rationale: Ictal asystole has been hypothesized to be a mechanism for SUDEP. The aim of this study is to analyse the presence of risk factors for SUDEP in a population of patients with a history of ictal asystole. Methods: Risk factors for SUDEP were determined in a submitted systematic review: young age, male sex, early onset, generalized tonic-clonic seizures and the presence of brain lesion. We than performed a literature search (pubmed, embase, cochrane library and references) for cases of ictal asystole and checked them for the presence of these risk factors. Electrolyte therapy Summary Patient Age Diagnosis Seizure Type Other AEDs Lyte Therapy Outcome 1 ?9 Familial Dysautonomia, symptomatic generalized Atypical Absence TPM 3 years Seizure free 2 ?7 Dysautonomia, symptomatic generalized Atypical Absence TPM 3 years Seizure free 3 ?7 Dysautonomia, symptomatic generalized Atypical Absence TPM 3 years Seizure free 4 ?6 Idiopathic generalized Absence, GTC ZNA,OXC,CLZ 6 months Stopped absence, persist GTC 5 28 JME myoclonic, GTC none 1 year seizure free 6 13 Symptomatic generalized Absence, tonic, myoclonic LEV,PHT,LMG 1 year 90% seizure reduction 7 13 Symptomatic generalized tonic, GTC PB,LEV,ZNA 3 years Stop clusters, #sz unchanged 8 13 Symptomatic generalized tonic, GTC VPA,TPM,OXC 3 weeks no change Results: We identified 41 cases of ictal asytole. Male sex: n = 39, 71%. Young age n = 33, 66%. Generalized seizures n = 10, 70%. Early onset n = 20, 80%. Structural brainlesion n = 31, 54%. Conclusions: The occurrence of the risk factors is similar in both populations. The statistical significance wil be discussed using a population of epilepsy patients, a population of patients known with ictal bradycardia and a population of patients with a history of asystole. 1 Kathryn A. O'Hara, 1 Tom Boro, and 1 John M. Pellock ( 1 Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: The emergency outpatient management of seizures varies significantly among EMS providers, depending on established protocols and levels of training/experience. To establish the clinical care provided by a highly trained EMS unit we reviewed records of the Richmond Ambulance Authority (RAA). Methods: The RAA is an all Advanced Life Support service operating in an urban environment. Using a dynamic deployment method matching resources to demand, they field up to 22 units within Richmond. In 2005 31,100 patients were transported including 1,159 seizures. All seizure related calls were reviewed. Of the 1,159 calls there were 539 unique social security numbers. Transports per person ranged from 1 (67%) to 17 (0.2%). Diazepam (IV) is the recommended 1st line therapy. IV attempts on pediatric (<15 years) and adult (>15years) patients that required medication were compared. Results: Priority 1 calls averaged 40 minutes from dispatched time to arrival at the emergency department(ED). The average time from the scene to the ED was 7 minutes. Of the 1,159 seizure calls, 625 patients (54%) were transported to the ED; 85 patients (13.6% of those transported) were under the age of 15. The success rate for starting an IV on seizure patients requiring diazepam was 62% on the 1st attempt, 16% on the second attempt and 19% on the 3rd attempt. In 3% of seizing patients an IV could not be established. There was no difference between adult and pediatric IV success rate. Conclusions: Rapid IV access is not always possible in patients who are actively seizing. Alternative forms of anticonvulsant treatment need to be available for EMS. 1 Juan G. Ochoa ( 1 Neurology, University of Florida, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: Alteration of extracellular volume, ion concentration and osmolarity may affect the epileptogenic process. Oral hydration with a slight hypotonic solution helps to mantain cerebral perfusion and may prevent abrupt changes in the intersticial electrolyte concentration that may trigger epileptic activity. This therapy may help stabilize the nonsynaptic mechanisms associated with seizure activity. Methods: We treated empirically eight patients with refractory focal or generalized epilepsy using a rice-based oral electrolyte solution therapy at a dose ranging between one to two liters per day, in addition to the standard AEDs. Six other patients fail to comply with therapy or seizure record keeping and were excluded from this report. Concomittant AEDs were either adjusted or discontinued at discretion of the treating physician. Serum electrolytes were obtained both at baseline and during electrolyte therapy. Results: Three children with familial dysautonomia and refractory absence epilepsy became seizure free for one year after therapy with Ceralyte90. All three patients remain on Ceralyte90 therapy for four years. There were occassional absence seizures after AED discontinuation.One patient with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy not able to tolerate traditional AEDs became seizure free on electrolyte therapy for at least one year. One patient with symptomatic generalized refractory epilepsy had over 90% seizure reduction over one year after electrolyte therapy. One child with refractory symptomatic generalized epilesy stpped atypical absence seizures but persist with uncontrolled generalized convultions. One patient with symptomatic generalized epilesy had reduction of cluster seizures preventing hospital admissions after electrolyte therapy through his gastric tube. One patient with symptomatic generalized epilepsy did not improve and discontinued treatment after three weeks of therapy. No significant side effects or complications have been observed during therapy in any of these patients. Conclusions: Rice-based oral electrolyte hydration is a safe novel therapy that may help control seizures in patients with refractory epilepsy. A controlled study is needed to validate this finding. Seizure freedom with empirical treatment in four patients with atypical absences suggests a possible stronger effect in this type of seizures. 1 Zhiyi Sha, 1 Manjari Tripathi, 1 Cammy Chicota, 1 Steve Rogers, 1 Jerome Engel, and 1 Susan Bookheimer ( 1 Neurology, UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Language and memory preferentially develop in the same hemisphere; thus, verbal memory impairment is typically associated with left medial temporal lobe dysfunction while non-verbal memory impairment suggests a right hemisphere focus. However, in patients with left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, this association may not be well established. Occasionally patients with a clear left hippocampus seizure focus and an apparently normal right hippocampus fail the Wada test with left side injection. We hypothesized that in left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, a late age of onset may account for these unpredicted Wada failures. Specifically, we reasoned that during the critical years when language develops and becomes established in the left hemisphere, strong connections with the left hippocampus are formed preferentially; in early onset left temporal lobe epilepsy, connections are strengthened with the right hippocampus when the left is dysfunctional. After the critical period of language development (generally accepted as ≤ 7 years old), we hypothesized that connections from left hemisphere language cortex to right medial temporal lobe would be more difficult to establish, and this connection is necessary for verbal encoding of non-verbal items. Therefore, in patients with late onset (≥ 8 years old) left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, we predicted that the right hippocampus may not be able to support memory after the left hippocampus loses its function secondary to longstanding seizures. To test this hypothesis we studied the relationship between left hemisphere Wada failures and age of seizure onset. Methods: We reviewed data on 69 patients who were admitted for pre-surgical evaluations for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Wada tests were performed as part of the pre-surgical evaluation. Forty-two patients had left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and 27 patients had right mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Results: Of the 42 left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, 18 had an early onset (≤ 7 years old) and 24 had a late onset (≥ 8 years old). All 18 early onset patient passed the Wada test with left sided injection. Nineteen of the 24 late onset patient passed the Wada test and 5 of the 24 failed (less than 60% recognition memory). The passing rate of the Wada test in early onset left mesial temporal lobe cases was significantly higher than the late onset group (p < 0.05). In the right mesial temporal lobe epilepsy patients, there was no significant difference between the early and late onset groups (1 out of 10 in the early onset and 1 out of 17 in the late onset did not pass the Wada test). Conclusions: Age of seizure onset may help to predict the Wada failure in left temporal lobe epilepsy. A greater incidence of Wada failures in late onset patients with left mesial temporal epilepsy compared to early onset patients suggests that memory laterality develops in concert with language development. 1 David Smith, 2 Anthony Marson, 2 Catrin Tudur Smith, 2 Paula Williamson, 2 Ann Jacoby, and 2 David Chadwick ( 1 Department of Neurology, The Walton Centre for Neurology  and 2 Division of Neurological Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Valproate is widely accepted as a drug of first choice for patients with generalised onset seizures and is recommended for patients with seizures that are difficult to classify because of its broad spectrum of efficacy. It is thought that lamotrigine and topiramate also possess broad spectrum activity. SANAD is the first study to compare the longer term effects of these drugs. Methods: SANAD is an NHS HTA sponsored un-blinded randomized controlled trial. Arm B recruited patients for whom valproate was considered to be standard treatment and were randomized to valproate, lamotrigine or topiramate. Outcomes were time to treatment failure and time to 1-year remission. Results: 716 patients were recruited. At randomization the percentages with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (IGE), unclassified epilepsy, partial epilepsy and other generalised syndromes were 62%, 27%, 7% and 4% respectively. 239, 239, 238 children and adults were randomized to lamotrigine, topiramate and valproate respectively. Overall, for time to treatment failure valproate was significantly superior to topiramate Hazard ratio (HR 95% CI) 0.64 (0.48, 0.84), but there was no significant difference between valproate and lamotrigine 0.80 (0.60, 1.07). For patients with an IGE valproate was significantly superior to both lamotrigine 0.65 (0.45, 0.95) and topiramate 0.53 (0.37, 0.76). For time to 12 month remission valproate was significantly superior to lamotrigine overall 1.31 (1.06, 1.62) and for the subgroup with an IGE 1.48 (1.14, 1.93). But there was no significant difference between valproate and topiramate in either analysis. Conclusions: Valproate is better tolerated than topiramate and more efficacious than lamotrigine. Valproate is the drug of first choice for patients with generalised and unclassified epilepsies. (Supported by NHS HTA Programme.) 1 Andrea Sneider, 1 Marianna V. Spanaki-Varelas, 1 Lori A. Schuh, 1 Brien J. Smith, and 2 Lonni Schultz ( 1 Neurology, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI ; and 2 Biostatistics and Research Epidemiology, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: There is a delay from the onset of epilepsy to epilepsy surgery of approximately 20 years. The aim of this study was to indentify if a delay in referring patients for epilepsy sugery is attributed to different views that neurologists have for refractory epilepsy. Through a survey, we assessed neurologists' definition of medically refractory epilepsy and their decision-making process on when to refer their patients for epilepsy surgery. Methods: A 10-item survey was developed and mailed to all practicing Michigan neurologists outside our institution. Surveys were anonymous but coded for tracking purposes. A nominal incentive was offered to respondents. Descriptive statistics were used in analysis. Results: Surveys were sent to 415 neurologists, 84 neurologists responded for a response rate of 20.24%. The majority of respondents defined medically refractory epilepsy as failing 3 monotherapy antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) trials and at least 2 polytherapy trials. Nineteen percent said that all approved AEDs had to be failed before considering a patient medically refractory. The vast majority (85%) of respondents did not feel failure of a vagus nerve stimulator (VNS) was required before labeling a patient refractory. However, the majority (62%) of the respondents thought that VNS offers a > 10% chance of seizure-freedom. Our survey showed that 82% of the participants had referred patients for surgery and 73% of respondents felt that epilepsy surgery is under recommended overall. The majority (70%) of neurologists would not consider patients < 10 or > 60 years old as appropriate surgical candidates. The majority stated that their patients should not be considered for surgery unless seizures have been present for a minimum of two years and have a frequency of monthly or greater. Almost 50% percent of respondents were not satisfied with the level of communication from epilepsy centers, and one-third did not have their patients returned to their care in a timely fashion. Another third reported serious complications resulting from surgery. Conclusions: These results provide further insight into the delay seen between onset of epilepsy and time to surgery. The majority of respondents concluded that children less than 10 years of age are inappropriate surgical candidates. In addition, nearly 50% percent of respondents were not satisfied with the level of communication from epilepsy centers, and one-third did not have their patients returned in a timely fashion. Better education of neurologists, as well as better communication from comprehensive epilepsy centers could shorten the time to referral, increase the number of referrals and ultimately improve the lives of our patients. (Supported by Henry Ford Hospital Neurology Department.) 1 Arnoldo Soto, and 2 Renata D.C. Van Woensel ( 1 Unidad de Neurologia, Hospital Domingo Luciani, El Llanito, Caracas, Venezuela ; and 2 Epilepsy Department, Cyberonics Europe, Zaventem, Belgium ) Rationale: The Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) is widely known as one of the most severe and prognostically unfavourable epileptic conditions. When medications fail, nonpharmacologic treatments should be considered such as the ketogenic diet, epilepsy surgery (corpus callosotomy), and vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) Therapy. Methods: A retrospective analysis of data from Cyberonics' International Patient Registry showed 29 patients (18 male, 11 female) with LGS who were treated with vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) Therapy between May 1994 and September 2001. Patients had a mean age of 16.6 years (range, 4?34). A total of 5 patients were institutionalized, and 7 patients had a history of callosotomy. Twenty-six patients (89.6%) were mentally retarded/developmentally delayed. Patients were taking an average of 2.45 antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) per patient. Mean follow-up was 48.6 months. Data related to seizure reduction, AEDs and quality of life (QoL) were analysed. Results: There was a total median seizure reduction of 60%, and a total mean seizure reduction of 45.9% (p < 0.0001). A total of 41.4% of the patients (n = 12) had ≥ 50% seizure reduction. A reduction in the total number of AEDs was also observed (?0.52 AEDs/patient; p = 0.0293). Median stimulation parameters at last follow-up visit were: output current, 1.25 mA; pulse width, 500 ?s; frequency, 30 Hz; time ?on?, 30 sec; time ?off?, 5 minutes. Six patients (20.7%) reported that the magnet was always or most of the time effective in aborting or reducing the intensity and/or duration of their seizures. QoL improvements were more pronounced for alertness (48.3%), post-ictal state (37.9%) and cluster seizures (34.5%). Conclusions: These results show that VNS Therapy allowed a significant reduction in seizure frequency and in total number of AEDs in this patient population with LGS. VNS Therapy was also associated with QoL improvements. 1 Michael J. Van Putten, and 1 Maurice H. Van Putten ( 1 Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Medisch Spectrum Twente/University of Twente, Enschede, Netherlands; and Massachusetts Institute of Technology?Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory, MIT, NW17?161, Cambridge, MA ) Rationale: Increased insight into the ictal phenomena that occur in epilepsy, such as the characterization of dynamic regimes during status epilepticus, adds to the store of knowledge of abnormal brain behavior and may assist in improved patient care, including appropriate seizure termination paradigms. We present a detailed quantitative analysis of ictal phenomena in four patients suffering from a non-convulsive status epilepticus (SE), in whom the EEG shows burst-like patterns of epileptiform discharges (durations 2?30 s) punctuated by low-voltage ?flat periods' with a duration of 1?60 s. Methods: Epileptiform burst-like transients were identified from the power envelope of the EEG signal. Subsequently, correlations between initial phases of all possible combinations of the epileptiform burst-like transients were determined. In addition, histograms of the durations of the ictal events and the interictal periods were created. Quantitative analysis of burst duration and inter-burst intervals was performed by evaluation of the distribution of the burst durations and inter-burst intervals. Given the assumed nonlinear nature of the ictal state and the discrete nature of the bursts and the IBI, potential power law behavior was studied. Results: Histograms of the duration of the epileptiform discharges showed a power-law (n = 2) or bimodal (n = 2) distribution of burst durations, with power-law behavior for the inter-burst intervals, with slopes between ?1 and ?2, suggesting the presence of type III or on-off intermittency. Analysis of the epileptiform bursts indicates the presence of different, isolated brain states (bursts), that often recur in time (45?99% recurrence rate). Figure 1 illustrates the morphology of various pairs of recurrent epileptiform discharges. Left (A-C): data from patient G and Right (D-F) from patient W. The initial portions of the pairs of traces shown are similar, with divergence of later waveforms (red and blue, respectively). These tracings illustrate qualitatively the sensitive dependence on the initial conditions, ? one of the characteristics of nonlinear systems. Conclusions: The presence of intermittency and the power-law distribution of the inter-burst intervals during non-convulsive status epilepticus are indications of nonlinear dynamics. Bursts of epileptiform discharges during a non-convulsive SE are manifestations of intermittency with multiple, recurring, brain states. [figure 1] 1 Dominique Parain, and 2 Renata Dias de Carvalho Van Woensel ( 1 Service de Neurophysiologie, Hopital Charles-Nicolle, Rouen, France ; and 2 Cyberonics, Europe ) Rationale: Epilepsy is very common in tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and occurs in 80 to 90% of affected individuals during their lifetime. Although not completely understood, the incidence of epilepsy is thought to relate to the neuropathologic features of the disorder, including cortical tubers and other dysgenetic features. Methods: Analysis of data from Cyberonics' International Patient Registry showed 90 patients (53 male, 37 female) with TSC and medically refractory epilepsy who were treated with adjunctive VNS Therapy. Patients had a mean age of 16.7 (±12.00) years. Six (6.7%) patients were institutionalized. Five (5.5%) patients had a prior callosotomy, and 8 (8.9%) patients had a history of lobectomy. Mean follow-up was 32.7 ± 15.37 months (median: 34.05 months). Epilepsy was localized in 47 (52.2%) cases; 20 patients (22.2%) had generalized seizures, and 14 (15.5%) had Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Other types of seizures occurred in 22 (24.4%) patients. Data on seizure reductions, magnet use and quality of life (QoL) were collected. Results: There was a median seizure reduction of 59.4% for the entire patient population at the last follow-up visit (p-value < 0.0001; Wilcoxon's paired signed rank test). Seizure reductions ≥ 50% occurred in 56.7% of the patients. Magnet use was reported in 67.8% of the cases (n = 61). According to 23 patients (25.5%), the magnet was always or most of the time effective in aborting or reducing the intensity and/or duration of their seizures. Another 26.7% of the patients (n = 24) reported that the magnet had some effectiveness. More than 50% of the patients reported improvements in alertness and post-ictal state. Conclusions: Adjunctive VNS Therapy was effective for the treatment of medically refractory seizures associated with TSC, with a significant median seizure reduction of 59.4%. Seizure reductions ≥ 50% were reported in 56.7% of the patients. QoL improvements were most pronounced for alertness and post-ictal state. 1 Imran I. Ali, 1 Nabeel A. Herial, 2 Terrance Horrigan, 1 Leah Kellough, and 1 Gretchen E. Tietjen ( 1 Neurology, Medical University of Ohio, Toledo, OH ; and 2 Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical University of Ohio, Toledo, OH ) Rationale: There is considerable evidence that older antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) such as phenobarbital and phenytoin adversely affect bone health. However, data regarding newer AEDs such as levetiracetam is lacking. We, therefore, studied the effects of levetirecetam on bone density, vitamin D and osteocalcin levels. Methods: After IRB approval patients on levetiracetam monotherapy for greater than six months were enrolled. Sixteen patients (eight men and eight women) agreed to participate in the study. A detailed questionnaire was used to review medical history. Osteocalcin were measured by chemiluminescent immunoassay and and 1, 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels by a radioimmunoassay. Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) was performed using Hologic System. Results: The mean age of these patients was 37 years (range 20?66 years). Mean duration of therapy with levetirecetam as monotherapy was 27 months (range 6?60 months). The mean serum 1, 25 hydroxy-vitamin D level was 42.5 pg/mL (range 17?100 pg/mL). None of these patients had an abnormally low vitamin D level noted. Mean serum osteocalcin level was 6.4 ng/mL (range 1.8?14.1). Four of the sixteen (25%) of the patients had elevated osteocalcin levels.Two of these had mildly abnormal bone density measurements when compared to normal young adults matched for gender (t score). All four had previous exposure to other AEDs including phenytoin, sodium valproate, carbamazepine and phenobarbital. All sixteen patients underwent DEXA scan. None of the patients had evidence of osteopenia or osteoporosis when compared to age and sex matched controls (z score > -2.0). Borderline abnormal t scores were noted in two patients at lumbar spine level who also had elevated osteocalcin levels. However, these patients had been treated with multiple AEDs prior to being on keppra monotherapy. A significant positive linear correlation was noted between serum 1, 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels and bone mineral density. (r = 0.54, p < 0.05). Conclusions: Levetiracetam does not appear to be associated with a significant decrease in vitamin D levels or bone mineral density. Elevation of osteocalcin levels, implying increased bone turnover was noted in four patients but this finding alone is of unclear clinical significance and requires further study. Slight reduction in BMD in two patients can potentially be explained by previous, prolonged exposure to other AEDs known to cause bone loss. This confounding variable needs to be considered in all cross-sectional studies such as ours in assessing bone mineral density with newer AEDs. Controlled prospective studies in patients with new onset seizures may be a better method of studying effects of newer AEDs on bone mineral density. (Supported by UCB Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Carl W. Bazil, 1 Timothy DaGiau, and 1 Elisa A. Salerni ( 1 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: Sleep disturbances may be more common in epilepsy patients, potentially resulting in decreased memory, attention, and alertness as well as increased seizures. However, sleep problems are frequently overlooked, and the actual prevalence of sleep problems (in general and in epilepsy) is not well understood. This prospective study looked at sleep problems in an epilepsy referral center using a standardized questionairre, and compared scores with subjects accompanying epilepsy patients who did not have epilepsy. Methods: All patients with epilepsy (PWE) seen as inpatients or outpatients at an epilepsy referral center were invited to participate. Questionnaires included basic demographic information, the MOS sleep scale, and questions about sleep hygiene. Companions without epilepsy were also surveyed as controls. PWE had seizure diagnosis verified by treating physicians. The study was approved by the institutional review board. Results: 187 surveys were returned. Average age was 45 years for PWE, 47 years for controls. 50% of PWE were women compared with 62% of controls. Nearly all PWE were being treated with anticonvulsant drugs. PWE scored significantly higher on the sleep adequacy subscale of the MOS sleep scale, reflecting worse sleep (53 ± 2 vs. 43 ± 3). There were no significant differences in subscales measuring sleep somnolence, optimal sleep, awakening short of breath, or overall sleep problems index although subjects with epilepsy scored worse in all of these. Subjects with epilepsy more commonly reported signs of insomnia (43% vs 34%), restless legs syndrome/periodic limb movements (37% vs 25%), and sleep apnea (43% vs 34%) than control subjects, but controls more commonly reports excessive daytime sleepiness (46% for control vs 37% for PWE). None of these differences were statistically significant. PWE slept significantly longer than controls during the week (6.9 ± 0.1 vs. 6.2 ± .22 hrs) but not on weekends. Subjects in both groups had signs of poor sleep hygiene, particularly including use of alcohol shortly before bedtime. Conclusions: In this relatively small sample, sleep adequacy was more impaired in epilepsy patients than in their companions without epilepsy. Other measures suggested increased sleep problems in PWE but did not reach statistical significance. It may be that, with a larger sample, differences between these two groups can be clarified. More objective evaluations, including evaluation by sleep specialists and polysomnography would be needed to idenify the actual frequency of specific sleep disorders. PWE slept longer on average; it was not clear whether this was due to medication, employment status, or other factors. Both groups had signs of poor sleep hygiene, suggesting the need for education regarding sleep in PWE and in the general population. 1 Annette M. Chihorek, 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil, and 1 Beth A. Malow ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Although the incidence of new-onset seizures is much higher in older adults than in any other age group, the etiology remains unknown in about 45% (Epilepsia, 34(3): 453?68, 1993). One possible etiological factor is untreated obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), which can lead to sleep fragmentation and chronic sleep deprivation, potentially facilitating seizures in susceptible individuals (Neurology, 48(5):1389?94, 1997). Methods: To determine whether OSA is more common in individuals with later-onset seizures or worsening of seizure control in later life, we performed a cross-sectional study of adults 50 years or older presenting to a tertiary center epilepsy clinic. Patients with provoked seizures, associated neurological disease, or unreliable seizure histories were excluded. An epilepsy specialist blinded to the study results classified each subject into one of two groups. Group 1: -? Seizure-onset before age 50 with stable or improved seizure frequency at or after age 50 Group 2: -? Seizure-onset before age 50 with increased seizure frequency at or after age 50 OR -? Seizure-onset at age 50 or older Each subject underwent one-night polysomnography. The studies were reviewed by a sleep specialist blinded to the epilepsy histories. The number of apneas and hypopneas per hour of sleep (apnea-hypopnea index; AHI) was calculated. Results: Of 290 patients screened, 135 met inclusion criteria, and 21 consented to participate. Epilepsy syndromes included partial epilepsy of temporal lobe (15) or frontal lobe (3) origin, idiopathic generalized (2), and unspecified (1). 1 Comparison of Means for Group 1 (Stable Seizures) and Group 2 (New or Worsening Seizures) Group 1 n = 10 Group 2 n = 11 p AHI 3.1 (1.8) 23.2 (26.2) .002* Age 57.1 (7.0) 58.0 (9.7) .81 Gender (%Male) 20 (42) 82 (40) .003* BMI 26.6 (6.0) 27.6 (5.3) .67 Neck Circum (in) 14.8 (1.8) 16.1 (1.5) .09 #AEDs 1.8 (0.6) 1.5 (0.5) .32 Mostly Nocturnal Sz's 4 2 .36 ESS 5.9 (5.3) 11.6 (3.6) .009* SA-SDQ score 12.6 (3.7) 16.3 (4.1) .04* () = SD The two groups were similar in age, BMI, number of AEDs currently used, and frequency of nocturnal seizures. Group 2 had more men and a higher neck circumference. Group 2 had significantly higher AHIs, as well as higher scores on Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and Sleep Apnea section of the Sleep Disorders Questionnaire (SA-SDQ). [figure 1] Conclusions: The AHI was higher in the group with either new seizures or increased seizures, suggesting that OSA may play a role in facilitating seizures in this older population. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation of America Clinical Research and Training Fellowship Program through the Roger F. and Edna F. Evans Fund.) 1 Alejandro De Marinis, 2 Francisco Bustamante, 1 Claudia Asmad, 1 Loreto Olate, 2 Francisca Grob, 2 Macarena Parker, 3 Ines Delgado, 1 Vilma Ojeda, 1 Veronica Fernandez, 1 Monica Gonzalez, 1 Ada Chicharro, 1 Jorge Lasso, 1 Claudia Passig, 1 Manuel Lavados, and 4 Andres M. Kanner ( 1 Epilepsy Center, Chilean League Against Epilepsy, Santiago, Chile ; 2 Faculty of Medicine, University of the Andes, Santiago, Chile ; 3 Faculty of Medicine, Clinica Alemana ? Development University, Santiago, Chile ; and 4 Department of Neurology, Rush Medical Center, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Depression is the most common psychiatric comorbidity in epilepsy, with major impact in quality of life. Recent publications raise concerns of underrecognition of depression in patients with epilepsy. This issues have not been systematically assesed in chilean patients with epilepsy. We evaluate the prevalence and underrecognition of depression in patients with epilepsy attending the epilepsy clinic of the Chilean League Against Epilepsy Methods: We evaluated 200 consecutive adult patients with epilepsy. Depression was diagnosed using a validated CIDI diagnostic interview. The clinical recognition of depression was determined by inspection of medical records. All patients gave their written informed consent. Results: A diagnosis of Major Depression was established in 44/200 patients (22%). In 33/44 (75%) depression was unrecognized. 21/44 (47.7%) have been seizure free for the last year. Conclusions: Depression is highly prevalent and underrecognized in chilean patients with epilepsy. Validated, simple and cost effective screening instruments for the detection of depression would be a major contribution to improve quality of life of patients with epilepsy. 1 A. James Fessler, 1 Robert A. Gross, and 1 John T. Langfitt ( 1 Neurology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY ) Rationale: The SCL-90-R is a self-report inventory that assesses the severity of a number of different types of psychiatric symptoms. We have previously shown that patients with psychogenic, non-epileptic attacks (PNEA) have higher scores on somatization and anxiety indices as measured by this inventory compared to patients with epilepsy. There were no differences between these two groups on measures of paranoia (PA) and psychoticism (PS). These differences may have been underestimated because of the degree of symptom reporting. Patients with epilepsy may have higher scores on these indices, as peri-ictal symptoms may mimic psychiatric disease in select patients. Methods: We retrospectively identified consecutive, adult patients (>17 years of age) who were evaluated at the Strong Epilepsy Center. Two hundred and ninety-two patients completed the SCL-90-R prior to an initial clinic visit between 2001 and 2004 and underwent subsequent video-EEG monitoring. All patients were interviewed by a psychiatrist or psychologist during the admission. One hundred and sixty-six patients were female. One hundred and seventy-six (63.7%) patients were diagnosed with epilepsy and 94 (32.2%) with PNEA. Patients with other non-epileptic events or both PNEA and seizures were excluded. To control for patients who reported multiple somatic symptoms, patients with high positive symptoms total (PST) scores (>65) were excluded from this analysis. Results: One hundred and twenty-four patients with epilepsy and 56 patients with PNEA were identified. Of the psychogenic patients, 6 (10.7%) had an elevated (≥65) PS score, 3 (5.4%) had an elevated (≥65) PA score and in 3 (5.4%) patients, both were elevated. Nineteen (15.3%) epilepsy patients had an elevated PS score and 10 (8.1%) had an elevated PA score. In 4 (3.2%) patients, both indices were elevated. All of the patients with an elevated PS score had partial onset seizures with 14/19 (73.7%) having temporal lobe epilepsy, 1 (5.3%) with frontal lobe epilepsy and 4 (21.1%) with hemispheric onset seizures without further localization. Three patients had ictal hallucinations, 2 had fear as a prominent component of the aura and 2 had post-ictal psychiatric symptoms including hallucinations and aggression. Conclusions: No statistically significant differences between patients with epilepsy and PNEA were seen on psychoticism and paranoia indices when patients with high symptoms reporting were excluded. Care must be taken in patients with epilepsy when administering psychiatric batteries, as associated ictal and peri-ictal symptoms may be mistaken for underlying psychiatric disease. 1,2 James D. Geyer, 3 Paul R. Carney, and 1 Stephenie C. Dillard ( 1 The Sleep Program, Southern Sleep Specialists, Tuscaloosa, AL ; 2 Department of Neurology and Sleep Medicine, The University of Alabama College of Community Health Sciences, Tuscaloosa, AL ; and 3 Department of Pediatrics, Neurology, Neuroscience, and Bioengineering, The University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological movement disorder occurring in 10?15% of the general population. The prevalence of RLS increases with advancing age and is more common in several neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease. Epilepsy is also a common neurological disorder with significant associated morbidity and impact on quality of life. Any disorder which adversely affects quality of life may further compound the problems associated with epilepsy. We report the severity and frequency of RLS in patients with localization-related epilepsy. Methods: All epilepsy patients seen in the outpatient clinic over a one month period were screened for movement disorders. Patients with severe language impairment, cognitive impairment and stroke were excluded from this study population. Fifty-one consecutive patients with localization-related (complex partial) epilepsy who met inclusion criteria were seen in the outpatient clinic during this period. Each patient was evaluated with the International Restless Legs Study Group (IRSLSG) questionnaire, NIH RLS diagnostic criteria and comprehensive sleep screening. Restless legs syndrome quality of life questionnaires were also administered to a subset of those patients. Results: Restless legs occurred in 14 of 51 (28%) of the localization-related epilepsy patients. Thirteen of the 14 patients reported at least moderate impact on quality of life parameters related to RLS. An insufficient number of patients with primary generalized epilepsy were screened for adequate statistical analysis during the study period. A number of anti-epileptic agents were used in this study population. Based on patient reported histories, there appears to be a trend toward improvement of RLS symptoms following treatment with carbamazepine, gabapentin, pregabilin, and lamotrigine. Some patients reported worsening of symptoms with valproate and phenytoin. Since a number of anti-epileptic drugs were used in this patient population, there were insufficient numbers of patients treated with each medication for reliable statistical analysis. Conclusions: We identified RLS in patients with epilepsy at a frequency that exceeds the general population. Furthermore, these patients were more likely to have moderate to severe RLS than would typically be seen in patients of similar age, and most reported at least moderate impact on quality of life. It is likely that there are differences in the interaction between RLS and various anti-epileptic medications. More detailed analysis of the effect of medication selection as well as quality of life parameters related to RLS is needed. 1,2 Sheryl R. Haut, 1,2 Jonathan H. Masur, 3 Mindy Katz, 1,2 Edith Miller, and 2,3 Richard B. Lipton ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Management Center, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; 2 Department of Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; and 3 Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstien College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: The age specific incidence of epilepsy appears to be highest during old age. Comorbidities of seizures in the elderly are expected to differ from those in younger patients. To explore these differences, we examined the prevalence of cognitive loss, depression and sleep disorders in elderly patients with epilepsy. Methods: Subjects were recruited from the Epilepsy Management Center at Montefiore Medical Center, and the Einstein Aging Study, an NIH-funded longitudinal study of elderly individuals. Cases were > = 65 years of age with a diagnosis of epilepsy confirmed by an epileptologist, and were paired with age and gender matched controls without a history of seizures. Testing administered to all subjects included the Blessed Information Memory and Concentration (BIMC) test; Prime-MD Depression and Anxiety Scale; and Medical Outcomes Study Sleep Scale. Results: Data were analyzed for 64 subjects. Cases with epilepsy had significantly higher mean BIMC scores (6.3) than controls (1.2) (p < 0.0001). Mean Prime-MD Depression scores were significantly worse for cases (4.2) than controls (.79) (p = 0.006) with six of 32 cases (18%) meeting screening criteria for depression, while anxiety scores were not significantly different. Cases demonstrated significantly poorer sleep scores than controls in the categories of somnolence (p = 0.009) and shortness of breath/headache (p = 0.021) scales. Conclusions: In our population, elderly individuals with epilepsy had reduced cognitive function, a higher prevalence of depression, and poor sleep health when compared with their age mates without epilepsy. This cross-sectional study could not determine the temporal course of epilepsy and co-morbidities, and further investigation will explore these associations prospectively. (Supported by: This study was supported in part by NIH grant K23 NS02192 (SRH), NIH PO1 AG03949 (RBL), and a research grant from Pfizer.) 1,2 Hrvoje Hecimovic, 1 Juan M. Santos, 4 Yvette I. Sheline, 5 Mark A. Mintun, 6 Joseph L. Price, 3 Jewell Carter, 3 Victoria Vahle, 4 Abraham Z. Snyder, and 1 Frank Gilliam ( 1 The Neurological Institute, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 2 Zagreb Epilepsy Center, University Hospital, Zagreb, Croatia ; 3 Department of Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; 4 Department of Psychiatry, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; 5 Department of Radiology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; and 6 Department of Neuroanatomy, Washington University, St. Louis, MO) Rationale: Neurologically normal patients with primary depression have hippocampal volumes smaller than controls. Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients have a wider range of abnormalities in the mesial temporal structures, which allows investigation of the association of hippocampal volume with severity of depressive symptoms. Based on the hyperexcitable hippocampal efferents to limbic structures, we hypothesized that TLE patients will express increased symptoms of depression. In addition, we speculated that severe hippocampal atrophy will not support the hyperexcitable network required to maintain clinical depression. Methods: We evaluated 28 consecutive adults with TLE using clinical variables, long-term video/EEG monitoring, high resolution MRI and tests for depression, including the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). On the MRI we manually delineated regions of interest in the mesial temporal (hippocampus, amygdala) and prefrontal (gyrus rectus, pregenual cortex, subgenual and subcallosal cortex) structures, based on prior human and animal studies of mood dysfunction. Distribution of the data was tested using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Student's t-test was used to determine group differences, with a significance level set at p < 0.05. Data were analyzed using the SPSS statistical software. Results: Based on a total BDI score greater than 15, 42.8% of the group were experiencing significant symptoms of depression. None of the subjects in the quartile with the smallest left hippocampal volume had a BDI score greater than 15, whereas 57.1% of the subjects in the upper three quartiles had increased symptoms of depression, p < 0.008. No other brain structure volume had an association with depressive symptoms. Conclusions: Patients with hippocampal volume loss that is consistent with severe hippocampal sclerosis had no evidence of significant symptoms of depression. This finding suggests that there is a critical number of hyperexcitable hippocampal neurons required to maintain depression in temporal lobe epilepsy. [figure 1] (Supported by NIH grants NS40808 and NS047551 and Epilepsy Foundation fellowship grant.) 1 Jennifer L. Hopp, 1 Helga Matausch, 1 Jingkun Zhu, and 1 Allan Krumholz ( 1 Neurology, University of Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Mood and anxiety disorders are common in patients with epilepsy and many hypotheses have been proposed to understand the relationship between emotional dysfunction and seizures. Despite the recognition of this comorbidity, psychiatric disease remains under-recognized in neurology patients. This study was designed to identify the prevalence of depression and anxiety, as well as the co-existence of these symptoms, in patients with epilepsy and examine their impact and relative contribution on health related quality of life (QOL). Methods: 110 consecutive patients in the University of Maryland Medical Center Epilepsy Outpatient Center and Inpatient Epilepsy Monitoring Unit (EMU) completed Beck Depression Inventory-II? (BDI-II?), Beck Anxiety Inventory? (BAI?) and Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31 (QOLIE-31) measures between December 1, 2005 and May 25, 2006. Patients who completed these questionnaires in the inpatient EMU did so on the day of admission before their medications were changed and prior to any seizure activity. Scores were calculated for each inventory and means were compared using standard t-test calculations. Results: 109 patients completed the BAI and anxiety was noted to be severe in 9% of patients, moderate in 9%, mild in 26%, and minimal in 56% of patients. 98 patients completed the BDI and symptoms suggestive of depression were severe in 7% of patients, moderate in 12%, mild in 16% and minimal in 65%. 88 patients had complete BAI, BDI, and QOLIE-31 data for analysis. When anxiety and depression scores were independently compared with quality of life scores in 88 patients, it was found that lower levels of anxiety and depression were correlated with higher quality of life indices. The most significant reduction in quality of life was seen when comparing BAI and BDI scores between patient groups with minimal versus mild levels of depression and anxiety (table1) (p < 0.0001, 95% confidence interval). QOLIE-31 scores Compared with Level of Anxiety or Depression Minimal Mild Moderate Severe Anxiety 72.3 54.8 54.1 35.6 Depression 72.8 43.6 42.9 36.2 all values represent mean QOLIE-31 scores for each category of symptom severity Conclusions: These findings are supportive of prior data which have noted increased prevalence of anxiety and depression in patients with epilepsy. The presence of even mild symptoms of anxiety and depression have a significant impact on quality of life. When the levels of anxiety and depression were simultaneously compared to QOLIE-31 scores, there was a more significant impact on QOL by depression levels than anxiety. These data also suggest the possibility that although more severe symptoms of depression and anxiety are associated with reduced QOL, that there may be a low threshold which is important with regard to the effect of depression and anxiety on quality of life in patients with epilepsy. 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, 1 Charles K. Vorkas, 1 Kenneth Alper, 1 Chad Carlson, 1 William Barr, and 1 Orrin Devinsky ( 1 NYU Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: Postictal psychosis (PIP) is an important behavioral complication of epilepsy and its early recognition is essential for appropriate management. Yet, the risk factors for PIP remain controversial. The majority of studies to date have been relatively small and have largely focused on patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). We sought to verify previous findings that correlate PIP with bilateral epileptiform interictal/ictal activity, clustering of seizures, and mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS). Methods: We retrospectively reviewed a series of 140 patients with complex partial epilepsy undergoing video-EEG (VEEG) monitoring as candidates for epilepsy surgery. These patients were evaluated by structured neurologic and psychiatric interviews by a team of epileptologists and a single neuropsychiatrist (KA). Each patient had at least one MRI prior to surgery. No patient had psychotic symptoms at baseline. 55 of these patients were diagnosed with PIP using the criteria presented in Devinsky et al. [1], which were adapted from the definition provided by Logsdail and Toone [2]. Results: Age, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, and history of febrile seizures were similar in the PIP and control groups. Patients with PIP experienced more generalized slowing (19.6% v 7.0% p < 0.028) and more frequent seizure clusters (>2 seizures in 24 hours) during VEEG monitoring (45.0% v 28.2% p < 0.045). Patients with PIP had more frequent clinical secondary generalization (64.7% v 43.5% p < 0.017), bilateral interictal epileptiform discharges (52.9% v 32.9% p < 0.021), and non-localized seizures (54.9% v 23.8% p < 0.001) during monitoring. MRI lesion lateralization was similar in both groups, though patients in the control group had more bilateral focal abnormalities than in the PIP group (12.3% v 4.4 p = ns). More patients in the PIP group had a nonfocal abnormality (11.8% v 2.7% p = ns). Imaging diagnosis of MTS was similar in the PIP and control groups (58.3% v 55.6% p = ns). Conclusions: This retrospective study of PIP is the largest to date. PIP was more frequent in patients with electrophysiologic evidence of bilateral cortical hyperexcitability. No significant correlation was found between PIP and structural abnormalities on MRI. Although the correlation between secondary generalization and seizure clusters suggest an association with ?epilepsy severity,? the presence of independent bilateral seizure onsets was not significant and overall baseline seizure frequency could not be formally evaluated in the population. These findings suggest PIP correlates more with neurophysiologic function than structural anatomy. 1 Devinsky O, Abramson H, Alper K, et al: Postictal psychosis; a case control series of 20 patients and 150 controls. Epilepsy Research 1995; 20(3): 247?253. 2 Logsdail SJ, Toone BK: Postictal psychoses: a clinical and phenomenological description. Br J Psychiatry 1988; 152:246?252. 1,3 Eun-Jeong Lee, 3 Brian Bell, 2 Christian Dow, 3 Jana E. Jones, 3 Paul A. Rutecki, 2 Michael Seidenberg, and 3 Bruce P. Hermann ( 1 Rehabilitation Psychology  2 Psychology, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL ; and 3 Neurology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI ) Rationale: Depression is a major comorbidity of epilepsy that contributes to unemployment, underemployment, medical expenses, and reduced self-reported quality of life (Bishop et al., 2002). The etiology of depression remains controversial and rarely have causal modeling techniques been used in this literature. The purpose of this study is to test the applicability of Lewinsohn et al.'s (1985) integrative model of depression to epilepsy. This model views depression as the end result of environmentally initiated changes in behavior, affect, and cognition as the primary triggers to episodes of depression. Methods: 100 individuals with temporal lobe epilepsy underwent structured interviews to obtain sociodemographic and epilepsy related information, and completed self-report measures of related handicap (Subjective Handicap of Epilepsy scale), Quality of Life (Quality of Life in Epilepsy-89), and depression (Beck Depression Inventory). Path analysis was used to (a) evaluate the general compatibility (i.e., goodness of fit) of the model with the data, and (b) examine relationships between epilepsy related variables, disruptions in daily activities, self-perception, stress, social support, employment status, and depression among individuals with epilepsy. Results: In path analysis, acceptable fit is indicated by a nonsignificant chi-square value (i.e., p > .05; Bollen, 1989), and by comparative fit index (CFI) and normed fit index (NFI) values great than .90 (Tabachnik  2 Clinical Neuroscience, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC ; and 3 Pediatric Neurology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC ) Rationale: The many studies of sudden unexplained death in epilepsy (SUDEP) have yet to identify consistent risk factors for its occurrence. Further, no single mechanism has been elucidated. Mortality associated with SUDEP is population dependent. It is difficult to analyze SUDEP in that it occurs relatively infrequently. In this study, SUDEP cases were identified in a clinical practice of 30 years. Generally, all patients are known personally to the investigator (BBW) and the clinical and therapeutic information was similar. Methods: 3096 patient records were accumulated in a single practice between 1974 and 2004. Abstractions were performed on 711 cases including 26 SUDEP cases and 87 other death cases; the remainder are alive. Specific demographic, clinical, seizure, treatment and laboratory information was obtained using a developed abstracted tool. SUDEP cases were matched on gender and 5-year age intervals with 3 controls that have epilepsy and are alive. McNemar tests were performed using SAS. Results: The rate of SUDEP was 4.2 per 1000 person-years. A history of generalized tonic clonic (GTC) seizures was seen more often in the SUDEP group (RR = 5.0, 95% CI 1.90, 13.13). There was a trend towards persons who died of SUDEP being more likely to have ever experienced status epilepticus (p = 0.08). Also, persons with SUDEP were more likely to have more than 1 type of seizure (p < 0.001), be taking more than 2 antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) at last visit (p < 0.001), to have ever taken 3+ AEDs (p < 0.001), and to have had a medication change in the 3 months prior to the last visit (p < 0.001). There was also a trend towards childhood onset epilepsy in the SUDEP cohort (p = 0.07). No difference was observed in having a primary generalized epilepsy. Conclusions: The rate of SUDEP is consistent with other published findings from tertiary referral epilepsy clinics. This study included persons who attended a tertiary referral practice, and therefore likely had more severe epilepsy than general neurological populations. Results have also confirmed that cases of SUDEP are more likely to be taking more AEDs currently and in the past, have more than 1 type of seizure, and to have had a medication change within three months of death. It has been documented that type of seizure, mainly GTC, is associated with SUDEP; however, less documented is the type of epilepsy. Specifically, primary generalized epilepsy as JME was found equally in both SUDEP and matched cohorts. Trends towards ever having status epilepticus and childhood onset epilepsy should be explored further when more data is available. (Supported by Epilepsy Services  2 CERMEP, Bron, France ; and 3 EA3092, UCBL, Lyon, France ) Rationale: Depression and epilepsy are comorbid diseases that seem likely to involve common pathophysiological pathways, including serotonin (5-HT) and 5-HT1A receptors. Two studies have investigated 5-HT1A receptors in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) as a function of depressive symptoms and have shown a negative correlation between the binding potential (BP) of [11C]-WAY100635 (WAY) or [18F]-FCWAY and varying depression scales, though in different brain regions. The aim of our work was to study the relationships between 5-HT1A receptor density and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) scale in a homogeneous group of patients suffering from TLE with hippocampal sclerosis (HS), using a PET ligand, [18F]MPPF, which affinity differs from WAY and allows displacement by endogenous serotonin. Methods: 21 patients suffering from TLE with HS underwent a [18F]MPPF-PET. Depressive symptoms were evaluated on the day of the PET study using the BDI scale. A simplified model was used to generate parametric images of 5-HT1A receptors binding potential values. Images from patients with a left HS were flipped so that HS were on the same side (right) for all patients. To investigate the association between BP values and BDI scores, we carried out SPM analyses using an ANCOVA design, considering the BDI scores as a covariable of interest, with masks that either included all limbic and paralimbic regions, or the brainstem. In addition, we placed regions of interest (ROIs) over the same brain regions. Results: SPM analyses disclosed a significant positive association between the MPPF BP values and the BDI scores in the insula contralateral to the seizure focus as well as in the raphe nuclei (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01 respectively, at the cluster level corrected for multiple comparisons). These results were confirmed by ROI analysis. Conclusions: In contrast with previous WAY-PET studies, we have shown a positive, rather than negative, association between 5-HT1A receptors BP values and the BDI scores, in regions known to be involved in depression (insula, raphe) that also differ from those reported in the previous studies (anterior cingulate, hippocampus). These differences could be partly explained by the lower affinity of MPPF as compared to that of WAY, and reflect decreased level of endogenous 5-HT in the insula and raphe in the more depressed patients. (Supported by Programme Hospitalier de Recherche Clinique.) 1 Bernardo Moreira, 1 Silvia Vincentiis, 1 Lia Fiore, 1 Renato Marchetti, and 1 Kette Valente ( 1 Clinical Neurophysiology ? Psychiatry, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ) Rationale: Analysis of the semiology of psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) is challenging. Use of the same terminology as that used for epileptic phenomema may be inappropriate for PNES. Groppel et al. suggested a classification based on the analysis of clusters of symptoms and signs. In this study we applied this classification to the analysis in order to analyze its application and possible limitations Methods: We studied the semiology of 27 patients with PNES documented by VEEG. We observed and characterized motor phenomena, classifying them as events with positive motor phenomena (clonic, hypermotor, tremors, pelvic thrusting, lateralized movements, versive, erratic and anomalous movements simulating automatisms, hypertonic posture, retropulsion with or without opistotonus) or as events with negative motor phenomena (loss of tonus, motor arrest, staring, etc). We also evaluated responsiveness, hyperventilation, sound emission and aura. Postictal phenomena and event duration were likewise evaluated. Results: Eight patients were classified as Cluster I (hypermotor and clonic movements of extremities, pelvic thrusting, head movements, tonic head posture ? motor PNES); 4, as Cluster II (limb tremor ? minor motor PNES) and 4 as Cluster III (?atonic PNES?). Six patients had more than one event, with distinct semiology, being classified in two groups. Fifteen NES could not be classified according to these criteria. Among those presenting positive motor phenomena, 4 had Cluster I phenomena associated to tremors (Cluster II), and 3 had Cluster I phenomena associated to automatisms, 2 patients had only automatic movements and 1, had subtle lateralization movements. Not all patients with negative motor phenomena had atonia; 2 had speech arrest, 1 had irresponsiveness, 1 had visual hallucinations, and 2 had irresponsiveness with eye flutter. Ten patients had hyperventilation, 12 with whimpering, and less often, wailing. Loss of responsiveness was observed in 16 patients from this group. Four patients reported aura preceding the event. Postictal confusion with agitation was observed in 6 patients. Twelve patients presented events with prolonged duration. Conclusions: Our study suggested that although the attempt of a categorical classification of PNES, such as that carried out in epileptic seizures and syndromes, may seem quite interesting, it seems to be of little practical use because of the heterogeneity of PNES. PNES do not always present as stereotyped seizures in the same patient and frequently undergoes changes in semiology during its course. Moreover, in the literature there is a tendency to overestimate motor phenomena, when other non-motor features may be just as important for diagnosis of PNES and remain undervalued. Groppel G, et al. Cluster analysis of clinical seizure semiology of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures. Epilepsia 2000;41(5):610?4. 1 Laura M. Moreno, 1 Gina Mapes Jetter, 1 Susan Rogers, 1 Elizabeth Clark, 1 Jan M. Bruder, and 1 Jose E. Cavazos ( 1 Medicine (Neurology) and Pharmacology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX ) Rationale: Recent studies have shown that some enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (EIAEDs) are associated with osteoporosis and an excess number of fractures. 3A4 is the main CYP450 isoenzyme involved in the degradation of active Vitamin D (Vit D) to its inactive form. It is thought that the primary mechanism of this problem is due to an AED induction of the metabolism of Vit D through the CYP450 system. The potential development of osteoporosis might be prevented by the use of Vit D and calcium (Ca) supplements. It is uncertain as to how to treat the Vit D deficiency in epilepsy patients, who often have been taking AEDs for many years. Although maintenance therapy guidelines for those at high risk for developing osteoporosis exist, a more rapid protocol might be useful to normalize Vit D levels. The objective of this study was to determine if replenishment of 25-hydroxy Vitamin D3 (25-OH- D3) levels by a 12-week course of weekly high-dose Ergocalciferol, vitamin D2, will normalize the 25-OH- D3 levels. Methods: The protocol took male patients on AEDs and looked at Vitamin D3, PTH and calcium levels. If the results showed the patient to be deficient in Vitamin D3 (<20 ng/ml with normal iPTH or Vitamin D < 30ng/ml and elevated iPTH), then the patient received Ca supplementation with Ergocalciferol (Ergo) 50,000 IU/week for 12 weeks. In addition, all patients were placed on Oscal 500 + D (Ca 500MG/Vitamin D 200 IU) twice daily. Labs were repeated at 16 weeks, and if Vitamin D3 levels were still low, then the 12-week course of Ergo was repeated. 58 patients, mean age 58 and mean duration of AED therapy 23 years, met this criteria. Results: Analysis showed a difference in Vit D, iPTH, and Ca levels before and after treatment with Ergo. However, only the change in Vit D levels was significant. We further divided into subgroups of EIAEDs, NEIAEDs, and valproic acid (VPA) examining Vit D only. Conclusions: Patients that took a 12-week course of Ergo had a significant increase in 25-OH- D3 levels. Although iPTH trended down and Ca levels increased after Ergo treatment, there was no significant effect seen between the before and after treatment group. Long term follow-up of these labs in this study group is needed to correlate whether the increase in Vit D will decrease the rate of osteoporosis. 1 Before Ergo After Ergo p value Difference 25-OH- D3, PTH,  2 Neurology, Veterans Healthcare System New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM ; 3 Psychiatry, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; and 4 CHQOER, Bedford VA Hospital, Bedford, MA ) Rationale: The incidence of epilepsy is most common in the elderly, and treatment choices may be complicated by physical and psychiatric comorbidities. Studies have not systematically examined the patterns of comorbidities in older patients with new onset epilepsy. Methods: We identified new onset epilepsy patients using national diagnostic and administrative data from the Veterans Health Administration and Medicare data files and national VA pharmacy data. We first identified individuals who were 65 years or older in each year (2000?2004). Individuals with a first diagnosis (ICD-9 codes) of epilepsy (345) or convulsion (780.39) with a concomitant first prescription for an antiepileptic drug (AED) were classified as having new onset epilepsy. Of those older veterans with both a diagnosis of epilepsy and a concomitant AED (n = 69,494), 9,234 met the criteria for new onset epilepsy. We then identified the common comorbid conditions that may affect treatment patterns. Results: The cohort of new onset epilepsy patients was primarily male (98%), White (78%; 16% Black, 5% Hispanic) with a mean age of 75.1 years. On average, these individuals had 11 physical comorbidities and slightly less than one psychiatric comorbidity. Approximately 30% had a prior stroke and 16% had a history of transient ischemic attacks. This group was also substantially affected by metabolic syndrome: 92% hypertension, 52% type 2 diabetes, and 68% hypercholesterolemia. Psychiatric comorbidities included depression (22%), psychosis (18%) and anxiety (13%). On average these patients received 17 (SD = 8.8) unique classes of drugs in addition to their AEDs, including many that pose potential interactions with older AEDs (e.g. warfarin, statins). Conclusions: The comorbidity profile of this populations indicates that they have profound comorbid disease. Diseases such as hypercholesterolemia and coagulopathy are commonly treated with drugs that have been found interact with older enzyme inducing AEDs. We know that over 80% of these patients received these older, enzyme inducing AEDs (65% phenytoin; 5% phenobarbital, 10% carbamazepine) Further research is needed to determine the extent to which drug-drug interactions occurred, and the impact of these interactions. It is possible that treatment with older, less expensive AEDs is offset by hidden costs that occur as a result of drug-drug interactions (e.g. higher mortality due to subsequent stroke or MI for patients treated with statins and who receive little benefit due to the drug-drug interaction) or hip fractures that may occur due to osteoporosis that has been associated with chronic use of enzyme inducing AEDs. Much research is needed to explore these hypotheses. (Supported by Department of Veterans Affairs, Health Services Research and Development Service.) 1 Dalin T. Pulsipher, 2 Jana Jones, 1 Christian Dow, 2 Bruce Hermann, 1 Michael Seidenberg, and 2 Bell Brian ( 1 Psychology, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine  and 2 Neurology, University of Wisconsin Hospital, Madison, Madison, WI ) Rationale: There is an extensive literature examining quality of life (QOL) among individuals with epilepsy. Some clinical seizure variables (eg, seizure frequency, age of onset, duration of epilepsy) have been shown to influence QOL. Psychiatric comorbidities (e.g., depression) are reliably and strongly associated with decreased QOL. Recent studies have documented high rates of medical comorbidities (e.g., hypertension, diabetes, cancer) among people with epilepsy compared to healthy controls, but their impact on QOL has yet to be examined. The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between comorbidities (medical and psychiatric) and QOL in a sample of adults with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Methods: 93 adult patients with TLE were administered the QOLIE-89. Medical history was obtained through structured patient/collateral interviews and chart review. All subjects underwent the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV which provided a current DSM-IV Axis I diagnosis. Correlation and regression analyses were performed to determine the contribution of clinical seizure variables and comorbid medical and psychiatric conditions to QOL. Results: 49.5% (n = 46) of the TLE patients reported the presence of a medical comorbidity, psychiatric comorbidity, or both. 19 (20%) subjects had only a medical comorbidity, 16 (17%) subjects had only a current Axis I psychiatric comorbidity, and 12 (13%) subjects had both. An increased total number of comorbid conditions were significantly associated with poorer QOL. Regression analyses demonstrated that the total number of comorbidities (ß= 3.79, t = 4.06, p < .01) was the strongest predictor of overall QOL, followed by education (ß= .95, t = 2.35, p = .02). Clinical seizure variables did not significantly predict QOL. In addition, a stepwise regression analysis showed that both psychiatric (ß= 4.46, t = 2.68, t < .01) and medical comorbidities (ß= 2.97, t = 2.24, p = .03) were distinct and unique predictors of overall QOL. Conclusions: Consistent with previous reports, we found that comorbid medical and psychiatric conditions were common in patients with TLE. The total number of combined medical and psychiatric comorbid conditions significantly predicted QOL after accounting for basic demographic and clinical seizure variables. This is the first study to date to examine the impact of medical comorbidities on QOL in TLE. The high rates of medical comorbidity observed in this and other studies should alert clinicians to the potential significance of their impact on QOL. (Supported by: This project was funded by the Epilepsy Foundation.) 1 Ross F. Liebman, 1 Sarah Shalev, and 1 Alcibiades J. Rodriguez ( 1 Department of Neurology, NYU Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: Several studies have shown that sleep complaints are more common in epilepsy patients when compared to normal controls from the general population. The specific sleep complaints of an epilepsy patient may be different than those of a person without epilepsy seen in a sleep disorder center. This difference would have significant implications to the approach of treating epilepsy patients with a sleep disorder. Comparing the sleep complaints of epilepsy and non-epilepsy patients seen in consultation at a sleep disorders center could show this difference. Methods: A retrospective chart review was conducted on patients seen for initial consultation at the New York Sleep Institute over a 5 month period. All patients over 18 years of age were included. A total of 112 patients met these criteria, 39 in the epilepsy group and 73 in the control group. For each patient, information was collected from the initial consultation report written by a Board Certified Sleep Specialist. The data included basic demographic information, reason for referral, other sleep complaints, Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) score, co-morbidities (including if they have been diagnosed with epilepsy based on the International League Against Epilepsy criteria), medication history, family history, social history and Body Mass Index (BMI). The data was analyzed using Pearson chi-square analysis for categorical data and t-test for continuous variables. Results: The chief complaint/reason for referral to the sleep institute was noted to be statistically different between the epilepsy group and the controls, via Pearson's chi-square analysis (p = 0.0035). In the epilepsy group, 48.7% had a chief complaint of insomnia, compared to 26.0% in the control group (p = 0.0157). Snoring was more common in the control group (34% vs. 18%) and subjective EDS was more common in epilepsy group (31% vs. 22%). From the interview, all sleep disturbances that were afflicting each patient were recorded. Of these sleep disturbances, only difficulty falling asleep (Insomnia subtype) was significantly different between the two groups (56% of the epilepsy patients, 25% of controls, p = 0.0012). Subjective EDS, snoring, un-refresing sleep, restlessness in legs and difficulty staying asleep were statistically equally frequent between the groups. Conclusions: Insomnia is the prevailing chief complaint in patients with epilepsy that present to a sleep disorder center. Over all complaints, difficulty failing asleep was most identifying with the epilepsy patients. Both of these problems were significantly different from the ones seen in patients without epilepsy. 1 Vivianne P. Rosa, 1 Gerardo Maria De AraújoFilho, 1 Katia Lin, 1 Luís Otávio Sales Ferreira Caboclo, and 1 Elza Márcia T. Yacubian ( 1 Department of Neurology, Universidade Federal de S?o Paulo/UNIFESP, S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The complex relationship between temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and psychiatric disorders (PD) has been matter of interest, and important studies have emphasized this association. PD compromise patients' quality of life. Few studies, however, studied the frequency of PD in patients presenting the same etiology of TLE. We evaluated the frequency of PD in a homogenous series of patients with refractory TLE related to mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) aiming to determine the frequency of PD and possible correlations with clinical variables as well as laterality and degree of atrophy in volumetric MRI measures. Methods: Data from 106 patients with refractory TLE related to MTS accompanied at the outpatient epilepsy clinic of Universidade Federal de S?o Paulo, Brazil, from March 2005 to May 2006 were reviewed. The psychiatric evaluation was based on axis I DSM-IV criteria and on Bear and Fedio Inventory (BFI). For statistical analysis, the X2 test and Student's T test were used. P value considered significant was < 0.05. Results: Sixty-one females and 45 males were evaluated. The mean age and mean duration of the disease were 39.5 ± 13.4 and 24 ± 11.3 years, respectively. The mean age at epilepsy onset was 19.0 ± 12.8 years. MTS occurred more frequently on left side (72 cases; 68%), followed by right side (30 cases; 28.3%) and by 4 cases of bilateral MTS (3.7%). The hippocampus were significantly smaller (p < 0.05) in the side of the epileptogenic zone. Carbamazepine and phenytoin were the most used single drugs, and their association to a benzodiazepine, mostly clobazam, the most common association. PD were found in 65 patients (61.3%). Humor disorders were the most frequent (32 cases; 30%), followed by interictal (15 cases; 14%) and postictal (10 cases; 9.4%) psychosis. Twelve patients performed criteria for 2 axis I disorders, and the most frequently found association was major depression and postictal psychosis (7 cases), related to left MTS. Postictal and interictal psychosis were significantly associated with left side (p < 0.05), while PD in general and humor disorders were not associated to any side. Conclusions: There was a high prevalence of PD in patients with refractory TLE associated to MTS. The most common were humor and psychotic disorders. Psychosis was significantly associated to left side. These findings are concordant with data in current literature relating the prevalence of PD in TLE, confirming the existence of anatomic alterations, and also a possible left laterality effect in the mesial temporal lobe structures in patients with epileptic psychosis. (Supported by CAPES and FAPESP from Brazil.) 1 Nicole A. Seminario, 1 Sarah T. Farias, 1 Julie Jorgensen, and 1 Masud Seyal ( 1 Neurology, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Depression in epilepsy is common and a powerful indicator of the quality of life. Yet neurologists do not routinely screen epilepsy patients for depression in the clinic setting. In a busy neurology practice, where the major focus is seizure control, it is likely that symptoms of depression may be missed. The PHQ-9 is a brief, self-administered questionnaire based on current DSM-IV criteria that has been validated in several patient populations. PHQ-9 scores of 10 or higher have high sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing major depression. Utilizing the PHQ-9, we sought to determine the frequency of depression in patients with epilepsy and to correlate patient characteristics with the degree of depression. Methods: 263 patients seen in a tertiary referral epilepsy clinic over a 6-month period were asked to complete the questionnaire. Depression scores were assessed in relation to seizure frequency; epilepsy diagnosis; antidepressant and antiepileptic drug usage. Differences across patients were compared using ANOVA. Results: Nearly one-third of patients (29.3%) had scores consistent with major depression. Seizure-free patients had lower depression scores (mean score 5.1, s.d. 5.4; median score 3) than those with persistent seizures (mean score 8.1, s.d. 6.2; median score 7) (p = 0.003). Patients with non-epileptic psychogenic seizures had higher scores than those with localization related epilepsy, idiopathic generalized epilepsy or with symptomatic generalized epilepsy (Difference across groups significant p = 0.044). Depression scores were not related to the number or type of anti-epileptic drugs used. Patients currently taking antidepressant drugs had higher scores than those not on antidepressant drugs (p < 0.001). Just over one-half of patients with major depression were not on antidepressant medication. Conclusions: In patients with epilepsy, major depression was detected at a rate similar to that reported previously using ?gold-standard? instruments. The PHQ-9 is a sensitive measure of depression in this population. The brevity of this instrument is conducive to routine screening of patients with epilepsy. Depression is under-recognized in this group of patients. Over half the patients with major depression were not on antidepressant drugs. Depression is associated with persistent seizures rather than the type of epilepsy or antiepileptic drugs. [figure 1] (Supported by Department of Neurology, University of California, Davis.) 1 Sadat A. Shamim, 2 Gregor Hasler, 1 Kathleen Kelley, and 1 William H. Theodore ( 1 Clinical Epilepsy, NINDS, NIH, Bethesda, MD ; and 2 NIMH, NIH, Bethesda, MD ) Rationale: To evaluate the relationship between hippocampal volume loss, depression, and epilepsy. Background: There is a significantly increased incidence of depression and suicide in patients with epilepsy. Both epilepsy and depression are associated with reduced hippocampal volumes, but it is uncertain whether patients with both conditions have greater atrophy than those with epilepsy alone. Previous studies used depression measures strongly weighted to current state, and did not necessarily assess the influence of chronic major depressive disorder (?trait?), which could have a greater impact on hippocampal volume. Methods: Sixty-one epilepsy patients with complex partial seizures (CPS) confirmed by ictal video-EEG had 3D spoiled gradient recalled acquisition (spgr) with 1.5 mm slice MRI Scans. These were loaded into a linux based system, hippocampi were manually traced on each slice, and then assembled into 3 dimensional volumes. The anterior head of the hippocampus was separated from the amygdala by the appearance of the inferior limb of the lateral ventricle. The hippocampus was traced superiorly around the choroidal fissure, curving laterally along the medial border of the temporal horn, and medially along the gray matter of the hippocampus up to its junction with the parahippocampal gyrus. Depression screening was performed with Beck Depression Inventory (BDI, 56 patients) and with the structured clinical inventory for DSM-IV (SCID, 36 patients). For the BDI, a score above 10 was considered mild to moderate, above 20 moderate to severe, and above 30 severe depression. MRI and clinical analysis were performed blinded to other data. Statistical analysis was performed with Systat (Point Richmond CA) using Student's T-test and analysis of variance. Results: SCID evaluation revealed 20 patients with and 16 without depression. BDI revealed 24 and 32, respectively. There was no relationship between the right or left hippocampal volumes and depression for either measure. There was a clear and expected relationship between hippocampal volume and the side of the seizure focus (p = 0.001). However, this was not affected by the presence of depression based on SCID or BDI. Conclusions: We found no significant effect of depression, using measures of train as well as state, on hippocampal volume in patients with CPS. The high rate of comorbidity may be better evaluated with measures of cellular function rather than by anatomic imaging of the hippocampus. (Supported by National Institutes of Health.) 1 Elizabeth S. Stroup, 1 Erica L. Coady, 1 Mark D. Holmes, 1 Daniel L. Drane, 1 Naomi S. Chaytor, and 1 John W. Miller ( 1 University of Washington Regional Epilepsy Center, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Comorbidity (CO) of both epileptic (ES) and psychogenic nonepileptic (PNES) seizures in the same patient is well documented. Less well studied is the effort required to reach this diagnosis, and the yield from additional days of monitoring. Methods: We identified 36 adult patients (64% female) with video-EEG confirmed ES and PNES events, from all long term monitorings performed at the UW Regional Epilepsy Center from mid-1999 to 2006. ES was defined as having definite ictal EEG abnormalities, while PNES was defined as episodes of unresponsiveness or abnormal motor activity in the absence of an electrographic seizure. For a diagnosis of CO, both types of events had to be captured during one or more video-EEG monitorings. Mean age at time of final diagnosis was 33 years (SD = 11). Results: The mean number of monitorings required to diagnose CO was 1.6 (SD = 0.9; median = 1.0; range = 1?5). Average number of required monitoring days (across one or more admissions) was 6.0 (SD = 4.0; range = 2?21). The mean number of discrete unequivocal events recorded before reaching a diagnosis of CO was 6.2 (SD = 6.9; median = 4.0; range = 2?35). Elapsed time between a patient's first recorded event and a diagnosis of CO averaged 3.8 days (SD = 4.0; range = 0?20). For the 50% of patients whose initial event was a PNES spell, elapsed time to an epileptic seizure averaged 2.6 days of additional monitoring (SD = 1.7; range = 0?5). In contrast, patients who initially experienced an epileptic seizure required nearly twice this time to convert from an exclusive diagnosis of ES to CO (M = 5.1 days; SD = 5.2; range = 1?20). Twelve of the 36 patients underwent surgery for intractable ES, with 42% experiencing their first PNES event after surgery. Conclusions: Most patients with verified comorbid diagnoses of ES and PNES events require relatively few monitorings to document both. In the current data, a comorbid diagnosis was reached in 90% of the sample in two or fewer monitoring admissions cumulatively totaling eight days or less. A full 64% of the sample was diagnosed with CO in only one monitoring admission. Perhaps of greatest clinical utility is the observation that 83% of patients who initially presented with a PNES event went on to have an unequivocal epileptic seizure within four monitoring days of their initial spell. Thus, when a diagnosis of epilepsy is strongly suspected in a patient who initially presents with a PNES event, evidence suggests that allowing several more monitoring days in selected patients can yield clinically useful data critical to appropriate patient care. Additionally, there was a subgroup of patients who developed PNES following surgical resection of an epileptic focus. Prediction of which patients warrant additional admissions or monitoring days remains to be determined, but is critical to efforts to reduce length of stay, without compromising quality of care. 1 Joanne M. Wrench, 1 Sarah J. Wilson, 2 Peter F. Bladin, and 3 David C. Reutens ( 1 School of Behavioural Science, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Vic, Australia ; 2 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Austin Health, Melbourne, Vic, Australia ; and 3 Department of Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Vic, Australia ) Rationale: Patients undergoing temporal lobectomy are at risk of developing de novo depression after surgery despite good seizure outcome. Neurobiological predictors of de novo depression largely remain unknown. Previous research has indicated that patients with Major Depression have smaller hippocampi than controls. We explored whether this finding was also true for epilepsy surgery patients by examining the relationships between pre-operative hippocampal volumes, seizure outcome, and de novo depression after epilepsy surgery. Methods: The sample comprised 42 patients undergoing epilepsy surgery in the Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Austin Hospital (26 mesial temporal lobe resections and 16 non-mesial temporal resections). Patients were prospectively assessed pre-operatively, and at discharge, one, three, six, and 12 months post-operatively. Assessment included a semi-structured clinical interview (Austin CEP Interview) and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II). Hippocampal volumetry was conducted on patients' preoperative T(1)-weighted MRI scans and on 41 neurologically normal controls following stereotactic normalisation of the images. Results: Post-operatively, 42% of mesial temporal patients and 19% of non-mesial patients were depressed within the first 12 months after surgery. The occurrence of depression was associated with significantly smaller hippocampi contralateral to the resection in the mesial temporal group (p = 0.003). This effect was also seen in mesial temporal patients who developed de novo depression after surgery (p = 0.027). Contralateral hippocampi were particularly small in patients suffering from both depression and seizures post-operatively (p = 0.031). Furthermore, there were significant negative correlations between contralateral hippocampal volumes and BDI-II scores at one and three months post-operatively (r =?0.46 and r =?0.42 respectively, p < 0.05). There were no significant findings between depression, seizure outcome, and hippocampal volumes in the non-mesial group. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that the hippocampus is a structural marker of vulnerability to post-operative depression, particularly in the presence of post-operative seizures. They also indicate that a smaller hippocampus predates the onset of depression. 1 Miya R. Asato, 1 Patricia K. Crumrine, 1 Enami Yasui, and 1 Beatriz Luna ( 1 Pediatrics, Division of Child Neurology, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA; and Psychiatry, Western Psychiatric Institutes and Clinics, Pittsburgh, PA ) Rationale: While the elevated risk for psychopathology in pediatric epilepsy has long been recognized, the relationship between brain function and the risk for psychiatric comorbidity has not been well studied. These initial results are from an ongoing prospective study of different seizure subtypes of well-characterized medically treated pediatric epilepsy patients and matched controls. These children performed a battery of neurocognitive tests, diagnostic psychiatric interviewing, and tasks of cognitive control of behavior using oculomotor tasks. Methods: We report results from 12 pairs of pediatric epilepsy patients and age, gender, and IQ matched control subjects. From the 12 pairs studied up to the present, the average age of the children was 11.92 years (SD 3.2), and gender was split evenly between males and females. Mean IQ of the patient group was 96.5 (SD 11.9) and duration of disease was 3.5 years. Epilepsy type in the patient group was classified as complex partial (n = 8), primary generalized (n = 2), and benign focal epilepsy (n = 2) based on EEG data and clinical semiology. All patients except one were being treated with anticonvulsants. Control subjects were free of psychiatric diagnoses, and had no history of neurological or psychiatric disorders. Participants completed cognitive control oculomotor tasks including a test of sensorimotor control (visually guided saccade task) and a test of response inhibition (antisaccade). Oculomotor tasks are objective, non-verbal measures of executive function which are easily performed by children, and have been successfully used to study cognitive and brain systems in children with typical development and neurodevelopmental disorders. Comprehensive psychiatric assessment including a diagnostic psychiatric interview (KSADs -PL) and the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF). Results: The rate of psychiatric diagnoses in the epilepsy patient group was elevated at 50% including attention deficit disorder (n = 5) and depression (n = 1). There were no psychiatric diagnoses in the control population. Preliminary results of the oculomotor tasks demonstrate that all 24 children performed well on the control task, indicating intact basic sensorimotor function. Children with epilepsy commited more response inhibition errors on the antisaccade task compared to controls (p = 0.06), indicating a deficit in response inhibition. Results from the BRIEF, a parent and teacher report of executive functioning indicate a significant correlation between poorer functioning and having psychiatric comorbidity (p < 0.001). Conclusions: As part of an ongoing study to evaluate cognitive processes at risk due to epilepsy mediated effects, these results indicate a neurobiologically linked relationship between executive functioning and psychiatric comorbidity. (Supported by NINDS K23 NS052234.) 1 Janice M. Buelow, 1 Joan K. Austin, and 2 Susan M. Perkins ( 1 School of Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 Division of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Adaptive functioning refers to the physical, social, and communication skills necessary for functioning in daily life. We could find no study that described adaptive functioning in children with both epilepsy and mild intellectual disability (ID). Some authors suggest that measuring adaptive functioning is more important than measuring intelligence because adaptive functioning reflects actual behavior in the context of daily life and may be amenable to intervention. The purpose of this study was to describe the relationship of adaptive functioning to behavior problems in a population of children with both epilepsy and mild developmental disability. Methods: To measure adaptive functioning, parents completed structured interviews using the Vineland Adaptive Functioning Scale (VABS). To measure behavior problems, parents completed the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL). Results: The sample was 49 children (24 girls and 25 boys) ages 9?16 years (M = 12.3) who had both epilepsy and mild ID. The mean estimated IQ was 73.5 (SD = 17.8). The mean age of seizure onset was 5.3 years and the mean duration was 7.0 years. About half (53%) of the children had two seizure types and 46% were receiving more than one AED. The CBCL scores showed high rates of behavior problems; total (M = 66.36, SD = 8.86), internalizing (M = 64.21, SD = 11.26), and externalizing (M = 60.19, SD = 10.78). The mean VABS scores were approximately 2 standard deviations below the norm scores for the general population; total (M = 60.69, SD = 11.12), communication (M = 60.12, SD = 12.94), daily living (M = 68.67, SD = 16.41), and socialization (M = 68.42, SD = 15.40). There was a trend for the VABS total adaptive functioning score to be negatively correlated with CBCL total behavior problems score (p = .09). The VABS daily living skills score was negatively correlated with CBCL total behavior problems score (p = .05), and CBCL externalizing score (p = .02). VABS socialization and communication scores were not significantly correlated with CBCL total scores. Conclusions: This pilot study showed an association between more behavior problems and poorer adaptive functioning in children with epilepsy and mild intellectual disability. Specifically, total behavior scores were correlated with both total adaptive functioning and daily living skills. Our findings are similar to those in other studies of children with mild ID and chronic disorders other than epilepsy. Our pilot study provided foundational information regarding overall adaptive functioning and behavior in children with both epilepsy and mild ID. (Supported by NR 04536.) 1 Tara Clarke, 1 Bhavna Bali, 1 Lisa J. Strug, 1 Peregrine L. Murphy, and 1 Deb K. Pal ( 1 Epidemiology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: An association between Rolandic epilepsy and migraine headache has been suggested in previous case series (Bladin, 1987), and controlled studies are conflicting (Santucci, 1985;Giroud, 1989). It has further been suggested that the two diagnoses share etiological background. We therefore tested the hypothesis that migraine headaches are over-represented in children with Rolandic epilepsy. Methods: We performed an unmatched case-control study. We collected 44 cases of strictly defined Rolandic epilepsy with oro-facial seizures, median age 9 years, sex ratio 3:2, M:F from pediatric neurology clinics. We collected 92 control children lacking a primary brain diagnosis, median age 9 years, from other subspecialty clinics at the same hospitals. We made a clinical diagnosis of migraine using features in the history that include those required for the International Headache Society criteria, but with modifications for childhood as proposed by Maytal et al 1997. We calculated odds ratios of association, adjusted for age and sex, using multiple logistic regression. Results: 17% of cases and 17% of controls had a clinical diagnosis of migraine without aura. No subject was diagnosed with other migraine variants. When adjusted for age and sex, the odds ratio was 0.94 (95%CI: 0.57?1.52). Conclusions: The prevalence of migraine in controls was comparable to that reported in meta-analysis estimates (Scher, 1999). The prevalence of migraine in Rolandic epilepsy cases is no different than in controls without a primary brain diagnosis. Our finding of no association is in agreement with a previous controlled study (Santucci, 1985). In contrast, previous uncontrolled reports have suggested that migraine occurs in 62?80% of children with Rolandic epilepsy. Our results suggest that previous reports may have overestimated the prevalence of migraine in Rolandic epilepsy patients, and hence concluded an association. Although our findings do not support the idea that migraine is over-represented in Rolandic epilepsy, this does not exclude the possibility of an association with other focal epilepsies, or the possibility that shared etiological mechanisms pertain for migraine and epilepsy. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation.; Partnership for Pediatric Epilepsy.; National Institutes of Health NS 047530.) 1 Gary A. Stobbe, 1 Kathy Eileen, 2 Julie M. Davies, and 1 Susan Malmquist ( 1 Research, Autism Spectrum Treatment and Research Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Psychology, Seattle Pacific University, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Previous research has recognized the frequent association of epilepsy and autism (7%-42%; Tuchman, 2000). Debate has ensued whether a causal relationship exists between EEG epileptiform abnormalities and autistic regression in the absence of clinical seizures. AED use with autistic children has suggested benefits in areas of hyperactivity, impulsivity, aggression, and affective instability associated with autism (Hollander, 2001; Rugino, 2002). The purpose of this study was to investigate whether autistic children with EEG epileptiform abnormalities treated with levetiracetam would show improvement in certain core features of autism. Methods: Participants were 9 boys and 2 girls, ages 3 to 11 years (M= 6.43) with a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder and with epileptiform discharges on EEG. Multiple baseline and outcomes measures evaluating core features in autism were employed, including daily behavioral diaries assessing social interaction, emotional response, awareness, expressive language, receptive language, play/imagination, body movement, rigid/habitual behaviors, and other behaviors. Study design was a 24-week, open label, non-forced titration of levetiracetam with initial daily dose of 10 mg/kg/d and target dose of 60 mg/kg/d. Baseline concommitant medications were not considered reason for exclusion. Results: Ten (91%) children had a formal diagnosis of autism; one of Aspergers. Incidence of regressive sybtype was overrepresented (64%) compared to expected (30?39%). Early termination occured in 6 of 11, primarily due to aggression and emotionality seen at higher doses. Curvilinear analysis suggested the maximum benefit was at lower doses (5?10/mg/kg) in 7 of 11 children. No serious adverse events were observed and all side effects reversed with discontinuance of medication. Preliminary results from daily behavioral diaries indicate positive trends in awareness (10 of 11). Differential results for regressive subtype suggest benefit in the domain of play/imagination (6 of 7). Participants with EEG patterns of left focal epileptiform discharges and bifrontal sharps evidenced positive trends in the area of expressive language (5 of 6, and 2 of 2, respectively). Children with right focal discharges experienced negative effects in expressive language (3 of 3). Conclusions: Preliminary results suggest levetiracetam is safe in children with ASD and EEG epileptiform abnormalities, and that certain behavioral domains of autism may benefit from low doses. Increasing dose did not correspond to increased performance, and resulted in a higher incidence of early termination from the study. Epileptiform discharges involving the dominant hemisphere may predict benefit in the domain of expressive language. These results warrant further investigation targeting concepts of EEG abnormaility and language effects with levetiracetam. (Supported by UCB Pharma, Inc.) 1 Jana E. Jones, 2 Christian Dow, 1 Raj Sheth, 3 Monica Koehn, 1 Ryann Watson, 3 Rochelle Caplan, 2 Michael Seidenberg, and 1 Bruce P. Hermann ( 1 Neurology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI ; 2 Psychology, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL ; 3 Psychiatry, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; and 4 Neurology, Marshfield Clinic, Marshfield, WI ) Rationale: Among children with recent onset idiopathic epilepsies (age 8?18), a subset have been found to exhibit learning and education problems prior to the first recognized seizure. These children exhibit greater abnormalities in neuropsychological status as well as left hemisphere MRI volumetrics compared to children with recent onset epilepsy without problematic educational histories and healthy controls. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that a subset of children with new onset epilepsy sustained an antecedent neurobiolgical insult affecting brain function and structure. The degree to which comorbid mental health problems may also be overrepresented in this at risk cohort remains to be determined and represents the focus of this investigation. Methods: Subjects were children age 8?18 with recent onset (diagnosed within the past 12 months) epilepsy of idiopathic etiology (n = 51). Participants and their parents underwent a standardized psychiatric interview to characterize DSM-IV diagnoses (K-SADS). Structured interview identified 35 children with no history of academic problems (AP-) and 16 children with prior (pre-epilepsy onset) academic problems (AP+) that included either special education, special assistance in reading and math, mandatory summer school, tutors, or grade retention. Results: AP+ children exhibited significantly elevated rates of lifetime-to-date Axis I disorders of any type compared to AP- children (93.8% vs. 60.0%, p < .01). There were higher rates of externalizing disorders (62.5% vs. 11.4%, p < .001), including ADHD (26.4% vs. 10%) and conduct disorders (12.5% vs. 0.0%, p < .05). A majority of the AP+ children (62.5%) exhibited psychiatric comorbidity prior to the first recognized seizure. Internalizing disorders (depression, anxiety) were not overrepresented in AD+ children. Conclusions: Children with academic problems (AP+) antedating epilepsy onset also exhibit an increased rate of psychiatric comorbidity, especially externalizing disorders which includes ADHD and conduct disorders. This emerging pattern of pre-epilepsy onset learning and psychiatric disorders as well as MR volumetric abnormalities is consistent with a presumed antecedent neurobiological insult independent of seizures, epilepsy syndrome, and medication treatment. Evidence of early learning problems and psychiatric comorbidity needs to be integrated in models of the development and course of epilepsy in children and adolescents. (Supported by NIH NS R0144351, M01RR03186 (GCRC), and F32 MH649882.) 1 Susan Koh, 2 Brenda Bursch, 2 Erin Lanphier, and 2 Rochelle Caplan ( 1 Department of Pediatric Neurology, University of California, Los Angeles, CA ; and 2 Department of Psychiatry, University of California, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: This study examined the rate, types, and demographic features of non-epileptic events (NEE) in a large pediatric epilepsy center over 5 years. The single pediatric study conducted to date found NEE in 15.2% of the children (Kotagal 2002). These included stereotyped and paroxysmal movements, hypnic jerks, parasomnias, Sandifer syndrome, inattention and conversion disorder. Epilepsy was found in 19?25% of the middle childhood and adolescent cases. Methods: A chart review was conducted on all children under 18 years with NEE during long term videotelemetry at UCLA between 2000 and 2005. Patients with auras were excluded from this study since it is unclear whether these spells were NEE or not. Information gathered included ethnicity, gender, age at time of telemetry admission, history of psychiatric illness, type of medications, history of epilepsy, history of developmental delay, EEG ictal data (if the patient had a seizure), and type of NEE. Type of NEE was categorized as arousal/sleep myoclonus, abdominal complaints (reflux), apnea, psychiatric disorders (psychosis, impulse control disorder, conversion disorder), movement disorders (tics, dystonia, tremors, myoclonus) and staring. Results: 469 of the 1509 telemetry admissions had NEE. Among these 469 patients, 150 had movement disorders, 112 sleep related issues, 107 staring, 16 gastrointestinal related issues, 16 apnea (mainly breath holding spells), and 8 headaches. Many had different types of NEE noted in the same procedure. 128 patients had a psychiatric diagnosis with a conversion disorder in 31 and impulse control disorders psychosis, masturbation or enuresis in the remaining 97 children. Of those with conversion disorders, 13 were female and 18 male ranging in age from 3?18 years (mean 12.87 yrs). The ethnic distribution was similar to that of the greater Los Angeles community. 14 children had a past history of epilepsy and 3 had documented epileptic seizures during the same telemetry. Six patients had no medication treatment for epilepsy or psychiatric condition prior to the telemetry, 3 had treatment for a psychiatric condition and 25 had treatment for seizures. 12 patients had a prior psychiatric history of depression (2), bipolar disorder (1), psychosis (5), attention deficit disorder (2), and autism (2). 9 patients had a history of mild mental retardation or learning disability. Conclusions: Unlike Kotagal et al. (2002), 31% of our telemetry patients had NEE. 27% had comorbid psychiatric disorders with conversion disorder in 7% of all telemetry cases. There also was a higher rate of previous epilepsy (45%) and past psychiatric history (39%) in the NEE cases associated with conversion disorder. The high rate and marked morbidity of this disorder highlights the importance of further studies to identify neurocognitive and socioeconomic factors that increase the risk of children with epilepsy for this disease. 1 Jay A. Salpekar, 1 Marian J. Kolodgie, 1 Audrey Scully, 1 Leia Foster, 1 Andrew Renuart, and 1 Joan A. Conry ( 1 Center for Neuroscience and Behavioral Medicine, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Pediatric epilepsy patients with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD) are challenging both in terms of epilepsy treatment and behavioral comorbidity. Behavioral and psychiatric characteristics in this population are also difficult to isolate given the potential masking of psychiatric symptoms by intrinsic characteristics of IDD. IDD patients have been perceived to have limited ability to swallow pills and thus have restricted treatment options. Our goal was to characterize behavioral problems in a study population with epilepsy and moderate-severe IDD and to assess behavioral outcomes through the clinical trial. Methods: Pediatric epilepsy patients with IDD were recruited to participate in a clinical trial involving transition from Depakote? sprinkle medication to extended release tablets. A clinical evaluation, CBCL, and adaptive behavior rating scales were completed initially and at the conclusion of the eight week trial. Patients underwent a protocol to instruct them on swallowing pills. Parents completed CBCLs and category scores were deemed clinically significant for t scores of 65 or greater. Results: Ten patients with pediatric epilepsy and IDD were recruited (average age 11.1; 6 male) for the dosage conversion study. Adaptive functioning scales and/or documented IQ levels revealed all participants to be well within the moderately mentally retarded range (IQ approx. 40?60). Two patients were nonverbal, but could accomplish many activities of daily living with assistance. At the initial visit, 8/10 subjects had at least one CBCL narrow band category score in the clinically significant range. Seven subjects had completed behavioral measures and one subject had dropped out at the time of this analysis. Of the seven completers, five had at least one category score that improved, and three had at least one category score that worsened. Three patients had improvement in thought problems, two had improved attention, and none of the sample worsened in these two categories. Two patients had worse scores in somatic concerns. Conclusions: We did not expect significant behavior change in this study that focused upon medication dosage form conversion; however, some specific aspects of behavior improved with the transition to once daily Depakote? extended release tablets. Thought processing and attention were improved in some subjects and did not worsen for any subject. Somatic concerns increased in two subjects and may be related to preoccupation with pill swallowing. It is notable that in this severely impaired population, once daily medication was successfully used and may have benefits for behavior function in addition to facilitating easier adherence to treatment. (Supported by Abbott Laboratories, Inc. provided unrestricted research support.) 1 Elisabeth M.S. Sherman, 2 Daniel J. Slick, 3 Mary B. Connolly, and 3 Kim L. Eyrl ( 1 Neurosciences, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ; 2 Community NeuroRehab Services, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 3 Neurosciences, BC Children's Hospital, Vancouver, BC, Canada ) Rationale: ADHD is a frequent comorbid condition in pediatric epilepsy, especially in tertiary care centers. In a large sample of children with epilepsy, we aimed to determine (1) the prevalence of ADHD symptoms, (2) neurological and epilepsy-related risk factors for ADHD, 3) the influence of intellectual deficits on the expression of ADHD in epilepsy, and 4) the extent to which ADHD symptoms pose a risk for poor health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and restrictions in daily activities in children with epilepsy. We also explored whether there was an epilepsy-specific presentation of ADHD in children with epilepsy. Methods: Data from the ADHD Rating Scale-IV (ADHD-IV) from 203 cases (mean age = 11.8, SD = 3.8) from a tertiary centre serving children with severe epilepsy were reviewed. The majority of children had focal symptomatic epilepsy, with a median seizure frequency of 3 seizures per month and median age at onset of 2.5 years. Results: Clinically significant problems with Inattention were more frequent than problems with Hyperactivity-Impulsivity (40% of children vs. 18%). About 2/3 of the sample met screening criteria for either ADHD-I or ADHD-C, with equal representation of both subtypes. Age of onset, epilepsy duration, and intractability did not predict ADHD symptoms or subtype, but ADHD-I was more prevalent in localization-related epilepsies, and there was a trend for higher medication load in this subgroup. Severity of ADHD symptoms was inversely related to HRQOL. Overall, ADHD-C children were younger, had low functional levels, had the poorest HRQOL and the most restrictions in daily activities. No gender difference in the prevalence of ADHD subtypes was seen. Conclusions: Children seen at tertiary care centres for severe epilepsy are at high risk for attention problems and ADHD. The clinical characteristics of ADHD occurring in the context of epilepsy differ significantly from the known characteristics of children with primary ADHD, raising questions about the validity of using the DSM-IV-based criteria and the notion of comorbidity to describe what may be an epilepsy-specific disturbance in children with severe epilepsy. (Supported by BC Medical Services Foundation/Vancouver Foundation.) 1 Anastasia C. Sullwold, 1 Gretchen E. Weatherly, and 1,2 Frank J. Ritter ( 1 Epilepsy, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, P.A. of United Hospital and Children's Hospitals and Clinics ? St. Paul, St. Paul, MN ; and 2 Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Pediatric epilepsy patients are at risk for cognitive and mental health problems. Previously, we found suicidal ideation (SI) was more prevalent in hospitalized pediatric patients with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) or both PNES and epileptic seizures (MIX) than those with epileptic seizures alone (ES). Currently, our objective is to describe the occurrence of SI as it relates to cognitive functioning, age, and seizure diagnosis in a sample of pediatric epilepsy patients. Methods: Records of 162 children admitted to an inpatient epilepsy unit from 9/99?4/06 for video-EEG monitoring were reviewed. Inclusion criteria included evaluation by a psychologist during the hospitalization, diagnosis of ES, PNES or MIX by a neurologist, and IQ data obtained from within 5 years of the hospitalization. Those with IQ below 40 and those with physiologic nonepileptic events were excluded. All epileptic seizure types were grouped together. Data were analyzed using T-Tests for Independent Measures, ANOVAs, Chi-Squares, and Partial Correlations. Results: 47% of the sample was male. 125 had ES, 20 had PNESs, and 17 had MIX. Gender was equally distributed across seizure groups. ANOVA indicated those with ES were younger (mean = 12 yrs; p < .01) than those with MIX (mean = 14 yrs) and IQs were similar across the three seizure groups (ES mean = 79, PNES mean = 89, and MIX mean = 80). 20% of the sample reported SI. This included 18% of ES (n = 23), 24% of MIX (n = 4), and 30% of PNES (n = 6). Chi-square analyses showed a non-significant but clear trend toward higher SI in those with PNES/MIX than ES. T-Tests showed those with SI were older (mean = 13 yrs) and with higher IQ (mean = 87) than those without SI (mean age = 12 yrs, p < .05; mean IQ = 79, p < .01). Correlations confirmed the relationship between SI and IQ (p < .01) and between SI and age (p < .05). However, age and seizure group were also significantly correlated (p < .01). A partial correlation holding the seizure group constant eliminated significance from the age-SI relationship. Conclusions: In this selective sample, IQ was related to SI, with IQs closer to the average range showing higher occurrence of SI. A trend of higher SI in PNES/MIX was notable, similar to our previous study that indicated a robust relationship between SI and PNES/MIX in a larger sample. Taken together, these results suggest the presence of PNES and an average IQ may increase risk for SI in pediatric epilepsy patients. This study is limited by patient selection factors. Nonetheless, this report represents progress towards determining key factors in identifying pediatric epilepsy patients at highest risk for SI. Further study of this important issue is clearly warranted. 1 Sigride Thome-Souza, 1 Evelyn Kuczynski, 2 Patricia Rzezak, 2 Daniel Fuentes, and 1,3 Kette Valente ( 1 Clinical Neurophysiology ? Psychiatry, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ; 2 Neuropsychology ? Psychiatry, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ; and 3 LIM 21- Psychiatry, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ) Rationale: Recent studies have demonstrated a high prevalence of psychiatric disorders (PD) in children and adolescents with epilepsy. Due to particularities of epilepsy in this age group, especially as to disease duration, it is of interest that this group be studied separately. Most studies with children approach heterogeneous groups with focal and generalized epilepsy, both symptomatic and idiopathic. We aimed to evaluate the frequency and type of PD that occurs in children and adolescents with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and to analyze possible predictive factors, concerning the epilepsy, for the occurrence of PD in these patients. Methods: A multidisciplinary team evaluated patients taking part in this study. Psychiatric interviews were carried out with KIDDIE-SADS and patients were classified according to DSM IV and CID 10. Twenty-six children and adolescents with mean age of 12 years were studied. Mean age of epilepsy onset was 3.6 years (SD 3.2) and mean duration of 8.6 years (SD 4.5). As to etiology, nineteen patients had mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) and seven, lateral temporal epilepsy (LTE). Fourteen patients were on polytherapy and fourteen were considered refractory to clinical treatment. Results: From 26 patients with TLE, 22 (84.6%) presented PD, of which 10, more than one. The diagnosed PD were: affective disorders in 13 patients (59%), behavioral disorders in 6 (27.3%); hyperkinetic disorder, mental deficiency and dissociative disorder in 4 (18.2%); and oppositional defiant disorder and bipolar disorder in 1 patient (4.5%). Of the 13 patients with affective disorders, depressive disorder was diagnosed in 9 patients (mild in 4 and moderate to severe in 5) and anxiety disorder in 4 patients. Nine families (40.9%) reported history of PD preceding the onset of epileptic seizures. Mean age of epilepsy onset in patients with PD was 3.5 years, and in those without PD of 4.3 years. As to duration of epilepsy, patients with PD had a longer duration (8.5 years) when compared to patients without PD (7.5 years). As to etiology, out of 19 patients with mesial structure lesions, 19 (100%) presented PD, and out of seven patients with lateral lesions, three (42.9%) presented PD, a statistically significant difference. Family history for PD was reported in 13 out of 22 patients (59%). Conclusions: The study of children with epilepsy enables us to study in an unusual manner the relationship between epilepsy and PD, without interference of important variables observed in adult series such as prolonged disease duration. In this series the prevalence of PD in children with TLE was as high as that observed in adults, mainly affective disorders. Patients with PD present an earlier age-onset of epilepsy and longer duration, although these differences were not significant. In this study presence of MTS was the most relevant predictive factor for PD. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Alcy R. Torres, 2 Jane E. Whitney, 2 Sneha N. Rao, 2 Rachel M. Lobel, 2 Claire A. Tilley, and 2 Joseph M. Gonzalez-Heydrich ( 1 Neurology, Children's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA ; and 2 Psychiatry, Children's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Twelve to 39% of children with epilepsy have Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)1, yet only methylphenidate has controlled data in this population. Methods: We reviewed medical records of pediatric patients with ADHD plus epilepsy given atomoxetine (ATM) abstracting diagnoses, clinical course, adverse events, and prospectively entered Clinical Global Impressions scores (CGI). Response at last visit is a CGI-Improvement score of 1 or 2 plus a drop of at least 1 point in CGI-Severity score compared to baseline, and continuation of ATM. Results: Twenty-seven patients (10.1 ± 4.2 years, 63% male) were treated with ATM for median 26, range 4?141 weeks. The average daily dose was 35 ± 24 mg (median 25, range 10?100mg). For the 22 patients with weights available the dose was 0.9 ± 0.4 (range 0.1?1.6) mg/kg/day. Twenty-four (90%) had been unsuccessfully treated with stimulants prior to ATM. ADHD was combined subtype in 21 (78%) patients. Twenty-one patients (88%) were diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder in addition to ADHD including mood disorders in 16, anxiety in 8, and psychosis in 6. Six patients had a concomitant antipsychotic when they began treatment with ATM and 11 patients (41%) were treated with an antipsychotic at the last visit on ATM. Average seizure frequency at baseline was 9 ± 37 per month (median 0, range 0 to 90). Epilepsy etiology was idiopathic (n = 18, 67%), cryptogenic (n = 8, 30%) or symptomatic (n = 1, 4%). Seizure onset was strictly partial (n = 4, 15%), generalized (n = 9, 33%), or mixed partial and generalized (n = 13, 48%). Twenty-three patients (85%) were on antiepileptic medications (AED) at baseline, and 21 (78%) at the last visit on ATM. Four patients increased and two patients decreased their AED regimens during ATM treatment. There were no serious adverse events and no patients discontinued ATM due to an increase or worsening of seizures. Seventeen of 27 patients (63%) discontinued ATM. The reasons were: inadequate response (n = 7, 23%), increased irritability/activation (n = 8, 30%), appetite decrease and tremor (n = 1, 4%), or noncompliance (n = 1, 4%). Eight patients (30%) met criteria for response. ATM dose, epilepsy type, and comorbid psychiatric disorders did not predict response or discontinuation. Conclusions: The modest response rate (30%) and high discontinuation rate (63%) on ATM could be due to the high percentage of stimulant non-responders in this sample. The absence of serious adverse events or discontinuations for seizure exacerbation indicates that prospective studies should be planned. Limitations of this study include its small sample size, retrospective nature, and lack of randomization and placebo control. Reference 1.?Dunn DW, et al. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2003;45(1):50?54. 1 Monique J. Veendrick-Meekes, 1 Boudewijn B. Gunning, and 1 Loek L. Steenbeek ( 1 Childrens Department, Epilepsy Eenter Kempenhaeghe, Heeze, Netherlands ) Rationale: To assess signs and symptoms related to seizures and to the use of antiepileptic drugs (AED) inducing Lower Respiratory Tract Affections (LRTA) in children with Catastrophic Epilepsies (CE). Methods: This study is a 2 years retrospective case study including 28 children, age 0;8?7;4 mean 2;9), males 20(71%) and females 8(29%) with intractable seizures. Seizures were observed by trained nurses. All children underwent excessive diagnostic procedures to define epilepsy syndrome and etiology. Pulmonary symptoms were diagnosed on clinical observations, physical examinations, X ray and measurement of O2 saturation. Results: LRTA occurred in 12 children (43%)(LTRA), 16 (57%) children had no LRTA. (n-LRTA. Daily seizures occurred in 9(75%) infants in LRTA and in 6 (37%) in n-LRTA. Seizure related LTRA inducing factors were seen 8 (67%) in LRTA, 4 (25%) in n-LRTA. Vomiting 4(33%) in LRTA, 2(12%)in n-LRTA. Salivation 5(42%) in LRTA, 0 (0%) in n-LRTA. Apnea 1(8%) in LRTA and 0(0%) in n-LRTA, and somnolence 1(8%) in LRTA, 2 (12%) in n-LRTA. LRTA inducing adverse events of antiepileptic drugs (AED) were seen11(92%) and 5 (31%) in n-LRTA. Salivation was present 4 (33%) in LRTA and 0(0%) in n-LRTA, somnolence 4 (33%) in LRTA, 3(19%)in n-LTRA, vomiting 2 (16%) in LRTA, 0(0%) in n-LRTA and apnea 1(8%) in LRTA and 0(0%) in n-LRTA .1(8%)child died in LRTA, 2 (12%) in n-LRTA. Conclusions: LRTA in infants with CE can be life threatening and have negative impact on quality of life. Daily seizures, salivation and vomiting might induce LRTAThere is a further need of investigations to improve prevention and treatment options. 1 Elaine C. Wirrell, and 1 Judy Wong ( 1 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: To determine (a) if children and teens with epilepsy participate in less physical activity and have higher body mass index (BMI) percentiles for age than their non-epileptic siblings and (b) what epilepsy-specific factors limit their participation. Methods: Patients 5?17 years, with a ≥3 month history of epilepsy, a development quotient ≥80, no major motor or sensory impairments, and at least one non-epileptic sibling in a similar age range, were identified from the neurology clinic database or at the time of clinic visit. Parents completed a questionnaire regarding sedentary activities and group, individual and total sports activities. Children aged 11?15 years also completed the physical activity portion of the Health Behavior in School Aged Children questionnaire. Clinic charts were reviewed for seizure type, etiology, frequency, duration of epilepsy and number of anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) ever taken. Results: Teens with epilepsy participated in less group and total sports activities than controls and were more likely to be potentially overweight or overweight. Receiving three or more AEDs in the past showed a significant negative correlation with sports participation. While there was a trend for those with higher seizure frequency to be less active, no other epilepsy specific factors nor prior seizures or seizure-related injury during a sports event correlated with participation in physical activity. Conclusions: Programs that promote exercise in adolescents with epilepsy should be encouraged to improve their physical, psychological, and social well-being. 1 Jerry J. Shih, and 1 David R. Chabolla ( 1 Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: Ictal asystole or bradyarrythmias are recognized cardiac processes associated with certain epilepsies and are the subject of case reports and case series. Less is known about the incidence of patients originally thought to have epilepsy who ultimately are diagnosed with asystole or bradyarrythmias not associated with any seizure manifestation. Methods: All patients admitted to epilepsy monitoring units from two hospitals from 2000?2005 were retrospectively evaluated for clinically significant bradyarrythmias which explained their paroxysmal episodes of alteration of consciousness or ?convulsions?. 550 subjects ranging from age 5 months to 81 years-old were included in the analysis. All subjects analyzed had one or more events documented with concomitant video, electroencephalographic, and electrocardiographic data. Total recording time ranged from 8 hours to 8 days. Patients with known epilepsy admitted for ictal single-photon emission computed tomography or intracranial EEG monitoring were excluded from analysis. Results: Three patients were diagnosed with clinically significant asystole or bradyarrythmias. One patient (age 5 months) died in the hospital during an event in which she could not be resuscitated. The other two (ages 49 and 76) patients had episodes for 39 and 8 years, respectively and carried the diagnosis of medically refractory epilepsy. Both of these patients had an implantable cardiac defibrillator placed and are event-free. Conclusions: The incidence of patients admitted for video-EEG monitoring who are ultimately diagnosed with asystole and bradyarrythmias not associated with epilepsy is rare. However, the lack of timely diagnosis can be fatal, and epileptologists should recognize the possibility of significant cardiac arrythmias being misinterpreted as seizures. (Supported by Mayo Clinic Foundation grant to JJS NIH 3 M01 RR00997?20S3 to JJS.)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Sunday, December 3, 2006 Poster Session II 7:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 47
IS  - s4
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_6.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_6.x
SP  - 119
EP  - 204
PY  - 2006
AB  - 1 Jewell Carter, and 1 R. Edward Hogan ( 1 Neurology, Saint Louis University, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: Of the more than 2 million persons in the United States with epilepsy, 400,000?600,000 are refractory to antiepileptic medication. Of these, 100,000?300,000 persons may have an epileptic region that can be surgically removed. It has already been established that the length of time a patient is referred to a tertiary epilepsy center is about 20 years. Once referred, the question becomes, what additional factors motivate a person to proceed with epilepsy surgery. Epilepsy surgery remains an underused treatment modality. To investigate factors associated with subjects who do or do not undergo epilepsy surgery, we compared two groups of subjects with refractory TLE, comparing subjects with and without a history of epilepsy surgery. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed all subjects who were evaluated at The Greater Midwest Epilepsy Treatment Center at Saint Louis University during the period of 1990?2001. The epilepsy surgery group was selected by consecutive review of subjects with a diagnosis of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy due to mesial temporal sclerosis who underwent epilepsy surgery. Subjects were matched, on a case by case basis, with subjects with chronic intractable temporal lobe epilepsy with no history of epilepsy surgery. The groups were matched for age, gender and total lifetime seizures. Using Fisher's Exact test, we compared marital status, insurance, race, and employment between the groups. For the epilepsy surgery subjects, all clinical data was taken from the pre-surgical evaluation. Results: There were 15 men and 15 women in each group. Mean ages were 34.8 for surgery and 37.7 for non-surgery groups (p = 0.34). Total lifetime seizures between groups were comparable (p = 0.25). Employment between the groups was significantly different (the surgery group being more likely to be employed), p = 0.0127. Defining insurance as Medicaid with or without Medicare, there was a near-significant finding (the non-surgery group being more likely to have Medicaid), p = 0.0692. Race (defined as white/non-white) (p = 0.47), and marital status (p = 0.79) were non-significant. Conclusions: Employment is associated with subjects who underwent epilepsy surgery. While there are many factors that may lead patients to undergo epilepsy surgery, our findings are suggestive that the wish to sustain employment is an important factor, regardless of severity of epilepsy. Of note, a U.S. Department of Health and Human Services research findings, identified that a major concern of persons with disabilities receiving SSDI and/or SSI was this: ?SSDI and/or SSI benefits were not sufficient to live on, but fear of loss of benefits discouraged work attempts for some, and for others the benefits disappeared too soon after first work attempts were made.? This may indicate possible hesitancy on the part of some with epilepsy to proceed with surgery. 1 Laura L. Jurasek, 1 Daphne Quigley, 1 D. Barry Sinclair, 1 Syed Nizam Ahmed, and 1 Donald W. Gross ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Alberta Hospital/Stollery Childrens Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Transition from pediatric to adult health care services can be difficult for patients and families. Barriers to transition have been identified in the literature, with little pertaining to epilepsy. The University of Alberta Comprehensive Epilepsy Program encompasses both pediatric and adult services within the same facility. Adolescent and family needs can be addressed within the nursing scope of practice. The purpose of this project was to develop and evaluate a transition program for adolescents with epilepsy and their families who are being transferred from a pediatric to an adult epilepsy program. Methods: All patients referred from the pediatric to adult epilepsy clinic were included in this study. Patient independence and the learning needs of both patients and parents were evaluated with standardized questionnaires. During the transition clinic visit (which occurred prior to the first appointment with the adult neurologist), a standardized education program was provided with patient and family needs incorporated into teaching. Evaluations were completed following the transition appointment and after the adult neurologist initial visit. Results: To date six patients have completed the transition process (one of which had significant developmental delay). The majority of adolescents had minimal knowledge to manage their own healthcare (i.e. name and dosage of medications) and lacked basic information regarding epilepsy (i.e. first aid). In identifying their own learning needs, considerable discrepancies were observed between adolescents and parents in particular relating to the areas of driving, alcohol and birth control. Patients and parents were unanimous regarding the benefits of going through the transition clinic. Conclusions: Our findings support the benefits of a formalized transition process between pediatric and adult epilepsy programs. The development and implementation of a nurse-led adolescent epilepsy transition program provides an opportunity to educate, encourage independence and alleviate fears during a period of time when other natural transitions are occurring. 1 Marian J. Kolodgie, 1 Audrey H. Scully, 1 Joan A. Conry, 1 Jay Salpekar, and 1 Andrew Renuart ( 1 Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy may benefit from single-daily dose Depakote ER. In the presence of developmental delay parents may have concerns regarding their child's ability to swallow extended release tablets. We developed a training protocol aimed at teaching parents how to transition their child from Depakote Sprinkles to Depakote ER tablets. Methods: Subjects included 10 children diagnosed with epilepsy and developmental delay, and their parents. Subjects had no known diagnoses of feeding disorders, swallowing problems, or food aversion. Parents underwent a three step training program; 1.) Parents were interviewed about their child's swallowing abilities and previous pill-taking history. 2.) Parents received instruction on swallowing mechanics and behavior modification techniques. 3.) Pill administration was modeled by the clinic nurse and/or epilepsy nurse practitioner with each child. Mock tablets of incremental size were used during the training sessions. Children were allowed to swallow the pills with soft food or liquid but were not permitted to chew the tablets. Parents were instructed to practice with their child at home and provide a return demonstration at follow-up clinic visits. Results: Nine subjects completed the protocol successfully and transitioned from sprinkles to extended release tablets within the study timeframe. The tenth child acquired pill-taking skills shortly after the last study visit and is now taking extended release tablets. None of the subjects experienced choking, gagging, or other serious symptoms of distress. Conclusions: Developmental delay need not be an exclusionary factor in considering children's ability to swallow medication in pill form. Children with epilepsy and developmental difficulties can learn to swallow tablets through structured behavioral interventions. The ability to swallow tablets may contribute to overall compliance with treatment. (Supported by Abbott Laboratories.) 1 Sheila Koutsogiannopoulos, 1 Francine Adelson, and 1 Frederick Andermann ( 1 Nursing, Montreal Neurological Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada; Social Work, Montreal Neurological Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada; and Neurology, Montreal Neurological Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: To explore circumstances around the emergence of a first seizure in adult onset epilepsy; i.e.what trends, if any, exist in the quality and quantity of life events occurring in the 12 months preceding the onset of an initial epileptic seizure. Research suggests that how individuals adjust to significant life events may explain the time of onset of a disease or chronic disorder. (Holmes, T.H., Rahe, R. The Social Readjustment Rating Scale, J Psychosom Res. 1967. 11:213?218). Although stress is recognized as a major precipitant for seizures in patients with a known seizure disorder, few studies, in any, have explored the cluster of life events associated with the onset of a first seizure in adult onset epilepsy. We also explored patients' beliefs about the causes of their epilepsy, their knowledge of seizure triggers and their sense of control. Methods: A qualitative study using a phenomenological approach. Patients were selected prospectively from the M.N.H. epilepsy clinic and monitoring unit. Interviews were audio-taped using a semi-structured interview guide and a life experiences survey. Interviews continued until data saturation was achieved and themes identified. Results: All patients reported significant life events experienced in the 12 months prior to the onset of their first seizure. Different themes were noted between men and women and among women of different age groups. All male responders reported primarily work related stressors prior to their first seizure. When significant others were present during the interviews, family stresses were also identified. Young women in their 20's identified a perception of diminished self efficacy in completing developmental tasks. Middle aged women described major losses and disruption in family relationships. None of the respondents reported irrational beliefs about the cause of their epilepsy. 93% of respondents were able to identify their seizure triggers and planned strategies to control them. The majority of patients also expressed the belief that stress increased the frequency of their attacks. Conclusions: A positive relationship between significant life events and timing of a first seizure in adult onset epilepsy was demonstrated in this limited sample. A larger sample is needed to further evaluate this finding. The majority of the patients interviewed believe that stress and seizures are related. This adds to what has been reported in other studies (Antebi, D., Bird, J. The Facilitation and Evocation of Seizures. Br J Psych. 1993.162: 759?64). The patients had the perception of high self control, were able to identify a relationship between their seizures and likely triggers, and discuss strategies to control such triggers. This study highlights the need to specifically inquire about stressors which may be present and may play a role in the triggering of adult onset epilepsy. (Supported by Savoy Foundation.) 1 Angela M. McNelis, 1 Jennifer E. Myers, 1 Joan K. Austin, and 2 David W. Dunn ( 1 School of Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 School of Medicine, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Parents of children with epilepsy often lack seizure management skills due to inaccurate or incomplete information and knowledge about their children's seizure conditions. Moreover, parents have a great number of fears and worries associated with their child's condition. The purpose of the study was to test the effectiveness of a psychoeducational intervention designed to improve seizure management skills by reducing concerns and fears and improving knowledge about seizures. Methods: A quasiexperimental design was used to examine the effectiveness of the Be Seizure Smart intervention in a sample of parents of children with new-onset seizures. Based on each individual's pre-assessment, customized information was sent to meet the individual's unique needs. Once the information was received, a series of four 30-minute phone calls approximately one week apart were made to address the parent's identified areas of need. Pre and post assessment measures included general concerns and fears about seizures (9 items), concerns about seizure management (8 items), psychosocial care needs (6 items on information and 8 items on support), uncertainty (31 items), knowledge about seizures (20 items), mood associated with their child's seizure condition (10 items), and satisfaction with family functioning (5 items). Results: The sample consisted of 22 mothers, 2 fathers, and 1 grandmother. The children (14 females and 11 males) ranged in age from 5 to 13 years, with a mean age of 8.2 years. Parents had significantly lower scores for concerns and fears (p < .001), concerns about seizure management (p < .001), need for information and support (p < .001), and uncertainty in illness [total uncertainty (p < .001), ambiguity (p < .001), lack of clarity (p < .001), and lack of information (p < .05)] after the intervention than before. As predicted, parents had significantly higher scores post intervention for knowledge about seizures (p < .001) and mood (p < .001). Although parent scores on satisfaction with family functioning were more positive and scores on unpredictability were lower, results did not reach statistical significance. Conclusions: Overall, Be Seizure Smart was a successful intervention program. A major strength of the program was that it was tailored to meet each parent's individual needs, allowing parents to discuss specific concerns with the research nurse. The program can be easily transferable to the clinical setting as the pre-assessment takes only 10 minutes and the 1-page fact sheets are already developed. Follow-up phone calls to discuss the written materials could prove to be cost effective by decreasing the number of office visits and physician calls. (Supported by: Funded by grant # P30 NR05035 (PI: Austin, Joan K.) from the National Institute of Nursing Research (NINR) to the Center for Enhancing Quality of Life in Chronic Illness at Indiana University School of Nursing.) 1 Christine A. Restivo-Pritzl, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 1 Veronica N. Sosa, and 1 George L. Morris III ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St. Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: Health-related quality of life (H-RQOL) is a middle range nursing theory that reflects the nursing profession's emphasis upon holistic and individualized patient care. Simply defined, the concept of H-RQOL may represent an individual's satisfaction with a specific area of life that he or she has identified as vital. Wilson and Cleary identify five determinants that influence and are influenced by overall QOL to produce an individual's H-RQOL: biological and physiological variables, symptoms, functional status (including the physical, social, role, and psychological/spiritual domains), and general health perceptions. This model illustrates how the diagnosis of epilepsy may exert influence that is far-reaching and pivotal upon all aspects of an individual's life. Children and adolescents are in the midst of vital developmental stages, with the desired end result being the attainment of a sense personal and interpersonal competence as well as personal identity. Anxiety related to the fear of experiencing seizures in public, feelings of ?different-ness? from peers, dependence upon others, and the stigma that plagues the diagnosis of epilepsy may present a significant obstacle to an individual's psychosocial development, and may result in problems that affect every aspect of every day living. The purpose of this project is to explore the actual impact of the epilepsy diagnosis upon the H-RQOL among the children and adolescents care for at a regional epilepsy center, as well as to determine the necessity of including an abbreviated H-RQOL evaluation as part of the nursing assessment at clinic visits. Methods: An abbreviated H-RQOL assessment tool was developed based upon the QOLIE-31 scale. Questions were selected to represent areas of life that were deemed significant to children of school age and adolescents?self-concept, family life, social life, and medications. During scheduled appointments, as part of the interval nursing assessment, patients were provided a scoring tool and asked scripted questions by a registered nurse. Results: To date, five children have been interviewed, ranging from 10 to 15 years of age. When asked to rate their current life satisfaction on a Likert scale of 1 (?Very unhappy with life right now?) to 5 (?Very happy?), the average response was 2.4. All of the respondents stated that they worry about having a seizure, as well as feel that having seizures affects their grades. Two of the children interviewed stated that their epilepsy makes them feel different from others. Conclusions: Data collection is ongoing, and it is impossible to draw accurate conclusions with such a small sample size. However, it is clear from these few responses that the diagnosis of seizures is one that affects many areas of a child's life, and inclusion in the nursing assessment may be crucial to limit negative impact upon psychosocial development. 1 Deborah L. Shulman, 1 Bryn M. Corbett, 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Luann C. Helepololei, 1 Lisa M. Tapsell, 1 Katherine H. Noe, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, and 1 Joseph I. Sirven ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Hospital, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: A considerable amount of information is presented to the patient prior to their EMU admission. Much of the information is provided in an educational booklet that all patients receive from the physician during their medical appointment or in the mail after the admission date has been scheduled. Many patients have stated during their admission that they were not informed of certain issues pertaining to an EMU stay. These issues include but are not inclusive to; memory testing, use of a safety belt, and the necessity of staying in their room while being closely monitored. Some patients become upset about not being aware of aspects of their stay and become frustrated when they realize the implication of how being on the EMU affects them. A comprehensive EMU booklet is given to every patient preadmission, however, it is unclear if the information within the booklet was presented but not processed or if it was presented at all. A brief questionnaire was constructed to help guide the formation of an educational tool. This will enable us to provide adequate patient education and set appropriate expectations to promote better health outcomes Methods: Patients who were admitted to the EMU in April 2006 were surveyed by a 12 question instrument designed to assess expectations prior to the admission. Surveys were conducted by telephone retrospectively. Some aspects of the survey included; assessment of knowledge of the use of safety belts, memory testing, use of sleep deprivation to invoke seizures, use of an intravenous cannula, and if the patient received the information booklet. Results: 12 surveys were completed, 4 male and 8 female with the age range being 37?77 years and 52 the average age of respondents. Fifty-eight percent had received and read the EMU information booklet, however, these same patients all claimed they did not know they would have memory testing. 42% claimed they did not know about the use of a safety belt, and 85% did not know they would be sleep deprived. This information is contained in the booklet, and 75% of all respondents felt they were able to ask questions and discuss expectations prior to the admission. Conclusions: It would appear that adequate patient education is provided but not necessarily understood despite receiving an EMU booklet and having the opportunity to discuss its contents. This approach may not be enough to insure positive EMU outcomes that we seek. Supplementary education is needed which could include a tour of the EMU prior to admission or assessing how patients themselves define the best method for them to learn. This may assist with setting appropriate expectations to promote better health outcomes. A larger population based study is needed to define how to best structure educational programs relating to diagnostic epilepsy procedures in order to meet the needs of our patients. 1 Siv Skarstein, 1 Vibeke Snarseth, and 2 Erik Taub?ll ( 1 National Centre for Epilepsy, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, Oslo, Norway ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ) Rationale: Patients with epilepsy and autism represent a complex group that require specialist treatment and care. At the National Centre for Epilepsy we experienced a high readmission rate for this patient group. Carers expressed uncertainty on how best to manage these patients and their seizures. The aim of this study was to develop an educational program to increase competence among carers, thereby reducing readmission to a specialist epilepsy hospital. Methods: Sixteen consecutive adult patients (7 women, 9 men) with autism and difficult to treat epilepsy admitted to the National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Norway, from 01.01.2004 to 12.31.2005 were included. A three-phase, standardized program was designed. This consisted of: 1) a pre-hospitalization visit to establish patient needs with regard to the management of epilepsy and psychosocial problems, 2) a hospitalization phase where the individual needs of the patient revealed in phase 1 were further defined. The carers were given specialized and individualized information about epilepsy and behavioural/psychosocial problems relating to their patient, and 3) a post-hospitalization phase consisting of an individual plan and a follow-up visit at home. A survey for carer satisfaction was performed 1 month after discharge. Results: The main finding in this study is that only 1 of the 16 patients have so far been readmitted to the hospital (Mean observation time: 16.4 months, range: 8?33 months). The survey for carer satisfaction revealed that in 9 cases the carers felt that they managed the problems related to the patient's epilepsy better. In 11 cases, the initiatives suggested by the hospital were implemented at home. In 15 cases, the carers found that the defined needs of the patient established in the pre-hospital phase were adhered to. Conclusions: A new educational program aimed at increasing competence among carers of patients with epilepsy and autism was shown to be effective. The readmission rate to hospital was dramatically reduced. Carers and staff felt more secure and competent when dealing with this complex patient group. 1 Pamela L. Smith, 1 Jennifer M. Burgos, 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, and 1 Veronica N. Sosa ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, Saint Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: Lamictal is an approved antiepileptic drug used as add-on-therapy for partial seizures in the adult and pediatric population. It has also been approved as initial monotherapy in adults newly diagosed with seizures, as well as conversion of Lamictal add-on-therapy to monotherapy in adults with partial sizures. Serious rashes requiring hospitalization and discontinuation of treatment, have been reported with the use of Lamictal. The incidence of these rashed is about 0.8% in the pediatirc population (age 16 and under) and 0.3% in adults receiving Lamictal as adjunctive therapy for epilepsy. Other then age, there are no known factors that could be identifyers in predicting the rash occurrence. Nearly all cases of serious rashes have occurred within 2?8 weeks of initiation of treatment. However, rare cases have been reported after prolonged treatment. Methods: To date, a retrospective analysis of 151 medical records identified 22 adults and 4 pediatric patients (age 16 and under) on Lamictal therapy admitted for inpatient VEEG monitoring since November 2002. Results: The 22 adults or 14.57% of the admitted population, had an average hospital length of stay of 3.2 days and were receiving an average daily dose of Lamictal 400 mgm. The 4 pediatric patients or 2.65% of the admitted population, had an average hospital lenth of stay of 7.2 days and were receiving an average daily dose of Lamictal 450 mgm. Upon discharge and dose resumption, none of the patients displayed any evidence of rash. Conclusions: In this study, we saw that both adult and pediatric patients can have their Lamictal dose discontinued and reintroduced without the emergence of a serious rash. Data collection is ongoing and needs to have similar outcomes to validate these outcomes. 1 Chase A. Allen, and 1 Malachy L. Bishop ( 1 Rehabilitation Psychology and Special Education, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI; and Special Education and Rehabilitation Counseling, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY ) Rationale: The problematic employment situation for people with epilepsy has been well established. The unemployment rate experienced by people with epilepsy has frequently been shown to be higher than that found in the general population. Numerous efforts at understanding the employment problems faced by persons with epilepsy have revealed a complex interrelationship of causes and explanations, including seizure-related variables, psychosocial factors, negative employer attitudes and discrimination, and fear of stigma and discrimination. In an effort to further clarify the situation and update understanding of changing employer attitudes, this research explored employer attitudes toward epilepsy as compared to other chronic conditions, and the implications of describing one's epilepsy using different terms (seizure condition, seizure disorder, epilepsy). Methods: In this survey-based research we surveyed 50 human resources professionals and employers in a Southeastern United State. We presented the employers and HR professionals with several descriptions of hypothetical applicants with various chronic conditions (e.g., AIDS, epilepsy, mental retardation, cancer, heart disease) and asked them to rank and rate the applicants based on their willingness to hire a similar individual at their company. The influences of work experience, education, and other demographic variables were controlled. In addition, we varied the use of the terms seizure condition, seizure disorder, and epilepsy in describing the individual with epilepsy. Analysis of variance and descriptive statistics were used to analyze the results. Results: Data collection is currently ongoing, and full results will be presented, however results to date are consistent with prior similar research concerning employers' attitudes toward epilepsy and hiring individuals with epilepsy, relative to other conditions. The use of the term epilepsy appears to be less positive from the employers' perspective that the alternatives, however the results are not yet conclusive. Conclusions: The results have important implications for epilepsy professionals engaged in assisting persons with epilepsy in seeking and maintaining employment. The present study highlights, in particular, the ongoing concern about epilepsy-related stigma in the area of employment. 1 Malachy L. Bishop, and 1 Chase A. Allen ( 1 Special Education and Rehabilitation Counseling, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY; and Rehabilitation Psychology and Special Education, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI ) Rationale: Epilepsy, perhaps more than any other chronic illness, has the potential to impact experience across the range of physical, psychological, and social domains of living. Understanding the mechanisms through which epilepsy affects psychosocial function, and the processes that people employ to adapt to this impact are a critical focus of epilepsy research toward effective clinical intervention. This research evaluates the disability centrality model, a multi-dimensional quality of life-based model of psychosocial impact and adaptation among persons with epilepsy. Methods: This research employed a web-based survey methodology to test the assumptions of the disability centrality model. Adults were recruited through Epilepsy Foundation affiliates in the Southeast United States. A total of 42 adults with epilepsy completed a questionnaire that included the Disability Centrality Scale, which assesses the respondents' level of satisfaction, epilepsy-related impact, perceived control, and the level of importance ascribed to each of ten empirically derived quality of life domains. Additionally, demographic information, duration since diagnosis, and two well-established measures of quality of life and psychosocial adaptation were employed. Hypothesized relationships among these variables, based on the model, were assessed in a series of multiple regression analyses. Results: A number of elements of the proposed model were supported. Domain control and satisfaction mediated the relationship between perceived impact and overall QOL, and psychosocial adaptation. Domain importance moderated the relationship between epilepsy-impact and adaptation. The relationships between QOL, adaptation, and duration and demographic variables were also explored. Conclusions: The results of this preliminary investigation are consistent with larger scale investigations among persons with multiple sclerosis and other chronic conditions, and support the proposed model. There are a number of important clinical and research implications. The results suggest that the psychosocial impact of epilepsy is experienced multidimensionally, across a range of life domains. Perceived domain control over the impact of epilepsy acts as an important mediator in the relationship between the experiences associated with epilepsy and one's overall QOL. In addition, the individual's perception of the personal importance of the domains moderates the impact of epilepsy. The results suggest two important venues for clinical intervention in enhancing quality of life among individuals with epilepsy: interventions aimed at enhancing perceived control, such as self-management and patient education, as well as those that expand the individual's means of attaining satisfaction. 1 Peggy Crawford, 1 Farrah M. Thomas, and 2 Noah Webster ( 1 Department of Neurology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Department of Sociology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Major depression is a frequently unrecognized and untreated comorbidity in chronic epilepsy. In particular, the psychological status of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery is a critical issue in clinical management and a major factor in quality of life. Changes in mood both positive and negative and psychiatric status have been noted with surgery. Multiple factors have been implicated in mood changes after surgery including epilepsy-specific variables such as laterality, location of seizures, and seizure outcome as well as psychosocial variables including personality traits. The purpose of this study is to investigate the mental health of epilepsy patients prior to surgery in order to identify disorders and symptoms amenable to treatment. Methods: Participants are two hundred and twenty-five adults (44% male, 88% Caucasian, 44% married, 42.1% employed full or part-time) aged 18?75 with medically intractable epilepsy undergoing evaluation for surgery at the Cleveland Clinic. They participated in a Health Psychology evaluation that included chart review for demographic, disease, and health-related information; clinical interview concerning current and past psychological status; and self-report measures of mood, fatigue, and daytime sleepiness Results: Based on self-report, 65% reported a positive mental health history including depression in 50.2%, anxiety 15.6%, bipolar disorder 1.3% and psychosis 2.7%. Regarding treatment, 43.8% had previously seen a mental health professional and 41.8% had used psychotropic medication. Based on pre-operative Beck Depression Inventory responses, 16.9% were mildly depressed, 27.9% moderately depressed, and 11.5% severely depressed. In contrast, only 5.8% were taking psychotropic medication. Pre-operatively, both employment (full or part-time) and marital status (married) were associated with lower depression scores. Although patients who had ever used psychotropic medication were more likely to have higher pre-operative depression scores, those currently taking psychotropic medication were not. Conclusions: Comparable to previous studies, we found high rates of depression including almost 40% of patients reporting moderate to severe depression. In spite of this, many patients had never seen a mental health professional and even fewer had taken psychotropic medication (only 5.8% at the time of the evaluation) both known to be effective treatments for depression. It is not clear why patients are not being identified and/or treated. One possibility is that both professionals and patients assume that depression is common with medically intractable epilepsy and consequently treatment is not recommended or sought. These findings support the routine assessment of all patients being considered for epilepsy surgery in order to identify and initiate treatment of depression regardless of whether or not patients have surgery. 1 Manjari Tripathi, 1 Sandra Dewar, 1 Itzhak Fried, 1 Zhiyi Sha, 1 David Millet, 1 Andres Gonzales, 1 Kathleen Langlois, 1 John Stern, 1 Schrader Lara, 1 Soss Jason, and 1 Engel Jerome ( 1 Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Surgery, Division of Neurosurgery, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA; and Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Older age at surgery is considered to carry higher surgical risk. There are few reports on surgical outcome in this age group. We report a series of 51 patients over 45 years of age who had surgery between 1992 and 2005 at UCLA. A prospective seizure outcome data collection was done. Methods: The inclusion criteria were intractable epilepsy, a minimum of 12 months follow-up, and patients 45 years and older at surgery. The last follow-up, done in 2006 for all patients included a computer assisted telephonic interview of the life fulfillment satisfaction scale (Liverpool QOL questionnaire). The following factors were considered: Satisfaction with surgery, life changes in the spheres of health, driving, working, adjustment issues, patients perception to general health and reasons for delay in obtaining surgery. Results: The mean age of surgery in the series was 52 years (range 45?74). The mean follow up was 4.3 years (range 1?11 years.) Mean duration of epilepsy was 29.3 years (range 2?55 yrs). Most patients would have had surgery earlier but gave failure to refer and lack of knowledge about surgery as reasons for delay. The age of onset was divided into 3 groups those between 1?10 years (n = 18), 11?20 years (n = 12) and more than 21 years (n = 22). Forty patients (80%) had an Engel class I outcome. Four had an outcome of II, the rest had a poor outcome. Impact of nocturnal seizures only (n = 3) (Engel class II) was high, contrary to expectations. The life fulfillment scores averaged 38 (range 16 to 49) out of a total of 52 and did not correlate to the patients perceived satisfaction with surgery and were lower for those patients with poor social recovery and multiple adjustment issues. There were 5 deaths in this group, only one of these was directly related to surgery and occurred 3 wks after surgery. Conclusions: Seizure outcome was excellent but poor social recovery and low life satisfaction scores were frequently recorded. Age should not limit access to surgery; however, the missed opportunity for psychosocial improvement, reducing the impact and promoting healthy aging and life satisfaction should prompt early surgery. 3 Kristin P. Guilliams, 2 Jesus F. Martinez, and 1 Nathan B. Fountain ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; 2 Neurology, Hospital Nacional Rosales, San Salvador, El Salvador ; and 3 Pediatrics, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: Perceptions may directly or indirectly influence the quality of care physicians provide. This is particularly true in epilepsy, as misperceptions and prejudices have been noted by the Global Campaign Against Epilepsy and targeted in their ?Out of the Shadows? campaign. Physicians are a major source of health information; their beliefs have a trickle-down effect to the general population. A physician's own comfort level treating certain diseases may also influence the quality of care he or she is able to provide. We surveyed physicians in El Salvador about their perceptions and comfort levels of treating patients with epilepsy. Methods: We surveyed 27 physicians in San Salvador, El Salvador. Eight practiced in neurology-related fields (neurology, pediatric neurology, or neurosurgery). Nineteen were in primary care fields (generalist or gynecology). All reported treating patients with epilepsy. Surveys were conducted at educational meetings in San Salvador. Part A asked participants to rate their agreement on a scale from 1 to 5 where 1 indicates disagreement and 5 indicates agreement for 11 statements in reference to persons with epilepsy. Part B was identical to A, except it specifically referred to persons with well-controlled epilepsy. Part C asked participants to rate their comfort level in treating patients with epilepsy on a scale from 1 to 5. It also requested age, field of medicine, and years in practice. Results: The average sum on Part A for neurology related physicians (NRP) was 45.63 out of 55; the average for primary care physicians (PCP) was 42.84. The average sum on Part B for NRPs was 49.25; the average sum for primary care physicians was 47.79. Statements with a difference of greater than 1 point between the two groups include: Part A, ?Persons with epilepsy should be open about their disease with others,? NRPs averaged 3.25 on a scale from 1 to 5. PCPs averaged 4.35 on the same statement. On the same statement in Part B, NRPs averaged 3.5, and PCPs averaged 4.7. In Part B ?Persons with well-controlled epilepsy should not be obligated to inform schools or employers of disease,? NRPs averaged 2.88 on a scale of 1 to 5, whereas PCPs averaged 3.94. The average comfort score for NRPs was 4.63, and 2.79 for PCPs. Conclusions: Salvadoran physicians appear to have positive perceptions of persons with epilepsy. Although both NRPs and PCPs treat patients with epilepsy, PCPs are significantly less comfortable treating patients with epilepsy. Further research is needed to determine patients' perceptions of physician and general population attitudes towards epilepsy. Further education is warranted to give PCPs information and confidence to become more comfortable in managing the treatment of their patients with epilepsy. (Supported by Center for Global Health at the University of Virginia.) 1 Elena T. Harlan Drewel, 1 Debora J. Bell, and 2 Joan K. Austin ( 1 Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, MO ; and 2 School of Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy are at risk for long-term psychosocial problems compared to healthy children or children with other health conditions, which may be due to peer difficulties. Peer relationships influence children's immediate and lifelong social and emotional well-being, and research shows that children with epilepsy have more peer difficulties than do healthy children or children with other health conditions. Few studies investigate variables related to peer problems in children with epilepsy. Inattentive behavior, anxious behavior, and academic difficulties are linked to peer problems among healthy children; these same variables are likely related to peer problems among children with epilepsy. Yet, also examining if epilepsy-related factors such as neuropsychological functioning and seizure characteristics are associated with peer difficulties is important because it may clarify why children with epilepsy are at greater risk for peer problems compared to other children. Hence, the current study determined if epilepsy-related factors such as neuropsychological deficits, greater seizure frequency, and earlier age at epilepsy onset as well as behavioral/academic factors such as inattentive behavior, anxious behavior, and academic difficulties are related to peer problems in children with epilepsy. Methods: Participants were 173 children with epilepsy, ages 8?15. Correlations among predictor and outcome variables were examined to determine their interrelations with one another; structural equation modeling was used to investigate simultaneous interrelations among latent factors. Results: The measurement model indicated that correlations among the behavioral, academic, epilepsy-related, and peer difficulty factors were significant and in the predicted direction. The structural model revealed that the neuropsychological factor mediated the relation between age at epilepsy onset and the behavioral, academic, and peer difficulty factors; anxious behavior and inattentive behavior mediated the relation between the neuropsychological and peer difficulty factors; anxious behavior mediated the relation between seizure frequency and the peer difficulty factor. Conclusions: Neuropsychological deficits and greater seizure frequency may have a direct influence on behavior problems in children with epilepsy and, therefore, may affect their peer relations. Thus, when treating behavioral and peer difficulties in children with epilepsy, mental health professionals may wish to consult with neuropsychologists and physicians regarding the potential influence of neuropsychological and seizure-related variables. (Supported by National Institute of Nursing Research grant PHS R01 NR04536 awarded to Joan K. Austin, DNS, RN, FAAN.) 1 Bosil Kim, 1 Hee Jin Kang, 1 Hee Jin Kim, 1 Geon Ha Kim, 2 Eun Jung Chung, 2 Eui Jung, and 1 Hyang Woon Lee ( 1 Neurology, College of Medicine, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Republic of Korea ; and 2 Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: Epilepsy may have a significant impact on the intelligence and emotions especially in childhood and adolescent ages. The objective of this study was to elucidate the clinical factors influencing the patient's intelligence, anxiety and depression in children and adolescents with epilepsy. Methods: Subjects were 90 epilepsy patients between the ages of 6 and 17 years (mean 11.8 ± 3.9 years) and their parents. We acquired simplified neuropsychological tests including verbal, performance and full scale IQ, the Stroop and the Trail-making test (TMT) from each patient. They also filled up the Impact of Childhood Illness Scale (ICIS), the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), the Revised Children's Manifest Anxiety Scale (RCMAS), the Children's Depression Inventory (CDI), the Questionnaire on Resources and Stress (QRS), the Family Adaptability and Cohesion Evaluation Scales (FACES) in children with epilepsy and their families. We compared the differences across patient groups according to the clinical factors such as seizure frequency, epilepsy types and duration, mono- or polytherapy, etc. Results: Full scale IQ was lower in patients with poor seizure control than seizure free group (75.0 ± 29.0 vs. 101.6 ± 23.1; p = 0.029), and in patients with polytherapy than monotherapy (72.6 ± 27.4 vs. 102.7 ± 22.1; p = 0.029). ICIS, QRS, CBCL and Conners scale were higher when patients had poor seizure control (p = 0.011, 0.027, 0.047 and 0.075, respectively), and took more than one antiepileptic drugs (p = 0.008, 0.003, 0.022 and 0.033). STAI and RCMAS were higher in patients with epilepsy within the first 2 years or longer than 4 years (p = 0.023 and 0.043). Increased parental anxiety based on STAI were correlated with increased ICIS, RCMAS, CDI, and Conners scale (p = 0.002, 0.002, 0.009, and 0.004). Conclusions: Epilepsy patients in childhood and adolescent ages have significant impacts on their intelligence and emotions if they have poorly controlled seizures or take more than one antiepileptic medications. 1 Yolanda C. Leon, 3 Joseph Sesta, 2 Selim Benbadis, and 2 William O. Tatum ( 1 Clinical Research, Pediatric Epilepsy and Neurology Specialists?PENS, Tampa, FL ; 2 Neurology, University of South Florida/Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, FL ; and 3 Suncoast Neuropsychology Labs, Riverview, FL ) Rationale: In recent years, increasing interest in the emotional experience of patients with seizure disorders has stimulated investigation of various emotional states. Considerable emphasis has been placed on the study of depression and anxiety. Of the studies available, relatively few, if any, have investigaged the construct of anger among patiens with seizures. Although previous studies have examined differences between patients with spileptic seizures (ES) and patients with Psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES), the emphasis has been on the assessment of depression and anxiety. The primary goal of this preliminary study was to examine the experience, expression and control of anger in patients with seizures utilizing the most widely researched, standardized and validated Anger measure that utilized in behavioral health settings, the State Trait Anger Expression Inventory (STAXI-2). A secondary goal of the study was to compare Anger measures of patients with ES and PNES. Methods: Subjects were drawn from a series of adult patients referred for long-term video EEG monitoring as part of a comprehensive evaluation for refractory seizures at the USF College of Medicine?Tampa General Hospital Comprehensive Epilepsy Program. Patients with a definitive diagnosis of either ES or PNES as determined by EEG video Monitoring were included. Only those patients that did not complete the STAXI-2 were excluded. Results: Patients with ES and PNES have higher Trait Anger scores and higher Anger Expression scores than those of the normative sample. Patients with PNES have higher Trait Anger Reaction and Anger-In scores than patients with ES or the normative sample. Conclusions: The findings of the preliminary study suggest that there are significant differences in the way patients with seizures experience and express anger. Further, there are differences between patients with ES and PNES. These findings suggest that the STAXI-2 successfully differentiates ES patients from PNES patients in terms of their suppression and expression of anger. Future research is needed to investigate how different types of epilepsy patients experience anger, how it motivates their behavior and impacts their health. The implications for psychotherapeutic intervention and treatment planning should be explored. 1 Sophia Macrodimitris ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, Calgary Health Region, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Community samples of epilepsy patients experience higher rates of depression (9?25%) and anxiety (10?25%) disorders than the general population (depression 2?9%; anxiety 2.5?6.5%). In treatment resistant epilepsy, estimates are even higher (e.g., depression 25?55%). Despite these issues, many epilepsy programs do not adequately assess for or address mental health problems. This paper describes program development and referral practices during the first year of a clinical psychology service devoted to epilepsy patients. Methods: Participants: 132 consecutive SMU admissions over 10 months were explored for clinical psychology and psychiatry referrals. 1657 consecutive outpatient visits over 6 months were explored for clinical psychology referrals. All referrals were from epileptologists (n = 7). Procedure: The Clinical Psychology Service was developed separately from Neuropsychology in two phases: Phase I: Seizure Monitoring Unit (SMU); Phase II: Outpatient. Phase I SMU: Neurologists and nurses completed a referral package: referral form, patient history, and patient-completed background information questionnaire. Nurses contacted the psychologist when the referral was completed. Referrals were reviewed by the psychologist for appropriateness. Phase II Outpatient: Referral package (same as SMU) was forwarded to the psychologist for one of three possible services: assessment only; assessment and brief (up to 6 sessions) therapy; and therapy only. Clinical psychology referral information was tracked in an excel database. Overall SMU admission rates were obtained from the master SMU admission list. Number of outpatient visits for each epileptologist was provided by the Clinical Neurosciences program manager. Results: SMU: 52.5% (n = 72) received a clinical psychology assessment; 18.5% (n = 24) received a psychiatry assessment. Overlap in referrals to clinical psychology and psychiatry occurred in the first month. Psychology referrals increased in months 3?5. Referrals reduced in later months. OUTPATIENT: 2.4% (n = 40) of clinic visits to epileptologists were referred for outpatient services. Referral rates ranged from 0?4.7% per neurologist. Rates varied according to years of experience (i.e., junior neurologists referred more often) and number of visits (i.e., junior neurologists with more visits referred more often). Conclusions: Clinical psychology services are well-integrated into the SMU but referrals to the outpatient service remain low, particularly when compared to the established rates of mental health problems in epilepsy patients. The low referral rates may reflect the ?newness? of the resource. It may also reflect poor mental health assessment practices at clinic visits. Despite the low outpatient referral rate, the clinical psychology service maintains a 3?4 month waiting list, suggesting that more outpatient resources (e.g., groups) are required prior to increasing the number of referrals to the program. 1 Edna A. Monteiro, 1 Sandra S. Funayama, 1 Ricardo Guarnieri, 1 Otávio I. De Faria, 1 Vera C. Terra-Bustamante, 1 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 Veriano Alexandre Jr., 1 Lauro Wichert-Ana, 2 Jo?o A. Assirati Jr., 2 Carlos G. Carlotti Jr., 3 Li M. Li, 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Américo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Jaime E. Hallak ( 1 CIREP-Department of Neurology, Psychiatry, and Medical Psychology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; 2 Department of Neurosurgery, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 3 Department of Neurology, University of Campinas?UNICAMP, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) SHE scales scores according to seizure frequency Seizure Frequency Work and activity Social and personal Physical Self- perception Life- satisfaction Changes Seizure-free group (n = 36) (versus not seizure free) 88*[81,95] 82*[74,90] 77*[71,84] 77*[70,85] 72*[67,77] 75*[69,80] SPS or < 1 sz/month (n = 18) (versus >or = 1 sz/month) 81*[71,91] 83*[71,94] 70*[61,80] 72*[62,83] 69*[62,76] 66*[58,74] 1?4 sz/month (n = 71) (versus > 4 sz/month) 55*[50,60] ?65 [59,71] ?52 [48,57] ?45 [39,50] ?61 [57,65] 55*[51,59] > 4 sz/month (n = 94) ?44 [39,48] ?56 [51,61] ?45 [41,49] ?36 [31,40] ?56 [53,59] ?47*[44,50] SPS = simple partial seizures, Sz = seizure. *(p < 0.05 or less). Rationale: Health quality of life evaluations have been used to improve our capacity to assess the impact of diseases to the individuals. Because quality of life evaluations might be greatly dependent on subjective aspects, tools designed to assess these aspects are interesting. Donoghue and collegues (Brain 1998; 121:317?43) have designed and validated a tool to evaluate the subjective handicap of epilepsy. However, it has been validated in patients from UK, but it is uncertain whether it could be successfully used in other populations with diverse culture and distinct subjective values. Methods: The Subjective Handicap of Epilepsy scale (SHE) was translated to Portuguese and back-translated to English. After test-retest, the SHE was administered to 219 adult patients (115 men and 104 women, mean age of 35.4 (18?66) years-old with focal symptomatic epilepsy, not submitted to epilepsy surgery. Patients were divided in 4 sub-groups according to seizure frequency. Data was analyzed by a Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA), using Wilks' Lambda as the multivariate test and Student-Newman-Keuls as a post hoc test for multiple comparisons between the six sub-scales scores of SHE. Results are expressed in mean SHE-scale scores (95% C.I.). Results: Multivarate analysis reveled a significant difference of SHE-sub-scales means among the four groups of seizure control (Wilks' Lambda = 0.57; F= 579.23; p < 0.0001). The results of post-hoc comparisons are presented in Table. Conclusions: Here, we validate the SHE scale to Brazilian Patients. SHE scores are similar in Brazilian patients when compared to England patients. Thus, we concluded that SHE is reliable and applicable to evaluate the long-term consequences of epilepsy in our population. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Christine O'Dell, 1 Shlomo Shinnar, 2 Avital Cnaan, 1 David Masur, 2 Mayadah Shabbout, 3 Paul M. Levisohn, 4 Deborah Hirtz, 5 Peter C. Adamson, 6 Tracy A. Glauser, and 7CAE Study Team ( 1 Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; 2 Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA ; 3 Neurology, The Children's Hospital, Denver, CO ; 4 National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Rockville, MD ; 5 The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA ; and 6 Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Childhood Absence Epilepsy (CAE) is associated with a high incidence of adverse behavioral and cognitive outcomes. As part of a large, multi-center trial of CAE we are obtaining a variety of behavioral and quality of life information using the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) and the Quality of Life in Childhood Epilepsy (QOLCE) at baseline and regular intervals thereafter. We present the baseline CBCL and QOLCE findings. Methods: To date, 153 subjects with newly diagnosed, untreated CAE have been enrolled. Included were 36 (24%) children under 6 year of age and 117 (76%) age 6 or older. All CBCL scores were reviewed by a central scorer (CO) to ensure accuracy and that problems were not counted twice. Results were then entered in a central database and computer scored. Baseline CBCL data has been coded and scored in 102 cases including 21 under age 6 and 81 age 6 or older. QOLCE scores were available in 33 (23%) children < 6 years and 109 children (77%) > age 6. Results: The mean overall CBCL scores were 53.6 (s.d.11.6), with 20 (20%) of children with abnormal scores and 12 (12%) with borderline scores. Scores were similar for both the internalizing and externalizing groupings of syndromes. For the internalizing scale 17 (17%) of children had abnormal scores and 12 (12%) had borderline scores. Similarly, for the externalizing scale 17 (17%) had abnormal scores and 5 (5%) had borderline scores. There were no major differences in scores in younger versus older children. Attentional issues were the most commonly identified complaints though they only met DSM criteria in the older children. The mean QOLCE scores in our sample were 72 and were similar in both younger and older children. These scores are substantially higher, indicating a better quality of life, than the mean score of 51 reported in the sample of children with intractable epilepsy on which the scale was normed. Conclusions: Approximately 30% of children with newly diagnosed CAE demonstrate abnormal or borderline scores on the CBCL indicating a high rate of potential problems. The QOL scores indicate less concerns than in children with refractory epilepsy. Long term follow-up of the cohort will demonstrate whether the problems in behavior and QOL improve or worsen with time and whether or not they will improve if seizures are successfully treated. (Supported by grants NS 045911 and NS 045803 from NINDS.) 1 Ada Piazzini, 2 Giovanna Ramaglia, 1 Rosanna Chifari, 1 Katherine Turner, 1 Elisabeth El Kiky, 1 Aglaia Vignoli, 1 Alessia Goracci, 1 Valentina Chiesa, 1 Raffaele Canger, and 1 Maria Paola Canevini ( 1 Epilepsy Center, St. Paolo Hospital, Milan, Italy ; and 2 Department of Educational Sciences, University of Turin, Turin, Italy ) Rationale: The aim of the study is to verify whether patients with drug resistant epilepsy and those with seizure free epilepsy adopt different coping styles in dealing with pathology, and to correlate the results to their psycho-social adjustment. Methods: The administered instruments were the following: the Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices (non verbal intelligence), the Echelle Toulousaine de Coping ?ETC- (Coping styles), the Self-esteem Questionnaire (self-esteem), the Self-efficacy Questionnaire (social self-efficacy), a Quality of Life measure and a semi-structured interview on psycho-social adjustment. All these measures were administered to 50 drug resistant epilepsy and to 50 seizure-free patients. Results: We found a significant difference in coping responses between the two groups: drug resistant patients adopted more the ?denial? and the ?exclusion? strategies (p < 0.05), on the contrary, seizure-free subjects used more the ?control? (p < 0.05). A significant correlation between disengagement patterns and poorer social outcomes was pointed out, while ?control? was associated with a better social adaptation. Conclusions: Our findings provide evidence of the importance of coping assessment, considering the influence of these strategies on patients' well-being. The possibility to offer to epilepsy patients a psychological support which orientates their coping styles, in order to alter them from the ineffective to the more efficacious ones should be considered. 1 M. Pramuka, 2 R. Hendrickson, 3 A. Zinski, and 2,4 A.C. Van Cott ( 1 Dept of Rehab Science and Technology, University of Pittsburgh, PGH, PA ; 2 Dept of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh, PGH, PA ; 3 Dept of Health Behavior, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL ; and 4 Neurology Division, VAPHCS, PGH, PA ) Rationale: Self management approaches to reduce disability and increase emotional well being have been helpful in the treatment of chronic medical conditions. We developed a 6 week group-based self management-intervention (SMI) for IWE. We hypothesized that subjects who participated in the intervention would show an improved quality of life (QOL) compared to those in the treatment as usual group. Methods: Individuals aged ≥18 years treated for epilepsy at the University of Pittsburgh Epilepsy Center or its VA Hospital were eligible to participate. 61 adults (43 men, 18 women; age range 21?79) consented and were randomized to treatment in the SMI (31) or treatment as usual (24). Measures included the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-89 (QOLIE-89), Washington Psychosocial Seizure Inventory (WPSI), Locus of Control (LOC), and Epilepsy Self-Efficacy Scale-2000 (ESES). We followed an intent-to-treat study design; 6 withdrew prior to baseline testing and 13 did not follow up after baseline assessment. Treatment analysis included 19 controls and 19 IWE who participated in the SMI and completed baseline and follow up testing. SPSS 13.0 was used for analysis. Mean differences and their 95% confidence intervals were examined between groups using ANCOVA controlling for baseline scores. Partial Eta2 effect size estimates were examined. Results: There was no significant difference between patient demographics at the two sites or the two groups, although IWE with later seizure onset and men were over represented at the VA. Statistically significant differences were not found in overall QOL or other primary outcome measures, and effect sizes were small (≤0.05). The treatment group showed a statistically significant improvement (p = 0.039) in QOLIE-Role Limitations Emotional score at follow up compared to the change in the control group. Strong and significant correlations were observed between QOL and self-efficacy (r = 0.523), QOL and psychosocial/medical function as measured by the WPSI (r =?0.768) and between QOL and locus of control (r = 0.458). Conclusions: There was no significant change in overall QOL following SMI and effect sizes were small. A statistically significant positive change was demonstrated in one parameter of QOL (Role Limitations Emotional), although this might not be clinically meaningful. The strengths of this study were: a) the development of a SMI program targeting IWE b) use of a control group and randomization c) successful recruitment of a larger sample size compared to prior studies and d) the strong associations among outcome measures. Limitations included recruitment challenges, attrition, and insufficient power to detect meaningful change. Future projects will examine alternative methods of administering SMIs to IWE. (Supported by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).) 1 Tatiana I. Silva, 2 Joyce A. Cramer, 1 Neide B. Alonso, 1 Luis Otavio S.F. Caboclo, and 1 Elza Marcia T. Yacubian ( 1 Unidade de Pesquisa E Tratamento Das Epilepsias (UNIPETE)?Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Division of Neurology, Federal University of S?o Paulo (UNIFESP), Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Quality of Life in Epilepsy?31 (QOLIE-31) has been the most worldwide used instrument due to its concise and easy evaluation. The objective of this work is to describe the cultural adaptation and psychometric properties of the QOLIE-31 for the Portuguese language. Methods: This study involved 150 outpatients: 50 pre-surgical patients with diagnosis of refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) due to mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS); fifty with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) and uncontrolled seizures; and 50 seizure-free TLE patients, with seizure remission of at least 6 months. The patients completed the following questionnaires: QOLIE-31, Nottingham Health Profile (NHP), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Adverse Events Profile (AEP) and a neuropsychological evaluation. Patients answered the QOLIE-31 twice on the first day (interviewers 1 and 2) and after 7 days (interviewer 1). Translation and cultural adaptation into Portuguese had the following phases: translation into Portuguese by two independent parallel translators; back-translation by two independent native English-speaking teachers, fluent in Portuguese; creation of a final version by a panel of experts. This was tested in a study including 30 outpatients with epilepsy. Results: One question needed modification: item 28 needed complementary information. It was added: ?Social Limitations, in other words, fell that you can't go out or live together with different people.? Among the 150 subjects (53% women) the mean age was 31 and the mean duration of epilepsy was 15 years. Concerning socio-demographic characteristics, 59 (39%) had primary school, 68 (45%) secondary and 23 (16%) higher education. In relation to seizure frequency, 68 (52%) had no seizures in the last 6 months, 53 (35%) 1?5, 15 (10%) 6?10 and 4 (3%) more than 10/month. High internal consistency showed by Cronbach's alpha coefficient ranging from 0.746 to 0.932. Inter-rater reliability was strong with ICC ranging from 0.933 (Overall Quality of Life) to 0.997 (Medication Effects, Seizure Worry and Social Function). After one week, the reliability was also high with ICC ranging from 0.917 (Overall Quality of Life) to 0.995 (Medication Effects). There was a high association between QOLIE-31 and BDI (Spearmann's correlations) (p ≤ 0.005). QOLIE-31 and NHP had an association as well as neuropsychological evaluation. The responsiveness of QOLIE-31 between the groups showed significant changes (p > 0.005). Conclusions: Our results support the psychometric properties of the Portuguese version of the QOLIE-31 as a measure of HRQL. (Supported by FAPESP (Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo).) 2.024 Comparison of Quality of Life and Burden over Caregivers of Patient with Temporal Lobe Epilepsy and Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Ana Carolina Westphal-Guitti, Neide Barreira Alonso, Tatiana Indelicato da Silva, Luís Otávio Sales Ferreira Caboclo, and Elza Márcia Targas Yacubian (UNIPETE (Unidade de Pesquisa E Tratamento Das Epilepsias), Universidade Federal de S?o Paulo (UNIFESP), S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil) Rationale: The impact of chronic diseases in the family can result in burden and decrease of the caregiver's quality of life (QOL). Epilepsy in general and mainly drug those resistant, represents great impact over caregiver's QOL . Objective: To evaluate and compare QOL and burden over caregivers of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) due to mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) and patient with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). Methods: We evaluated 50 caregivers of patients with TLE due to MTS and 50 caregivers of patients with JME. We used Brazilian version of Zarit Caregiver Burden Scale (ZCBS) to assess burden over caregivers; this scale provides scores from 0 (no burden) to 88 (maximum burden). QOL was evaluated using the Medical Outcomes Study Inventory 36?Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36)?which evaluates different domains of QOL. A socio-demographic questionnaire was applied to characterize the population. Results: The mean age and duration of disease of patient with TLE were respectively 36.42 and 25.6 and for patients with JME were 25.48 and 14.32. There was mild to moderate burden in both groups, with ZCBS average score of 25.5 for the JME group and 30.7 for the TLE. There was a significant association among all domains of SF-36 and the burden over caregivers of patients with JME: general health (p = 0.000); functional capacity (p = 0.003); physical role (p = 0.022); emotional role (p = 0.000); bodily pain (p = 0.025); social aspects (p = 0.020); vitality (p = 0.001); mental health (p = 0.000). However in the caregivers of patients with TLE the only associations observed were seen in the domains emotional role (p = 0.011), vitality (p = 0.008) and mental health (p = 0.002), suggesting interference of emotional problems in the daily activities in the caregiver's life. No difference was observed when comparing the domains of SF-36 Inventory and ZCBS between JME and TLE in the comparison of the groups. Conclusions: Our results show significant compromising in QOL of caregivers of patient with TLE and JME. Caregivers of patients of both groups are similarly burdened. There was no difference in the QOL between the two groups studied. (Supported by FAPESP (Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo) and CAPES (Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior)/CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico).) 1 Eishi Asano ( 1 Pediatrics and Neurology, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: BLOG (Web Log) is a new internet media system characterized by a frequent, chronological publication of personal thoughts with multiple Web links. The author investigated whether a ?fiction novel? on BLOG describing a girl undergoing epilepsy surgery can potentially facilitate familiarity to epilepsy surgery among the general internet users in Japan. The author also assessed whether BLOG can serve as a survey tool in psychosocial research. Methods: The author's BLOG (URL: http://blogs.yahoo.co.jp/eishi_asano_md_phd) was used to publish a serial novel and to conduct a survey among internet users. The serial novel was initiated on July 13, 2005 and ended on December 4, 2005, and consisted of 125 chapters with a number of illustrations. A survey designed to measure familiarity with epilepsy surgery was prospectively conducted using the BLOG. A single questionnaire was posted on the survey section of the BLOG on November 28, 2005. It was announced that the survey would be closed on December 4, 2005, regardless of the number of responders. None of the responders were rewarded for taking part in this survey. In addition, the number of daily public accesses to the BLOG and the Official Web Site of the Japan Epilepsy Society (JES) were measured during the survey period. Results: The BLOG obtained about 80?500 daily public accesses without any external funding support, and the total number of accesses to the BLOG from July 13 to December 4, 2005 was 20,718. The mean of daily accesses during the survey period was 135 for the BLOG and 181 for the JES Web site. A total of 27 users responded to the questionnaire during the survey period. Sixteen responders indicated that this novel facilitated awareness of epilepsy surgery, and eight indicated that they have been already aware of epilepsy surgery even before reading the novel. Conclusions: A public outreach in epilepsy surgery may be possible using BLOG, but the magnitude of public outreach in this project has been quite small. Major advantages of BLOG as a tool for outreach and survey include a small cost and high speediness. Technical limitations of BLOG-based surveys include limited coverage, non-response bias, and incompatible hardware or software. A better outreach system may be required to increase the number of patients with uncontrolled seizures benefiting from epilepsy surgery. [figure 1] 1,2 Ann M.E. Bye, 2 Anne M. Connolly, 3 Clare Netherton, 3 Peter Looker, 2 Annette Burgess, and 4 Amy Lonergan ( 1 Department of Neurology, Sydney Children's Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia ; 2 School of Women's and Children's Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia ; 3 The Learning and Teaching Unit, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia ; and 4 Telemetry Unit, Sydney Children's Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia ) Rationale: Changing clinical practice, increasing demands on academic staff, and advances in information technology that alter student learning practices present serious challenges to medical teaching. These factors demand exploration of current teaching approaches to ensure desired outcomes of learning are achieved. The present study investigated learner perceptions of interest, clinical confidence and usefulness of lecture content in the teaching of childhood epilepsy. Methods: The presentation of the lecture was modelled on an interactive lecturing approach utilizing open questioning, illustration of history taking with clinical cases, simulations, role plays and video. Seven lectures to fifth year medical students (n = 113) and junior doctors (n = 36) were evaluated using pre- and post-lecture rating scales, open-ended questions and focus group discussions. Critical reflection by the lecturer and observational data by independent learning consultants were also collected. Results: There were significant pre- to post-lecture increases in interest in the topic of childhood epilepsy (p = 0.001), and clinical confidence in recognizing a seizure (p < 0.0005). Females demonstrated a larger mean increase in interest following the lecture (p = 0.014). Local participants (p = 0.031) and junior doctors (p = 0.001) found the lecture content more interesting. Seventy percent of participants found the lecture very useful in assisting learning. Participants who completed their previous education in Australia (p = 0.043) and junior doctors (p = 0.001) found the lecture more useful. Open-ended questions and focus group discussion showed that videos were the most useful tool. A structured approach to the classification of epilepsy and the interactive commentary provided by the lecturer were also helpful. Lecturer reflection and peer observation supported participant data. Conclusions: The outcome measures of interest, clinical confidence and usefulness are key components in learning evaluation and important parameters that influence student perceptions of medical training. The use of video and a structured approach to teaching childhood epilepsy within an interactive lecturing format promoted interest, clinical confidence and usefulness of the lecture content in assisting learning. Determining what teaching approach is effective in achieving optimal outcomes in these three domains has broad implications for medical training beyond the topic of childhood epilepsy. 1 Angelia M. Paschal, 2,3 Liow Kore, 1 Suzanne R. Hawley, 1 Jamilia Sly, and 1 Craig A. Molgaard ( 1 Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita, Wichita, KS ; 2 Internal Medicine, University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita, Wichita, KS ; and 3 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: A paucity of information exists in the literature about perspectives on epilepsy educational campaigns from the patients' point of view. Information is lacking on their opinions about what should be featured in such initiatives, how these awareness efforts should be conducted, and to whom to aim them. The purpose of this study was to gain a better understanding of epilepsy patients' opinions and preferences on these issues. Methods: A survey was administered to 165 adults treated for epilepsy. Subjects were 18 years of age and older and were mostly female (62%) and Caucasian (82%). The 48-item survey included questions about the patient's thoughts on misperceptions of epilepsy in the general public and among other epilepsy patients, and what could be done to address these misperceptions. Descriptive frequencies were run for each variable, as well as measures of central tendency for continuous variables. Correlations and independent samples t-tests were run on selected variables. Results: Results indicated that almost two-thirds (65%) of the sample believed that stress and problems in their lives would be alleviated if the public was better educated about epilepsy and seizures. Survey respondents thought the general public lacked adequate knowledge about epilepsy (90%) and that education and awareness is needed. Common misperceptions in the public pertained to inappropriately reacting to seizures, believing that all epilepsy patients suffered from severe seizures, and that epilepsy is associated with a mental illness. Educational venues considered to be most effective for the public included television ads, medical offices, and workplace programs. Patients indicated that it was very important to include information about reacting to seizures and about epilepsy in general. Additional findings are provided. The respondents (88%) were almost equally desirous of a campaign for individuals with epilepsy. The information perceived to be most useful in an education campaign for epilepsy patients pertained to treatment options and modalities, self-management of epilepsy, and general information about epilepsy. Medical offices and brochures were perceived to be the most effective modes of education promotion. Additional results are discussed. Conclusions: In summary, the need for epilepsy education and awareness campaigns among the general public as well as epilepsy patients is needed to help decrease stigma, according to the respondents in this study. The current study of patients' views about epilepsy education and awareness needs provides a new perspective as well as an important foundation for the development of interventions. 1 Amy R. Loomis-Roux, 1 Tina Smith-Bonahue, and 2 Paul R. Carney ( 1 Educational Psychology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 2 Pediatrics, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Epilepsy has the potential to profoundly impact a child's adjustment to school. A large body of literature documents that children with epilepsy are at increased risk for cognitive impairment, learning disabilities, special education placement, and behavioral and emotional problems (Williams, 2004). The importance of successful adjustment to school for children with chronic illnesses is also well supported by the literature, yet many children with epilepsy continue to experience difficulties with school adjustment, even in the absence of cognitive impairment or learning disabilities (Madan-Swain, Katz,  2 Division of Biostatistics, Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ; 3 Department of Psychiatry, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ; and 4 Department of Environments for Health, Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Scant information exists regarding the effect of EEG or MRI findings on seizure recurrence in neurologically normal children. Our goal was to refine patient classification into high and low risk of seizure recurrence for normal children by defining risk factors based on EEG and MRI findings. Methods: Children were prospectively recruited at the parent institutions as part of a study of child and family adaptation to epilepsy and followed to 27 months after enrollment. Inclusion criteria: children 6?14 years old who had their first recognized afebrile seizure within 3 months of recruitment and who had both EEG and MRI data. Exclusion criteria: presence of a chronic neurological illness affecting activities of living, abnormal neurologic or developmental exam, or scoring <80 on the Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test. Absence and atonic seizure patients were excluded. These criteria left 85 patients for the study. Each child was assigned a predominant seizure type based on the ILAE classifications. EEG data was classified by a) overall interpretation, b) epileptiform discharges, c) slowing. Epileptiform activity and slowing were defined as focal or diffuse. MRI images were classified for the presence of cortical or white matter lesions, encephalomalacia, enlarged lateral ventricles, atrophy, hemorrhage, vascular lesion, prominence of extra-axial fluid spaces > 1 cm, or ?other? findings. The children were followed as clinically appropriate and had an interview every 9 months to update seizure semiology and frequency. Recurrence was defined as a 2nd unprovoked seizure occurring >24 hours after the first seizure. X2 analysis was used to compare recurrence with EEG and MRI findings. Results: A recurrent unprovoked seizure occurred in 65.9% of patients. EEG and MRI were abnormal in 64.7% and 32.9% of patients, respectively. A significant abnormality occurred in 10.6% of MRI's. No association was found between recurrence of seizures and the baseline EEG (X2 p = 0.71), between recurrence of seizures and a normal MRI (X2 p = 0.23), or between recurrence of seizures and an abnormal MRI with significant abnormalities (X2 p = 0.12). Conclusions: Our EEG and MRI findings in neurologically normal children lend support to the current practice of using the clinical course to dictate the treatment plan. Although it appears that MRI abnormalities are not predictive of seizure recurrence, a trend toward significance is noted for significant MRI abnormalities. (Supported by Grant PHS R01 NS22416 from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke to JKA.) 1 Kristin A. Bakke, 1 Ann-Sofie Eriksson, and 2 Wilson John ( 1 Pediatric Department, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Norway ; and 2 Department of Neurodiagnostics, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Norway ) Rationale: The EEG pattern of CSWS (continuous spike waves during slow sleep) may influence language or cognitive functions. Recently, we have seen many children with a CSWS-like EEG pattern. The aim of this study was to assess school performance and behavior in such children treated with levetiracetam (LEV). Methods: We performed a prospective open label intervention study in 50 children (age: 5?12 yr) in whom 24-h EEG showed a vast increase of epileptiform activity during slow wave sleep. We employed a new method for assessment of nocturnal epileptiform discharges developed at our epilepsy centre. The children had spike-indexes of 30?90% of slow wave sleep. 25?35% of them was either seizure free or had never experienced epileptic seizures. Language/dyslectic problems, ADHD or concentration- and behavioral problems appeared to be the most common clinical disabilities. Moreover, some patients had symptoms within the autism spectrum disorders (ASD). LEV treatment was given (usually as add on) in doses 20?25 mg/kg/day, after 4?8 weeks of titration. 24-hour EEG was performed after 3?7 months of treatment. A reduction in epileptiform activity was assessed as either reduction in percentage time of spiking or as bifocal epileptiform activity becoming monofocal. Parents were asked about changes in the children's behavior, cognitive functions or school performance. Results: LEV caused a reduction in epileptiform activity in 24-h EEG in 65% of the patients. 24-h EEG became normal within 6 months in 25% of the cases. Parents reported positive clinical effects in more than half of those cases with an improved or normalized EEG. Conclusions: Children may benefit from treatment of sleep-related epileptiform activity in EEG, also when such activity are less prominent than in classical CSWS. Perhaps CSWS is only the ?tip of the iceberg?? We believe that our observations call for further studies within this exciting field. (Supported by National centre for epilepsy, Norway.) 1 Anne T. Berg, 2 Barbara G. Vickrey, 3 Francine M. Testa, 3 Susan R. Levy, 4 Shlomo Shinnar, 3 Susan N. Smith, 3 Barbara Beckerman, and 5 Francis DiMario ( 1 Biology, NIH, DeKalb, IL ; 2 Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Montefiore Hospital, Bronx, NY ; and 5 Neurology, CCMC, Hartford, CT ) Rationale: Seizure outcomes are usually studied at one point in time and assumed to be static. Increasing evidence indicates this is not the case. Methods: In a prospective study of 613 children with epilepsy newly diagnosed in 1993?97, patterns of remission, relapse, and poor outcome were characterized in those children with idiopathic/cryptogenic (I/C) epilepsy and followed ≥8y. Syndromes were grouped as idiopathic localization-related (ILRE), cryptogenic focal (CFE), idiopathic generalized (IGE), and undetermined (UND). The minimum time seizure-free to be considered a remission was 1y, and remission of ≥5y was considered a good outcome. Results: 437 children had I/C epilepsy of whom 393 (90%) were followed ≥8 y (max 13y). The best possible outcome, no seizures since diagnosis, occurred in 69 (18%) and the worst, failure of 2 AEDs and never achieved 5y seizure-free at any time, occurred in 36 (9%). An additional 148 (38%) were at least 5y seizure-free at last contact after having seizures during the first one (n = 99) through several years (n = 49) after initial diagnosis. Another 63 (16%) had episodes of repeated brief remissions (1?2 years long) with relapses but are now ≥5y seizure-free. Finally 24 (6%) had achieved a 5y remission at some point but then relapsed, and 59 (15%) had achieved multiple briefer (1?3y) periods of remission with repeated relapse but were never 5y seizure-free. Syndrome group was strongly associated with the seizure outcome pattern (p < 0.0001). Most of the effect was due to the ILRE group having much better outcomes than the other three groups which were generally indistinguishable from each other. The IGE group, however, was significantly less likely to have the best outcome than any of each of the other three groups (all p = < 0.01). In a total of 616 ≥1year remission periods experienced by the 393 children, 272 remission periods ended in a relapse: 35% without any apparent provocation, 12% in association with noncompliance, 6% during tapering of AEDs, 33% after all AEDs were stopped, 3% in association with illness, and 11% in other settings. Conclusions: Although most children with I/C epilepsy achieve prolonged periods seizure-free, seizure outcome patterns over many years are complex and dynamic. A simple characterization at one point in time may not be the most informative approach for studying determinates of seizure outcome or for studying the effects of seizures on social, educational, and other endpoints of interest in young people with epilepsy. (Supported by NIH NINDS-RO1-NS31146.) 1 Rachel Berman, 2 Michiro Negishi, 3 Marissa Spann, 4 Miro Enev, 2 R. Todd Constable, 3,4,5 Edward J. Novotny, and 1,3,4 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Neuroscience, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 2 Diagnostic Radiology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 3 Neurosurgery, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Yale University, Fairfax, CT ; and 5 Pediatrics, Yale University, Fairfax, CT ) Rationale: Absence seizures consist of brief 5?10 s episodes of unresponsiveness, associated with a 3?4 Hz ?spike-wave? discharges on EEG. The fundamental mechanisms of impaired attention in childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) are not known. By understanding the mechanisms and brain regions crucial for impaired attention in this patient population, new treatments may be developed with the goal of blocking seizures and preserving attention. Mechanisms of impaired attention in this form of epilepsy may have implications for treating other types of epilepsy as well. Methods: We have used simultaneous EEG and fMRI while testing attentional vigilance with a continuous performance task (CPT) in pediatric patients with typical absence seizures. To increase the chance of recording absence seizures, medications were held for up to 48 hours. Simultaneous EEG-fMRI data were acquired using a 3T MR system with continuous EPI BOLD sequence. EEG artifact was removed by post-processing using temporal PCA-based gradient noise removal. fMRI data was analyzed using SPM2. Results: We found significant ictal BOLD signal increases in bilateral thalamus. Moderate increases were also seen in the cingulate, lateral frontal, and parietal cortex. Decreased BOLD signal was present in the retrosplenial cortex, and to a lesser degree in the bilateral frontoparietal cortex. When testing CAE patients with CPT during the interictal period, significant BOLD signal increases were seen in the bilateral fronto-polar cortex, anterior cingulate, dorsolateral frontal and parieto-occipital cortex, left fusiform gyrus, bilateral medial thalamus, upper brainstem, and cerebellum. Decreases during CPT were seen in bilateral orbital frontal cortex, precuneus, and large areas of the lateral cerebral hemispheres. Our behavioral measurements indicate ictal omission errors in 5 of 7 absence seizures that occurred during the CPT task. Omission error rate (% missed target letter X on CPT) was significantly higher in CAE patients than controls, 3.05% in CAE patients off meds, and 0.89% in controls (p = 0.04, two-tailed t-test). Variability in performance was also higher in the CAE group, where omission error rate varied from 0% to 11% between trials, while in controls it varied from 0% to 5%. Conclusions: These results demonstrate the feasibility of obtaining high quality EEG-fMRI during behavioral testing in pediatric patients with CAE. As in adult patients, increases and decreases were seen in frontoparietal and thalamic networks. Our initial findings also suggest that the attentional networks involved in CPT overlap with thalamocortical networks affected by CAE. (Supported by Betsy and Jonathan Blattmachr fund.) 1 Ghassan Hmaimess, 1 Fabrice Wallois, and 1 Patrik Berquin ( 1 Pediatrc Department, St George Hospital, Beirut, Ashrafieh, Lebanon; Pediatric Neurology Unit, Hopital Nord, Amiens, Somme, France, Metropolitan; and Unite D Exploration Fonctiopnnelle, Hopital Nord, Amiens, Somme, France, Metropolitan ) Rationale: We report a tow new cases of ?peri-oral myoclonia with absence,? a rare epileptic syndrome recently described by Panayiotopoulos et al (1994), with no effective treatment. Methods: Patient 1: A 15-years teenager with no particular personal and family history was referred to our center for ?absence? seizures that were refractory to treatment with lamotrigine. Clinical and neurological examinations were normal. His mother highlighted that during the ?absence? fits, she noticed labial shivering and twitching. It is also noteworthy that a month after the onset of ?absence? seizures, he presented a tonico-clonic fit. Cerebral T2-weighted MRI showed bilateral frontal hypersignal. A video electroencephalogram revealed that peri-oral myoclonia was concomitantly associated with generalised 3?4 Hz spike-waves. We added Sodium valproate to his base-line treatment with lamotrigine. Lamotrigine was subsequently withdrawn. Patient 2: A 14-years old male (with history of generalised fit at age of 5 years treated with sodium valpoate for 7 years) presented for perioral myoclonia with loss of consciousness followed, 3 weeks later, by one episode of GTCS. A video electroencephalogram revealed a peri-oral myoclonia associated with generalised 3?4 Hz spike-waves; Cerebral MRI was normal. At presentation he was treated with sodium valproate. The GTCS was stopped but he has persistence of absence seizures. We added lamotrigine without improvement. Finally the levetiracetam decreased the rate of seizures by 50%. Results: One month after starting sodium valproate, the first patient had no more absences, and the EEG became normal. The second patient showed 50% reduction of absence after starting levetiracetam. Conclusions: We report an ?atypical? and typical new case of ?peri-oral myoclonia with absence? in one of them abnormal cerebral MRI changes were detected.It could be argued if the first patient is a variant of the condition described by Panayiotopoulos as ?peri-oral myoclonia with absence,? with the additional finding of cerebral MRI frontal disorders. Conversely, this patient may be viewed as a case with frontal cerebral abnormalities presenting with peri-oral myoclonia and absence. At the present state of knowledge, it is not known if such a distinction makes any valid difference. However, this observation probably widens the spectrum of findings in this newly described entity. Furthermore, while this condition is known to be refractory to treatment. The first patient respond favourably to sodium valproate and the second to levetiracetam. Our follow-up should, however, be continued beyond the few-month window of opportunity. 1 Marlene A. Blackman, 1,2 Elaine C. Wirrell, and 1,2 Lorie D. Hamiwka ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Alberta Childrens Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: To determine the frequency of atypical clinical or electrographic features in children with BREC seen in a tertiary care children's hospital. Methods: All children diagnosed with BREC seen through the Neurology Clinic of the Alberta Children's Hospital over an 8 year period were retrospectively identified. Charts were reviewed for the presence of atypical clinical and electrographic features. Atypical clinical features included daytime only seizures, atypical semiology, status epilepticus, developmental delay or learning problems, seizures refractory to ≥2 AEDs, seizure number >25 over the course of their epilepsy. Atypical electrographic features included background slowing or location of spikes outside the centrotemporal region. Results: 66 children were identified (mean age at seizure onset 7 yrs, range 3?12, gender 45M:21F). AED treatment was initiated in 39 (59%). Atypical clinical features were present in 27 (41%) and included daytime only seizures in 10, atypical semiology in 3, status epilepticus in 2, developmental delay/learning disorders in 11, refractory seizures in 2 and high seizure number in 5. Atypical electrographic features were present in 15 (23%) including atypical location in 13 and background slowing in 2. No patient had more than one atypical electrographic feature. Atypical electrographic features did not occur more commonly amongst those with atypical clinical features (p = 0.14). Patients with atypical clinical or electrographic features were neither more likely to be treated with AEDs (p = 0.40) nor less likely to achieve a period of 1 year seizure-freedom at last follow-up (p = 0.47) compared to those without these features. Conclusions: Atypical clinical and electrographic features are commonly seen in children with BREC but do not appear to adversely affect prognosis. (Supported by Alberta Childrens Hospital Foundation.) 1 D.F. Clarke, 1 J.W. Wheless, and 2 D. Carpenter ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, University of Tennessee, Memphis, TN ; and 2 Comprehensive NeuroSciences, Inc., White Plains, NY ) Rationale: Over the past 12 years, many new epilepsy treatments have been approved. For most pediatric epilepsy syndromes no trials compare active therapies, further compounding treatment decisions. We sought to address the shortcomings by using the expert consensus method, and conducted the first European survey in pediatrics. Methods: Forty-two pediatric epilepsy experts completed the Pediatric Epilepsy Consensus Survey. The experts answered 33 questions, with 418 possible answers. Topics addressed were 1) overall treatment strategy (sequencing both drug and non-pharmacologic treatment) for common childhood epilepsies; and, 2) specific treatment choices for common childhood epilepsies. Results: Valproate was the drug of choice and the only agent felt to be first line therapy for the treatment of symptomatic myoclonic and generalized tonic clonic seizures. Vigabatrin was the drug of choice for infantile spasm secondary to tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and for symptomatic infantile spasms. Valproate was the drug of choice in treating astatic seizures in a child with Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome (LGS); however, if this was not successful, then topiramate and lamotrigine were considered first line therapy. Valproate was the first choice for treatment of childhood absence epilepsy (CAE), whereas ethosuximide and lamotrigine were considered first line choices. Valproate was the drug of choice for juvenile absence epilepsy, and lamotrigine was a first line choice. Valproate was the only first line agent and considered the drug of choice for the treatment of benign rolandic epilepsy of childhood. Carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, and valproate were all considered first line choices to treat cryptogenic complex partial seizures of childhood. Valproate and lamotrigine were considered first line agents to treat juvenile myoclonic epilepsy in an adolescent male or female. Rectal diazepam was the first choice for the acute treatment of a febrile seizure, while valproate was considered the first choice for preventative therapy. The treatment sequence for either complex partial or generalized tonic clonic status epilepticus (S.E.) was either intravenous (IV) diazepam or lorazepam, followed by IV phenytoin or fosphenytoin, if needed. The treatment sequence for absence SE was IV diazepam, followed by IV valproate, if needed. Phenobarbital was the first choice in treating neonatal seizures. Conclusions: The results of the first European Pediatric Epilepsy Expert Survey can be used to develop overall treatment strategies and choices of specific medications for seizure emergencies in childhood, and specific childhood epilepsy syndromes. These can be used to help guide future comparative multi-centered treatment trials in pediatric epilepsy and in specific epilepsy syndromes unique to pediatrics. (Supported by Abbott, Cyberonics, Novartis, Ortho-McNeil, GSK, UCB, and Shire.) 1 Joy M. Fairbanks, 1 Natalie C. Cunningham, 1 Philip S. Fastenau, 2 Susan M. Perkins, 3 David W. Dunn, and 4 Joan K. Austin ( 1 Psychology, Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN ; 2 Biostatistics, Indiana University School Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ; 3 Psychiatry, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ; and 4 Environments for Health, Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy are at risk for behavioral problems. Attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has been reported more frequently than any other problem. Even though children with epilepsy have higher prevalence rates of ADHD, it remains unclear if they are at risk for being under-identified and under-treated for the disorder. We sought to determine whether the proportions of children with epilepsy were identified as having ADHD equally by the school and by measures incorporating DSM criteria. Methods: Participants were 86 children with chronic epilepsy. Children were assessed at baseline, 12 months, and 24 months. The mean age at 24 months was 13.73 (SD = 1.97), age of seizure onset was 6.25 (SD = 3.64), 50% were females, and 15.1% were left-handed. Parents completed an educational services survey, on which they indicated whether the child was currently classified by their school as having ADHD (yes/no). In addition, parents completed the Child Symptom Inventory (CSI) or Adolescent Symptoms Inventory (ASI) symptom checklists with severity scores that may be used for diagnosis of ADHD based on DSM IV criteria. Results: McNemar's test was conducted to determine whether there were similar rates of ADHD classification by the CSI/ASI and educational services survey over the 24 months. Forty eight percent of the children were classified as ADHD by CSI/ASI criteria, whereas only 29% were classified as ADHD in the educational services survey (McNemar's chi-square = 8.33, p-value = .004). There were 27 total discrepancies between the classification types. Of these 27, 6 (22%) were children not meeting the CSI/ASI criteria who were classified as ADHD by the survey (false positives), and 21 (78%) were classified as ADHD by CSI/ASI but were not classified as ADHD in the schools (false negatives). Conclusions: These findings suggest that ADHD is a common problem for children with epilepsy and careful monitoring is important. It appears children with epilepsy might be at risk for under-identification of ADHD when symptoms are present. Hence, children that could benefit from additional educational services might not have access to these important resources. (Supported by PHS R01 NR04536 from NIH/NINR to J.K.A.) 1 Laura A. Filimon, 2 Justin M. Keener, 1 H. Steve White, 1 Karen S. Wilcox, and 2 Joanna Beachy ( 1 Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ; and 2 Pediatrics, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ) Rationale: Neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) insults have been associated with periventricular leukomalacia (PVL). As a result, affected patients are at an increased risk for developing mental retardation, epilepsy and/or cerebral palsy. The Levine model of HI has been modified such that the degree and length of hypoxia (6% for 1 hour) leads to a specific reduction in myelin basic protein (MBP) and decreased seizure threshold to kainic acid (KA) at P11 (Levine Am J Pathol 1960;36:1?17;Follett et al JNeurosci 2004;24:4412?20; Koh et al Epilepsia 2004;45:569?75). Thus, using this 6% rat model of PVL we evaluated the effect of HI on KA-induced seizure threshold and amygdala kindling aquisition. Additionally animals were monitored for the presence of spontaneous ictal discharges. Methods: Post-natal day 7 (P7) Sprague-Dawley rat pups were anesthetized with isoflurane and their right carotid artery ligated. Pups were allowed to recover for at least 1.5 hours and were then placed in a 6% O2 chamber for one hour; body temperature was maintained at 35°C using a heating pad. Males and females from several litters were divided into HI-lesioned and naive controls. Two pups were sacrificed at P11 and MBP damage was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. The remaining animals (P90?120) were subjected to either 10 mg/kg KA (males: HI n = 8, naive n = 12; females: HI n = 6, naive n = 10) or amygdala kindling (males: HI n = 5; naive n = 6; females: HI n = 9; naive n = 14). At 9 months of age five animals were monitored for the presence of spontaneous seizures using implanted surface electrodes. Results: HI at P7 resulted in significant loss of MBP at P11. To assess KA susceptibility the following endpoints were measured: latency to 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th seizures, latency to wet dog shakes, total seizure number, number of stage III and V seizures, latency to stage III and V seizures, and incidence of death. Among these endpoints no difference in KA seizure threshold was evident between HI and naive rats regardless of sex. There was no significant difference in amygdala kindling aquisition (male or female). However, the after-discharge threshold of male HI rats was lower than that of naive rats (HI = 140 mA ± 53; naive = 207 mA ± 21). Three (2 males and 1 female) of the 5 rats (3 males and 2 females) exhibited spontaneous electrographic bursts. Conclusions: Consistent with previous reports, we observed marked damage to MBP four days post HI (P11). Furthermore, HI-injured rats displayed a reduced amygdala after-discharge threshold. Consistent with a previous report using the Levine model, HI rats displayed spontaneous electrographic bursting (Williams et al Epilepsia 2004;45:1210?1218). Future video-EEG studies will evaluate the ontogeny of EEG bursts and assess the severity of clinical seizures. (Supported by Pediatric Pharmacology Program, Department of Pediatrics, University of Utah (LAF).) 1 L. Matthew Frank, 2 Dale C. Hesdorffer, 3 Christine O'Dell, 4 John M. Pellock, 5 Douglas R. Nordli, 6 Darrell V. Lewis, 4 Anthony Marmarou, 3 Shlomo Shinnar, and FEBSTAT Study Team ( 1 Department of Pediatrics, Eastern Virgnia Medical School, Norfolk, VA ; 2 GH Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 3 Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; 4 Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 5 Pediatric Neurology, Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL ; and 6 Neurology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC ) Rationale: In children with a prolonged febrile seizure, a lumbar puncture is indicated to exclude the possibilty of an intracranial infection. There is a common belief that some degree of pleocytosis is expected simply as a result of the prolonged seizure and fever. We evaluated the CSF findings in a prospective multicenter study of febrile status epilepticus in children. Methods: FEBSTAT is a prospective multicenter study of febrile status epilepticus (≥30 min) designed to determine whether prolonged febrile seizures cause acute hippocampal damage with mesial temporal sclerosis. Although not part of the research protocol, many of these children had a lumbar puncture performed. CSF results were coded and analyzed. More than 20 WBCs in the CSF was an exclusion criterion, but no child was excluded solely as a result of having more than 20 WBCs. Results: Of the first 102 children enrolled, 80 (78%) had a lumbar punture performed. At present, CSF data on 73 of these 80 is available for analysis. Of these 73 CSF specimens, 22 (30%) had zero WBCs, 29 (40%) had one WBC, 11 (15%) had two WBCs, 4 (5%) had three WBCs and one (1%) had 4 WBCs. Six (8%) specimens had 5 or more WBCs (two with 6 WBCs, two with 8 WBCs and one each with 11 and 16 WBCs.) However, of the six cases with 5 or more WBCs, 5 were traumatic with 5100 to 51,000 RBCs. In all 5 cases, the number of WBCs was fully consistent with the RBC count. Thus there was only one atraumatic lumbar punture with more than 5 WBCs (6 WBCs) and only 2 children with more than 3 WBCs. The protein and glucose were unremakable in these children. The number of WBCs was not affected by duration of the seizure (<60 minutes vs >60 minutes,) seizure focality, the age of the child (<18 months vs ≥18 months) or peak temperature. Conclusions: CSF pleocytosis is very uncommon following even prolonged febrile seizures in children. A finding of more than five WBCs in the CSF from a nontraumatic lumbar punture should be a cause for concern in any child with a seizure and fever. (Supported by: Funded by grant NS 43209 ?Consequences of Prolonged Febrile Seizures in Childhood? NINDS.) 1 Felicia Gliksman, 1 Li Kan, and 1 Joseph Maytal ( 1 Division of Pediatric Neurology, Schneider Children's Hospital, New Hyde Park, NY ) Rationale: The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of levetiracetam in children with idiopathic generalized epilepsy. A previous review showed levetiracetam to be most effective in children with partial onset seizures as well as being well tolerated with few reported side effects. Preliminary studies show levetiracetam to be effective for treating idiopathic generalized epilepsy in adult patients but few results are available in children with generalized idiopathic epilepsy. Methods: A retrospective chart review was performed in a tertiary center on children ages 2?18 years old with idiopathic generalized epilepsy that have been treated with levetiracetam up until May 2006. The data included patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy for example, myoclonic, tonic, and atonic seizures. Pure absence seizures were excluded but absence mixed with other convulsive types were accepted. Also excluded were patients with symptomatic and partial seizures. Data was recorded on: patient age, gender, type of epilepsy, existing anti-epileptic therapy, dose and duration of treatment with levetiracetam, patient/caregiver assessment of seizure frequency, and adverse events. Results: A total of 15 patients fulfilled the inclusion criteria of this study. Daily levetiracetam dose ranged from 9.1 to 73.2 mg/kg/day (average 35.2 mg/kg/day). The mean number of concomitant use of other anti-epileptic drug (AED) was 0.9 which included lamotrigine, primidone, oxcarbazepine, valproic acid, carbamazepine, phenytoin, topiramate. The mean number of total AEDs per patient was 1.6. The demographic characteristics included: Age: 2.3?18 years (mean, 10.6 years), Sex: 9 females, 6 males, Generalized tonic clonic 11/15 (73.3%), Absence (mixed type) 6/15 (40%), Myoclonic 5/15 (33.3%), Tonic 1/15 (6.7%), Atonic 2/15 (13.3%). Nine out of fifteen patients (60%) showed a good response to levetiracetam with reduction in seizure frequency. Four out of fifteen patients (26.7%) became seizure free and 5/15 (33.3%) patients had fewer seizure frequency with therapy. Five out of fifteen patients (33.3%) had no response to therapy. Of those with generalized tonic clonic epilepsy, 4/11 (36.4%) had become seizure free, 3/11 (27.2%) had a decrease in seizure frequency, and 3/11 (27.2%) showed no response. Adverse effects occurred in four children (26.6%) including behavioral change (1/15), tiredness (1/15), decrease appetite (1/15), and reason unknown (1/15) (child was seen as an in-patient and followed at an outlying hospital). Conclusions: Treatment with levetiracetam resulted in reduction of seizure frequency in 60% of the patients included in this study. Levetiracetam was efficacious and safe for use in children with idiopathic generalized epilepsy with few, mild side effects reported. (Supported by UCB Pharma.) 1 Oksana V. Globa, 2 Elena G. Sorokina, 1 Natalya G. Zvonkova, 1 Natalya A. Basarnaya, and 3 Elena L. Semikina ( 1 Neurology, Scientific Center of Child Health, RAMS, Moscow, Russian Federation ; 2 Laboratory of Membranology and Genetic Group, Scientific Center of Child Health, RAMS, Moscow, Russian Federation ; and 3 Laboratory of Clinical Diagnostic, Scientific Center of Child Health, RAMS, Moscow, Russian Federation ) Rationale: We searched for the immunity changing and autoimmunity correlation in epilepsy patients. Glutamate is a major excitatory neurotransmitter that also triggers a neurodegeneration as a result of excessive stimulation of postsynaptic receptors in epilepsy, brain ischemia and CNStrauma. This process was hypothesized as the major cause for the neuronal loss, chronic inflammatory changes in neurological patients and may leads to the autoantibodies(aAB) to glutamate receptors(GluRs) synthesis. Clinical and experimental data support the role of immune mechanisms during epilepsy pathogenesis. Methods: The serum level of lymphocyte subpopulations (obtained by immunocytochemical methods) and the serum level of GluRs-aAB (ELISA, synthetic peptides-analogues of GluR1(AMPA) and NR2A(NMDA) subunits were used as antigens) were estimated in pediatric patients with epilepsy(Epi), mild brain trauma(BT), mitochondrial diseases(MD) and in 20 children of control group(CG). Results: In Epi(n = 60) GluRs-aAB level was significantly higher vs CG(GluR1179 ± 15,3c.u.,NR2A161,4 ± 14c.u.)(p < 0.05). In follow-up studies GluR1aAB level was decreased in E remission, NR2A was still elevated. In acute period of BT(n = 20) the GluRs-aAB was high(p < 0,05) but the elevation of NR2AaAB was higher than GluR1.In 6?12 mnths follow-up studies GluR1aABlevel was significantly elevated in children with repeated BT and posttraumatic epilepsy. In patients with MD(n = 15), even without seizures, the GluRs-aAB was high. Epileptic seizures is the common sign of MD. We have found the significant increase of CD8+lymphocytes, in activation markersCD122+, CD16 + 56+ and decrease in CD19+ in Epi patients(n = 20).We have also found the high level of CD122+, low level of CD19+ in MDpatients(n = 5), the decrease in Tlymphocytes subpopulations and the increase of CD122+ in children with BT(n = 7). The most immunological deteriorations were related to the temporal lobe focus. We did not find correlation between the immunological changes and the GluRs-aAB levels. Conclusions: Data obtained show that in E, BT and MD glutamate receptors are damaged as a result of excititoxicity. NMDARs dysfunction is observed in all diseases mentioned above. AMPARs damage is more specific for E and the elevation of GluR1aAB level is a risk for E developed in BT and MD. Changes in immological parameters in pediatric patients with epilepsies were not correlated with the glutamate-mediated autoimmunity. 1 Peter Gradisnik, and 2 Vlatka Mejaski-Bosnjak ( 1 Pediatric Department, General Hospital, Maribor, Slovenia ; and 2 Neuropediatric Department, Djecja Klinika, Zagreb, Croatia ) Rationale: Studies discussing neurological outcome with prematurely born children are mainly oriented towards motor development evaluation. It is now accepted that damage to brain-tissue partly occurs due to prenatal pathological occurrences. The present research was aimed at establishing whether antepartally developed periventricular damage of brain-tissue with prematures can cause development of epilepsy in the early ages. Methods: The research included 105 high-risk prematures with completed brain ultrasound during the first week. Following the medical documentation we categorised their ultrasound readings according to the measure of brain damage as well as regarding the approximate time of the occurrence of the damage. The potential prognostic factors were compared with the incidence of epilepsy. By the binary logistic regression method, the relative risk of the occurrence was established for the potential factors. Results: During the 6?8 years of following the cases up we have ascertained epileptic occurrence with 11.4% of our patients. Most frequent form of epilepsy was the West syndrome, occurring with 5.7% of all patients. Gestational age, birth-weight, presence of perinatal asphyxia and intrauterine growth retardation proved to be statistically unconnected with epileptic occurrences. Employment of tocolitic therapy was correlated with increased risk of epilepsy, but the difference still isn't statistically significant. Correlation of a subsequent epileptic occurrence and of hemorrhagic as well as ischemic white matter damage proved to be statistically significant (p < 0.05); however, when perinatal lesions were divided, based upon the ultrasound criteria, into antepartal and postnatal subgroups and when their respective correlation with the outcome was ascertained, the only statistically significant brain-damage related to epilepsy proved to be such as originating before birth. Conclusions: The presence of prenatal brain pathology is mostly important for the development of epilepsy in prematurely born children. The concluding process of brain cortex formation going on during the final trimester of pregnancy is likely to be opening possibility of secondary cortical brain damage following the primary exposure of white matter. 1 Sara Y. Tsuchie, 1 Marilisa M. Guerreiro, 1 Eunice Chuang, 1 Carlos E. Baccin, 1 Maria A. Montenegro, and 1 Carlos A. Guerreiro ( 1 Neurology, State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: It is known that epilepsy has a severe impact in the quality of life of the patients; however, it affects the lives of all family members. The psychosocial repercussions of epilepsy are often of greater significance than the seizures themselves. Methods: This was a prospective study, conducted from January 2005 to December 2005 at the pediatric epilepsy clinic of our University Hospital. Parents were interviewed by one of the authors according to a structured questionnaire that included questions about the impact of epilepsy in the life of the patients and their family, especially their siblings. Results: One hundred and twenty-seven children, siblings of 78 patients with epilepsy were evaluated. From the 127 siblings of children with epilepsy, 60 were girls and 67 were boys. Ages ranged from 5 to 18 years-old (mean = 11.7 years). After the diagnosis of epilepsy the siblings had only negative feelings toward the disease, mostly sadness and fear. Conclusions: Our data showed that the impact of epilepsy in the lives of siblings of children with epilepsy is much more severe than previously suspected. (Supported by: Eunice Chuang and Sara Y. Tsuchie are medical students and received a scholarship from CNPq.) 1 Eunice Chuang, 1 Marilisa M. Guerreiro, 1 Sara Y. Tsuchie, 1 Angelica Santucci, and 1 Maria A. Montenegro ( 1 Neurology, State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Although overtreatment with antiepileptic drugs contributes to the morbidity associated with epilepsy, many children still are overtreated. The objective of this study was to evaluate if the withdrawal of at least one antiepileptic drug (AED) in children with refractory epilepsy using polytherapy enable a better seizure control. Methods: This was a prospective study. Children with refractory epilepsy using at least two AEDs were included. Once the patient, or guardian, agreed to participate in the study, one or more AED were slowly tapered off. The remaining AEDs dosages could be adjusted as needed, but a new AED could not be introduced. Results: Fifteen patients were evaluated, three girls; ages ranging from 3 to 18 (mean = 8.7 years). After at least one AED withdrawal, two (13.5%) patients became seizure free, seizures improved > 50% in 5 (33.5%) patients, did not change in 5 (33.5%), and seizure frequency became worse in 3 (20%). Adverse events improved in 12 patients (80%). Conclusions: We conclude that the withdrawal of at least one AED is a valuable option in the treatment of selected children with refractory epilepsy. (Supported by: Eunice Chuang and Sara Y. Tsuchie are medical students and received a scholarship from CNPq.) 1 Laura M.F.F. Guilhoto, 1 Denise Ballester, and 1 Alfredo E. Gilio ( 1 Pediatrics, University of Sao Paulo Hospital, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ) Rationale: Recurrence of single non-provoked epileptic seizure is generally studied in tertiary hospitals where the Universities are based. The aim of this paper is to report the evolution of first non-provoked epileptic seizure in children from the community followed in a secondary care University hospital in Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil. Methods: We performed pediatric neurological prospective and consecutive follow-up of 51 children with non-provoked single epileptic seizure, aged 17 months to 15 years (mean 8.4) referred from the Pediatric emergency sector of the University of Sao Paulo Hospital, a secondary care regionalized unit which receives patients from Butanta district in Sao Paulo city, Brazil. All have performed brain CT and EEG. The EEG was read by the same neurologist who took care of the patients in the out-patient unit. Results: There were 29 boys and 22 girls. Seizures occurred in wakefulness in 29, sleep in 18, and on arousal in 4. Only one patient had a seizure lasting more than 10 min and 5 had multiple seizures (>1/24h). Focal seizures occurred in 29, generalized in 14, and not classified in 8. Only one had had previous febrile seizures (FS); 5 had relatives (first grade) with epilepsy, and 2 with FS. Mild mental retardation was present in 3. EEG was abnormal in 36, showing focal paroxysms in 20 (rolandic in 6, parietotemporal 5, occipital 3, frontal 3, and hemispheric in 2), multifocal in 1 (after a while, rolandic) and generalized in 9. Two had abnormal brain CT (arachnoid cist and non specific abnormality, not confirmed by MRI). Electroclinical analysis revealed idiopathic generalized epileptic syndrome in 8 (7 juvenile absence and 1 juvenile myoclonic epilepsy) who received VPA; CBZ was prescribed in 2 patients because of very frequent frontal discharges; 4 patients had had remote seizure and were medicated; 5 were receiving DAE since the emergency unit and the family preferred to keep it; and finally 32 remained without DAE. Eleven of these (34.4%) had seizure recurrence and AED was prescribed. The etiology was idiopathic in 40, symptomatic in 1 (frontal remote encephalic trauma) and cryptogenic in 10 (3 with mild mental retardation and 7 learning disability). The second seizure recurred in a mean time of 80 days (15 days-14 months); risk factors were male sex, focal seizures and occurrence in sleep. Conclusions: Recurrence after non-provoked single epileptic seizure in children from the community was similar to that of tertiary hospitals. This might be due to an inadequate distribution of health professionals in some peripheral areas. There is a need for specialists in these units in order to correctly perform the diagnosis of epileptic syndromes of low remission, such as juvenile absence and myoclonic epilepsies, as well as, to give the patients a better standard care, and consequently decrease the stigma of epileptic seizures in the population. 1 Barbara E. Hallinan, 1 Argirios Dinopoulos, and 1 Antonius DeGrauw ( 1 Division of Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: We report a young man followed in the Neurology Clinic at the Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center (CCHMC) for partial epilepsy who developed Landau-Kleffner Syndrome at the age of 14 years. The patient was admitted to our hospital in July 2004 for observation following a seizure characterized by left hand clenching, head shaking and unresponsiveness for one minute. The patient was drowsy but at his mental status baseline following the episode. Further history revealed that the patient had had two other seizures in the 18 month period prior to admission. The patient's initial EEG revealed frequent high amplitude 2 Hz independent bitemporal spike and wave discharges with no clinical correlate. Neuroimaging was normal. The patient was discharged on valproic acid with close follow-up planned. Six months later, the family reported a steady decline in school performance and behavior. The EEG showed electrographic seizures, generalized in onset, with a L > R bitemporal predominance. Lamotrigine was added. Nine months after initial admission, specific deficits in receptive and expressive language were noted. An overnight EEG revealed abnormal activity originating in the left temporal region during wakefulness. Continuous spike-wave activity during stage III sleep was noted consistent with electrical status epilepticus of slow wave sleep. Valium was added to the patient's regimen. Sixteen days later, the EEG normalized with clinical improvement in language function. Valium was tapered and a subsequent 24 hour EEG was normal. Two years after the initial diagnosis of epilepsy, the patient remains seizure-free on valproic acid and lamotrigine with some persistence of slow expressive speech. To our knowledge, this is the first case of Landau-Kleffner Syndrome in a teenager. 1 Lorie D. Hamiwka, 1 Neetu K. Singh, 1 Jodie Niosi, and 1 Elaine C. Wirrell ( 1 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, Alberta Children's Hospital/University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Although the diagnosis of seizures are common in pediatric neurology practice, first presentation is a particularly frightening event for the child and their family members. Accurate differentiation of a seizure from a non-epileptic event, such as convulsive syncope and breath holding is important, as prognosis, life style modifications and social stigma differ between these diagnoses. The goals of this study is to determine (a) the range of diagnoses presenting to a first seizure clinic, and (b) the prevalence of previous seizures in children presenting to a first seizure clinic. Methods: 127 children were seen in a tertiary care First Seizure Clinic. Inclusion criteria were age 1 mo?17 yrs with an unprovoked event suggestive of seizure. Data collected included referring physician specialty, child's age, gender, developmental status and clinical diagnosis of epileptologist (non-epileptic vs epileptic). For those with epileptic events, seizure type, syndrome (if identifiable), presumed etiology (idiopathic, cryptogenic, symptomatic), presence of prior afebrile and febrile seizures, provoking factors, family history, pre/perinatal complications and EEG results were recorded. Results: The diagnosis was epileptic in 94 (74%), non-epileptic in 31 (24%) and unclassifiable in 2 (2%). Pediatricians were more likely to refer true epileptic events (92%) than ED physicians (76%) or Family Physicians (65%). Mean age at presentation was 8 years. Fifteen percent of children were developmentally delayed and neurological examination was abnormal in 11%. For those diagnosed with epileptic events, 32 presented with generalized while 62 presented with partial onset seizures. An epilepsy syndrome was identifiable in 15 cases. Thirty eight percent experienced a prior probable seizure which was recognized by the referring physician in only one case. An EEG was done in all children with seizures and was abnormal in 41%. Conclusions: Diagnostic inaccuracy is common in first seizure. One quarter of children were incorrectly diagnosed as having a seizure while the diagnosis of epilepsy was missed in over 1/3 of children. First seizure clinics conducted by epilepsy specialists is important in the diagnosis, treatment and counseling in this group of children. 1 Allen Hauser, 1 Cigdem I. Akman, 1 Lawrence J. Hirsch, 1 Nathalie Jette, and 1 Ronald Emerson ( 1 Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University, College of Physician  30?60 min in 5; >60 min in 1; repetitive clusters of seizures in 10 and missing in 3. First AED administered at the time of diagnosis included lorazepam (LRZ) in 14 (58%), diazepam (DZP) in 5 (20.8%) and phenytoin (PHT) in 3 (12.5%). Twenty-three children received a 2nd AED: LRZ in 12 (52%), DZP in 2 (8.6%), PHT in 4 (17.3%), and phenobarbital (PB) in 3 (13%). A third AED was administered to 18: PHT 9 (50%), DZP in 6 (33%) and PB in 3 (16.6%). A Fourth AED was used in 12 (50%), a 5th AED in 4(16.6%). All patients ultimately received continuous infusion of midazolam (MDZ) 23/24 or pentobarbital (PTB) 9/24. MDZ was effective in 15, maximum dose 0.06?1.2 mg/kg/hr and average duration of 4.4 days. PTB was effective in 6, maximum dose was 3?15 mg/kg/h with average duration of 18 days. RSE was controlled only with ACTH in 1 and high dose PB in 1 after failing MDZ and PTB infusion. In 20 patients, EEG was obtained within 24 hrs. Burst suppression was noted in 11 (45%) with MDZ or PTB infusion. Non-convulsive seizures were seen in 7 RSE cases (29%) during the course of treatment. RSE was controlled in all but one patient, 14 responded in < 2 days, 6 in 2?4d, 3 in >15d. Seizures recurred in 7 cases within 1 week of discontinuation of infusion. At discharge, mild neurological deficit was seen in 12, and severe disability in 9. Thirteen patients were released home, 5 to rehabilitation, 3 to the local hospital, and 2 expired during the course of RSE. Conclusions: This study demonstrates that etiology, recurrence of seizures and mortality rate are different in children with RSE compared to adults with RSE. CNS infection was the most common single cause, and mortality was lower than in adults. Further studies are needed to identify risk factors and optimal treatment for RSE in children. 1 Patel Hema, 1,2 Dunn W. David, 2 Scott L. Eric, and 1 Garg P. Bhuwan ( 1 Section of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Neurology, Indiana University Medical Center, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 Section of Child Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Indiana University, Medical Center, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Limited information is available on phenomenology of childhood non-epileptic seizures (NES) by developmental stages. We have studied the clinical characteristics of non-epileptic seizures (NES) in children to determine if the clinical manifestations are different in children younger than 13 years age as compared to the older children. Methods: Retrospective review of medical records and video-EEGs of all patients with NES confirmed on video-EEG monitoring at Indiana University from April 2002 to December 2005. Results: 1,967 patients were monitored in the video-EEG unit during this period. 68 patients (3.5%) had a clinical diagnosis of NES. We present data on 59/68 patients who had their habitual event recorded during the video-EEG monitoring; 9 patients did not have their habitual event during the Video-EEG study. Mean age at the time of the video-EEG diagnosis was 13.3 years (range 5years 6 months to 19 years 6 months). Mean duration of symptoms prior to the diagnosis of NES was 6.8 months (range 3days to 3 years). In our study 37 of the 59 patients (62%) were females. 22 patients were less than 13 years of age (group A) and 37 were 13 years and older (group B). In group A male to female ratio was equal (11 patient each) while in group B there were more females (26 females and 11 males). Interpersonal conflicts, school related stress and family discord were the most frequent stressors in both groups. Sexual abuse was the least frequent. Cognitive dysfunction was present in 15/22 (68%) in group A and 7/37 (19%) in group B. 2/22 (9%) in group A had depression as compared to 13/37 (35%) in group B who were depressed. 15/22 (68%) in group A had epilepsy (partial epilepsy in 80%) in contrast to 11/37 (29%) in group B (partial in 45%). Prominent motor activity was more likely with NES in group B (32/37, 86%). Conclusions: We found that there were more females with NES in the older than 13 yrs age group while this gender difference was not seen in the younger children. In addition the clinical characteristics of NES are different in younger children as compared to older children. Distinct risk factors for the younger age group included cognitive dysfunction and diagnosis of epilepsy, whereas for the older children, depression and prominent motor activity were associated with NES. These findings have implications for the identification of non-epileptic seizures in children and their management in this age group. 1 Angel W. Hernandez, 1 David Donahue, 1 Saleem I. Malik, and 1 C. Thomas Black ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Cook Children's Medical Center, Fort Worth, TX ) Rationale: Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) therapy is the first device-based treatment option for both epilepsy and depression. On the basis of pre-clinical trials, the manufacturer of the VNS Therapy System (Cyberonics, Inc; Houston, TX) recommends that stimulation be started 2 weeks after the device is implanted to allow for surgical recovery time. We intend to show that stimulation activation in the operating room immediately after implantation is safe and well tolerated in children and adolescents regardless of output current, pulse width, and frequency. Methods: A retrospective chart analysis was performed on 104 patients aged 8 months to 20 years (median age 7.9 years) with pharmacoresistant epilepsy and implanted with the VNS therapy device between 2001 and mid-2005. All devices were activated intraoperatively. Forty-nine devices were activated using the following stimulation parameters: output current of 0.25 mA, pulse width of 500 ?sec, and frequency of 30 Hz. Fifty-five devices were activated using the following parameters: output current of 0.25 mA, pulse width of 250 ?sec, and frequency of 20 Hz. All devices were set to a duty cycle of 5 minutes Off and 30 seconds On. Results: All patients tolerated intraoperative VNS activation. Adverse changes in blood pressure, pulse rate, or electrocardiogram (EKG) did not occur at the time of activation or thereafter. No unexpected side effects were reported acutely. Conclusions: Intraoperative activation of the VNS therapy device appears to be safe and well tolerated in children and adolescents regardless of output current, pulse width, and frequency. 1 Eila A. Herrgard, and 2 Laila Luoma ( 1 Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Neurology, Kuopio University and University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland ; and 2 Department of Psychiatry, Kellokoski Hospital, Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, Finland ) Rationale: Only few pre-, peri- and neonatal risk factors are recognized for febrile seizure. In some studies febrile seizures are shown to be associated with preterm birth, pre-eclampsia, respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), hyperbilirubinemia, long neonatal intensive care, sepsis and low birth weight. The aim of our study was to evaluate risk factors for febrile seizures in the study group of children including both preterm and term children. Methods: Pre-, peri- and neonatal data of 60 prospectively followed children born at or before 32 weeks of gestation, and of 60 matched term controls from the two year birth cohort were available from earlier phases of the study. Seizure data were obtained from questionnaires completed by parents, and from hospital records and parent interviews. Risk factor analysis was done by logistic regression. Results: Febrile seizures were found in 8 /60 (13%) children born at ≤ 32 weeks of gestation and in 3/60 (5%) children born at term. Fourteen of 120 children (12%) were born to pre-eclamptic mothers, 30/120 children (25%) were small for gestational age (SGA), 48 children (40%) had a neonatal intensive care longer than 28 days; neonatal sepsis was found in 4/120 (3%), respiratory or other infections during neonatal period in 26/120 (22%) and RDS in 30/120 children (25%). Risk for febrile seizures was 2.9 (CI 0.74?11.619) in the children born preterm compared to the term children. Risk for febrile seizures in offsprings of mothers with pre-eclampsia was low (OR 0.7, CI 0.09?6.25). Respectively, risk for febrile seizures in SGA children was low (OR 1.1, CI 0.28?4.60). Risk for febrile seizures in RDS children (OR 2.8, CI 0.79?9.95) and in children who had long neonatal intensive care (OR 2.9, CI 0.80?10.52) was parralel. Sepsis and other infections during neonatal period and later febrile seizures were not encountered in the same children. Conclusions: Rate of febrile seizures was increased in children born preterm. Pre-eclampsia, intrauterine growth retardation, sepsis or other neonatal infections were not risk factors for febrile seizures. However, the size of the study group sets its own limitations in evaluations of risks. 1 Dale C. Hesdorffer, 1 Veronica J. Hinton, 2 Christine O'Dell, 2 David M. Masur, 3 Douglas Nordli, 4 Jack Pellock, 4 Anthony Marmarou, 5 Darrell V. Lewis, 6 L.M. Frank, 2 Shlomo Shinnar, and the FEBSTAT Study Team ( 1 GH Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 2 Department of Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; 3 Department of Neurology, Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL ; 4 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 5 Department of Neurosurgery, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 6 Department of Pediatrics, Duke University Medical Center, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 7 Department of Neurology, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, VA ) Rationale: Febrile status epilepticus (FSE) may be associated with the development of mesial temporal sclerosis and intractable temporal lobe epilepsy. If ongoing prospective studies support this, then prevention of FSE becomes a central concern. We, therefore, undertook an analysis to identify risk factors for FSE. Methods: This analysis combines data from two prospective studies, employing almost identical protocols and questionnaires: children with incident FSE (n = 73) from the FEBSTAT study; and children with incident simple (n = 105) and complex (n = 46) febrile seizures (FS) that were not FSE from the Columbia University Febrile Seizure study. At identification, parents were questioned about potential FS antecedents and an MRI was performed within 72 hours. Within one month of the FS, children received a neurological examination and developmental testing. Logistic regression was used to evaluate potential FSE risk factors, comparing FSE to simple FS and complex FS (not FSE) to simple FS. Results: Compared to children with simple FS, children with febrile SE were less likely to be 18 months and older (OR = 0.5; 95% CI = 0.2?0.8) and less likely to have fevers of 104.0 or more (OR = 0.2; 95% CI = 0.1?0.5). Similar non-significant results were seen for other complex FS vs. simple FS. Smoking during pregnancy was strongly associated with FSE compared to simple FS (OR = 3.6, 95% CI = 1.4?9.4) as was drinking during pregnancy (OR = 9.6, 95% CI = 1.1?82.3). Smoking was also associated with a 2.1-fold non-significant increased risk complex FS compared to simple FS. No associations were observed for family history of febrile seizure, neurological abnormality, or day care attendance. Conclusions: Risk factors appear to be different for both FSE and other complex FS compared to simple FS. The reason for the robust association between smoking during pregnancy and FSE deserves further study. (Supported by R01 HD 36867 and R01 NS043209.) 1,2 Sudha V. Kilaru, 1 Anuradha Venkatasubramanian, and 1 Dennis J. Dlugos ( 1 Neurology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: Clinical features of an epileptic seizure (seizure semiology) can provide important information regarding localization of the ictal onset zone. Understanding seizure semiology, and its concordance with EEG and imaging data, is particularly important in the evaluation of epilepsy surgery patients. The inter-rater reliability (IRR) of pediatric seizure semiology, with an emphasis on the order of appearance of clinical signs, has not been extensively studied. As part of a continuous quality improvement initiative in an epilepsy monitoring unit, we designed a form to record and code components of seizure semiology, and tested its usability and IRR. Methods: Based on expert opinion and a literature review of lateralizing signs in adults and children, a form was constructed listing lateralizing and nonlateralizing signs commonly seen in seizures. Four major categories?eye signs, face signs, trunk/limb signs, and other signs?were delineated. Within these 4 categories, specific elements were described and lateralized. Two investigators independently reviewed and coded the video records of 33 seizures from subjects aged 2 to 18 years. The primary outcome of interest was percent agreement when identifying the first three clinical signs, including lateralization when appropriate. Across all seizures, 95 clinical signs were assessed. Percent agreement corrected for chance agreement (Kappa statistic) was explored, but correction was minimal (less than 1%) due to the large number of possible choices. Results: Agreement on behavioral state prior to the seizure occurred in 85% of records. Agreement on the presence of clinical signs occurred in 73/95 (77%) of clinical signs assessed. Lateralizing features were found in 65/95 (68%) of clinical signs assessed. In records with such features, agreement on lateralization occurred in 77% of records. Eighteen percent of lateralization disagreements (n = 2) were due to rater errors. The other disagreements were disputes of whether signs were unilateral versus bilateral (n = 7), or present or absent (n = 2). All but two disagreements on lateralization were resolved in a consensus conference. We observed that 49% of initial signs had lateralizing features, while 76% of second signs were lateralizing, and 83% of third signs were lateralizing. Conclusions: We designed a practical, easy-to-use form for coding the semiological components of individual seizures recorded on video. IRR was good-to-excellent, and most lateralization disagreements were resolved on consensus conference. The second or third signs during a seizure were more often lateralizing than the first. Based on additional experience, this form will be optimized for greater ease-of-use and reliability. Future work could correlate the order of appearance of lateralizing signs with EEG data, imaging data and outcome in children being evaluated for epilepsy surgery. 1 Hoon-Chul Kang, 2 Baik-Lin Eun, 2 Chang Wu Lee, 2 Han Ku Moon, 2 Joon-Sik Kim, 2 Dong Wook Kim, 2 Joon Soo Lee, 2 Kyu Young Chae, 2 Byung Ho Cha, 2 Eun Sook Suh, 2 Jung Chae Park, 2 Kyunghwa Lim, 2 Eun Hye Ha, and 3 Heung Dong Kim ( 1 Pediatrics, Epilepsy Center, Inje University College of Medicine, Sanggye Paik Hospital, Seoul, Korea ; 2 Korean Pediatric Topiramate Study Group, Korea ; and 3 Pediatrics, Pediatric Epilepsy Clinics, Severance Children's Hospital, Brain Research Institute, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: This study compares the cognitive and behavioral effects of topiramate with those of carbamazepine using efficacious doses of each drug when used as monotherapy in children with benign rolandic epilepsy. Methods: The study is a multicenter, randomized, observer-blinded, parallel-group clinical trial with topiramate or carbamazepine given as first-line therapy. Topiramate is introduced at 25 mg per day. The target dosages are 50 mg per day in 30 kg > weighted patients and 75 mg or 100 mg per day in 30 kg < weight patients in 4 weeks. Carbamazepine is started at 10 mg/kg per day and the target dosage is 20 mg/kg per day in 4 weeks. The primary outcome measure is the difference between the treatments (topiramate versus carbamazepine) in change of the cognitive and behavioral function from baseline to end point (after 28 weeks of treatment), using a 95% confidence interval approach. Results: For the 22 baseline-to-end point cognitive and the 13 baseline-to-end point behavioral comparisons, one test measuring Verbal Intelligence Quotient yields a statistically significant difference between the treatments (p = 0.019), showing worsening for topiramate and improvement of scores for carbamazepine and one additional test also shows a statistically significant difference, again for a test measuring arithematics (p = 0.043), showing a larger change in the negative direction for topiramate. None of the behavioral tests shows statistically significant differences between the treatments. However, integrated functions, verbal comprehension factor including information, similarities, vocabulary and comprehension as well as attention and concentration including arithmetics, digital span and coding do not show statistically significant differences between the treatments, although those scores are in the negative direction for topiramate. Conclusions: Although the pattern of changes in the negative direction seems consistent with clinical information, the differences found between the treatments are small. An important finding of our study is that the differences between two treatments are compensated in the integrated functions. (Supported by JANSSEN, KOREA LIMITED, a Johnson  and 2 Department of Pediatrics, Epilepsy Center, Inje University College of Medicine, Sanggyepaik Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: The objectives of this study were to investigate the proportion of abnormal endoscopic lesions in intractable epilepsy children prior to KD and to reveal their relationship to patient's dietary tolerability and to know how to increase tolerability of KD in patients with abnormal endoscopic lesions. Methods: Thirty-five patients were enrolled in this study at the Epilepsy Center, Sanggye Paik Hospital, Inje University College of Medicine, from March 2002 to August 2003. Informed consents were obtained from their parents of all the patients. Gastrofiberscopy were done to all patients prior to initiation of KD. Patients with abnormal endoscopic lesions were treated with H2 receptor blocker, proton pump inhibitor, and/or prokinetics for initial 4 weeks of the KD. We observed the incidence of G-I disturbance symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, unusual irritability or cramping abdominal pain, and diet refusal for over a day in patients with abnormal endoscopic findings, as compared with the patients without such G-I lesions. We also observed the proportion of patients who showed improvement on tolerability after the active G-I medications. Results: Of the 35 patients in this study, 18 were boys and 17 were girls. The mean (±SD) age of the patients at the beginning of the diet was 62.9 (±42.5) months. Various kinds of epilepsies and epileptic syndromes were subjected for this study including infantile spasm and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Polypharmacy with more than 4 AEDs were used in 14 patients. Sixteen patients were treated with prednisolone for more than 1 month. Twenty patients (57%) revealed abnormal endoscopic lesions, showing 10 cases of erosive gastritis, 4 duodenitis, 3 hemorrhagic gastritis, 2 esophagitis, and 1 duodenal ulcer. The incidences of abnormal endoscopic lesions were higher by 78% (11/14) in polypharmacy group, and 81% (13/16) in steroid consumers. Symptoms from G-I disturbance such as nausea, vomiting, unusual irritability or cramping abdominal pain, and diet refusal for over a day, were complicated in 17 cases (85.0%) in patients with positive endoscopic lesions, and in 5 case (33.3%) in patients without endoscopic lesions. After the active management with G-I medications, G-I disturbing symptoms were subsided in most cases, except a patients who were discontinued KD from the intolerability. Conclusions: G-I disturbing symptoms were more frequently associated in patients with positive abnormal endoscopic lesions. Active management with G-I medications could increase tolerability of KD in patients treated with multiple AEDs and steroids. 1 Emily T. Klatte, 1,2 Juliann M. Paolicchi, 1 Sheri L. Hart, and 2,3 Debbie Terry ( 1 Neurology, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; 2 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH ; and 3 Nursing, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Treatment of Benign Rolandic Epilepsy (BRE), which is 15% of childhood epilepsy, is not standardized, and typically, balances benefit and medication toxicity. Data has suggested that BRE patients can suffer neuropsychiatric deficits. This study examined treatment trends, cognitive/behavioral issues, and factors predictive of neuropsychiatric problems. Methods: From 9/04?4/06, 55 patients met BRE clinical and electrographic criteria at our institution. Medical charts were reviewed for demographics and cognitive and behavioral issues. Statistical analysis included Chi Square and Somers'd. Results: Mean patient age was 6 years (2?13), 69% male. Neuroimaging was performed in 89% of subjects; 12 (24.5%) were abnormal. The average number of ER visits per subject for seizures was 1.2 (0?5). 16 (29%) required admissions: seizures (10), status (2), or long term monitoring (6). EEG findings demonstrated that 25.5% had left, 18% right, and 55% bilateral discharges. 10 (18%) had additional EEG findings, including occipital and generalized discharges. 17(30%) were not treated with AEDs. Subjects averaged 3.6 seizures (1?15) prior to initiation of treatment. Of the 38 treated, the majority were on oxcarbamazepine (14) or carbamazepine (17). 15 subjects required a change in AEDs due to seizures or side effects, and 2 were treated with 2 AEDs. Seizure frequency varied from 1 to >20 seizures; 41% had >10 seizures. 33(60%) reported comorbidities (may be more than 1 reported): 11(20%) headaches, 15(27.3%) language difficulties, 22(40%) trouble in school, 26(43.6%) behavioral problems, 18(32.7%) attention problems, 11(20%) ADHD, and 7(12.8%) other psychiatric diagnosis. Problems in school and bilateral discharges on EEG were statistically significant (p < 0.025), but the side of discharge was not. No association existed between discharge location and language, behavior, attention, or ADHD. Of the 55 subjects, 11 (20%) had low seizure frequency (defined as 1?2 seizures), 22 (40%) medium (3?9), and 22 (40%) high (≤10). There was a significant association of higher seizure frequency and reported trouble in school (p < 0.002), ADHD (p < 0.015), attentional problems (p < 0.025), and language problems (p < 0.028). There was no association between seizure frequency and behavior or discharge location. Conclusions: BRE is less ?benign? than historically considered. Comorbidities are present in 60% of patients, the most common are behavioral problems, trouble in school, and attention impairments. The presence of bilateral EEG discharges is a significant risk factor for trouble in school. Children with high seizure frequency have an increased risk of having trouble in school, attention problems, ADHD, and language problems. Children with BRE, whether AEDs are indicated or not, should be screened for possible cognitive, behavioral, and learning disabilities. 1 Elisabeth Korn-Merker, and 1 Heilwig Fischbach ( 1 Klinik Kidron, Epilepsy Center Bethel, EvKB, Bielefeld, NRW, Germany ) Rationale: Psychogenic seizures (PS) often are underdiagnosed?especially in epileptic patients.We report about 31 adolescents referred to our epilepsy center for pharmacoresistant epilepsy. We present clinical features, EEG findings, precipitants for PS, comorbidities and treatment results. Methods: 25 girls and 6 boys (aged from 12 to 23 years) with PS were identified from our inpatient records in 2003?2005. Admission diagnosis was difficult to treat epilepsy and multiple pharmacoresitance. In nearly all of them PS were not suspected. All patients had routinely EEG with sleep, hyperventilation and photostimulation. 2/3 had Video-EEG too, MRI only those with focal EEG findings. Seizures and clinical events were observed and documented (video too) by nurses and allied staff, followed by classification as epileptic or nonepileptic. Precipitating neurologic comorbidities and psychiatric diagnosis were analysed as well as the short term impact of psychotherapeutic measures. Results: 17 patients had an active epilepsy too (9 focal, 7 generalized, 1 with focal and generalized signs). 18 patients were mentally handycapped, 9 had a positive familiy history of epilepsy. Clinically PS were clearly different from epileptic seizures and frequently dramatic. Common precipitating factors were school failure, anxiety disorder, sexual abuse and intrafamilial conflicts. A clinical setting structured by a multiprofessional team helped patients to identfy stressors, gain insight into their emotional reactions and develop coping skills (supportive milieu therapy). All patients had a significant reduction of PS. 2 were ?seizure free? on discharge and 9 after 22 months, all of them continouing psychotherapy post discharge for 6 months minimum. Conclusions: Establishing a correct diagnosis is a vital step for treating PS in adolescents. Identification of stressors and early multidisciplinary stabilization yields good long term results for control of PS. Coaching the whole familiy to increase motivation for psychotherapy after discharge ameliorates the rate of seizure freedom. 1 Florise A. Lambrechsten, and 2 Jeffrey R. Buchhalter ( 1 Rijksuniversiteit Groningen  and 2 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: Relatively little data exists regarding refractory status epilepticus (RSE) in children. We aimed to determine: (i) the frequency of RSE in children, (ii) factors associated with the development of RSE, and (iii) predictors of outcome in children with RSE. Methods: Patients less than 18-years-old, hospitalized at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 1994?2004, were included. Medical records with an ICD-9 diagnostic code of status epilepticus (SE) (345.3 and 345.2), epilepsy partialis continua (345.7), petit mal status (345.2), or grand mal status (345.3) were reviewed. In addition we reviewed EEG lab admission logs for diagnoses of SE. The study was IRB approved. Univariate analysis and Cox's-proportional hazards models were used for statistical analysis. Results: We identified 178 children with possible SE, 24 of which were excluded because they did not meet our inclusion criteria or had incomplete data. Of the remaining 154 children with SE, 60 (39.0%) had RSE and 94 (61%) had non-RSE. In the RSE group, 13 children (21.7%) had a family history of seizures compared to 3 children (3.2%) in the non-RSE group (p < 0.001). A previous diagnosis of epilepsy was present in 44 children (73.3%) with RSE and in 67 children (71.2%) with non-RSE. Children with RSE and a diagnosis of epilepsy used a significantly higher number of anti-epileptic drugs (AED's) prior to the prolonged seizure episode than children with non-RSE (5 vs. 3 AED's; P < 0.001) and had a significantly higher seizure frequency score (8.53 vs 6.34; P < 0.001). Clinical factors associated with the development of RSE were non-convulsive SE and focal motor seizures at onset. Etiologies did not differ significantly between RSE and non-RSE. Mean duration of follow-up was 3.89 years (range 0.8?12.2 years). Ten children (6.5%) died during hospitalization and 9 (5.8%) during follow-up. Overall mortality was significantly higher in the RSE group (20%) than in the non-RSE group (7.4%; p = 0.021). Survivors with RSE had a higher risk for developing new neurological deficits (HR 2.45; 95% CI 1.5?3.9; P < 0.001). This risk was lower if age at admission was >10 years compared to < 4 years (HR 0.57; 95% CI 0.3?1.0; P= 0.05). At 4 years after dismissal, 30% of children with RSE developed epilepsy compared to 10% of children with non-RSE. This was associated with an acute symptomatic etiology (HR 2.43, 95% CI 1.2?5.0, P 0.02). Conclusions: Factors associated with RSE were identified: positive family history of seizures and in cases of diagnosed epilepsy, higher seizure frequency and number of previously used AED's. Clinical factors associated with RSE were non-convulsive SE and focal motor seizures at onset. Further studies are needed to determine if more aggressive treatment strategies in children with SE at risk for developing RSE can improve outcome, particularly in those with younger age at admission and acute symptomatic etiology. (Supported by Marco Polo Fund, Netherlands.) 1 Pramote Laoprasert, 2 Michael Handler, 1 Julie Parsons, and 1 Kevin Staley ( 1 Pediatrics and Neurology, The Children's Hospital, University of Colorado Health Science Center, Denver, CO ; and 2 Pediatrics and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital, University of Colorado Health Science Center, Denver, CO ) Rationale: Focal transmantle dysplasia (FTD) is a specific malformation of cortical development (MCD) with abnormality extending from the wall of lateral ventricle to the cortical surface. FTD varies from a linear band to an entirely malformed lobe and probably associated with maldifferentiation of the stem cells generated in the germinal zone. FTD was first described in 1997 and seen in 4% of MCDs in childhood. FTD usually occurs as an isolated finding although has rarely been reported in neurofibromatosis type 1 and tuberous sclerosis complex. There has been no report of FTD caused by prenatal vascular insult (PVI). Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the clinical, EEG, and neuroimages of 3 patients with FTD caused by PVI, 2 from intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) and 1 from cerebral ischemia. 1 patient underwent epilepsy surgery. Results: Patient 1 is a 6-year-old-left-handed-twin B girl who was born at 28 weeks GA with IVH grade 4 and required ventilator supports for 3 months. She had multiple types of seizures including myoclonic, secondarily generalized tonic-clonic, absence, and asymmetric tonic seizures. Four MRI scans were interpreted as ischemic injury in the left frontal region. FTD was diagnosed during presurgical evaluation. EEG showed epileptic focus in the left frontal and frontal vertex regions. Ictal SPECT showed left mesial frontal hyperperfusion. Resection of FTD and epileptogenic zone after subdural EEG implantation led to seizure free. Pathology revealed focal cortical dysplasia. Patient 2 is a 23-month-old-left handed girl who was born at 24 weeks GA. She had fetal distress due to abruption placenta with subsequent global developmental delay (GDD) and one seizure described as right-sided clonic jerks at age 23 months. MRI was interpreted as periventricular nodular heterotopias but apparently it was FTD in the left frontal region. Her seizure has been well controlled with oxcarbazepine. Patient 3 is a 14-year-old-right-handed girl who was born at 36 weeks GA to a mother who had severe hyperemesis requiring total parenteral nutrition at 15 weeks GA. The patient had GDD, ADHD, severe left hemiparesis, and focal epilepsy. MRI showed extensive polymicrogyria in the right fronto-centro-temporal and FTD in the right frontal region. She was found having electrical status epilepticus during slow sleep (ESES). Her cognition improves dramatically with diazepam. Conclusions: Our report suggests that PVI, either ischemia or hemorrhage, can cause FTD. FTD is probably underrecognizable as it is a relatively new type of MCD and can have varieties of clinical courses. This report may help neurologists to expand the scope and better understand the pathophysiology of FTD and to be more aware of this condition. Adequate treatment of PVI may prevent the development of FTD. 1 Jeehun Lee, 2 Dae Won Seo, 2 Seung Bong Hong, 3 Seung Chul Hong, 4 Yeon Lim Suh, and 1 Munhyang Lee ( 1 Pediatrics, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University, School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ; 2 Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University, School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ; 3 Neurosurgery, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University, School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ; and 4 Pathology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University, School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNTs) are often associated with medically intractable epilepsy in childhood, but also with favorable outcome after epilepsy surgery. Aim of this study is to delineate the clinical characteristics of DNTs and to find an adequate method of epilepsy surgery of DNTs in childhood. Methods: A retrospective analysis was done on the clinical, pathologic, and radiological data of 19 patients, who were presented with seizure and had been found to have DNTs after surgery, between Jan 1996 and April 2005. Epilepsy surgery was performed using intraoperative electrocorticography or subdural electrodes in all patients except one. Results: Mean follow-up duration after surgery was 28 months. Of the 19 patients (mean age at surgery 12 year 6 months), All patients showed a favorable outcome (class I?18, class II?1). Temporal lobe was the most frequent site of tumor involvement (15 cases). All the lesions showing active epileptogenicity were resected with the tumor. There was associated cortical dysplasia (CD) on pathology of the resected lesion besides tumor in 12 cases. Conclusions: We found that the DNT was frequently associated with CD and the active epileptogenic lesions were associated with CD. So the precise presurgical localization of epileptic focus, perioperative brain mapping, and radical resection of the epileptogenic lesion including tumor would be the essential requirement for the favorable surgical outcome in childhood DNTs. 1 Young Mock Lee, 1 Joo Hee Seo, 2 Hoon Chul Kang, 1 Joon Soo Lee, and 1 Heung Dong Kim ( 1 Department of Pediatrics, Institute for Handicapped Children, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea ; and 2 Department of Pediatrics, Inje University College of Medicine, Sang-gye Paik Hospital, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: This study aimed to characterize clinical and laboratory features in children with epilepsy diagnosed as mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme complexes (MRC) defects and to provide newly postulated etiology in various epileptic condition. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed clinical and laboratory features of 21 patients with epilepsy who showed defects in MRC activity, confirmed by biochemical assay from spectrophotometry in muscle tissue. Results: 1) Mean age was 5.63 ± 3.49 years and sex ratio was 1:1.1. 2) Fourteen (66.7%) were MRC I deficiency, 5 (23.8%) of VI deficiency, 1 (4.8%) of II deficiency, and 1 case of combined deficiency of I and IV. 3) Four cases (19.0%) were classified as Leigh syndrome, 1 case (4.8%) each as MELAS and Alpers disease, but 15 cases (71.4%) were not clinically categorized for specific disease criteria. 4) Epileptic diagnoses included generalized seizure disorders in 7 cases (33.3%), partial seizure disorders in 4 cases (19.0%), Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in 6 cases (28.6%) and infantile spasm in 4 cases (19.0%). 5) Mean seizure onset age was 2.34 ± 2.20 years. 6) Brain MRI showed diffuse cortical atrophy in 15 (71.4%), basal ganglia signal changes in 8 (38.1%) and thalamus sinal changes in 6 cases (28.6%). 7) Positive rate for laboratory studies were: 90.5% in lactic acidosis, 72.2% in urine organic acid assay, 29.4% in serum amino acid assay, and 53.3% in MR spectroscopy. 8) Mitochondrial cocktail with coenzyme Q10 and multi-vitamin therapy showed clinical improvements in 71.4% of patients. Conclusions: MRC defect can be the important cause of epilepsy. Treatments with coenzyme and multi-vitamine have shown considerable benefits. 1 Paul M. Levisohn, 2 Samuel M. Shirk, 3 Ken R. Winston, and 1 Lisa M. Gustas ( 1 Pediatrics and Neurology, University of Colorado Health Science Center, Denver, CO ; 2 Neurology and Neurodiagnostics, The Children's Hospital, Denver, CO ; and 3 Neurosurgery, University of Colorado Health Science Center, Denver, CO ) Rationale: Intermittent stimulation of the left vagus nerve is an approved adjunctive therapy for medically intractable partial onset epilepsy in children 12 years and older. Management of children less than 12 years of age with intractable epilepsy, particularly those with epileptic encephalopathies remains challenging despite the availability of new drugs. This study reports outcomes on 100 patients, aged 2?22 at implantation, including 56 ? < 12? between 1/98 and 4/06. Methods: Data were gathered using retrospective chart review. Variables included seizure frequency at the surgical visit, seizure frequency at 12 month follow-up, seizure frequency at 24 month follow-up, and seizure frequency at last visit. Frequencies were recorded as number per week, and were extrapolated from records in the patient's chart. We documented prior number of medications and post number of medications. Post operative complications were noted. Results: The average age at implantation was 10.6 years (SD = 4.9). The average reduction of seizures was 45% (SD = 40); percent reduction was defined as 100*(1- number of post seizures/number of prior seizures). 14 patients were lost to follow-up. 33 patients had incomplete data and were excluded from this calculation. 15 patients had >89% seizure reduction; 3 became seizure-free with VNS, 1 post resection. We also devised a qualitative improvement rating scale: significant improvement (70% reduction or greater), moderate improvement (1?69% reduction), no improvement (0%). 26/77 had significant, 18/77 had moderate, and 33/77 had no improvement (9 had incomplete data). An analysis of medication reduction showed no decrease. We saw no difference between the < 12 age group and the >12 group. Percent reduction showed no difference (42%,SD = 41: 46%, SD = 39). In the < 12, 13/41 had significant, 10/41 had moderate, 18/41 had no improvement. In the >12, 13/36 had significant, 8/36 had moderate, 15/36 had no improvement. 5 ?>12? and 9 ? < 12? were lost to follow-up. 28 ? < 12? were treated with the ketogenic diet, compared to 14 ?>12?. 6 patients had their VNS removed (3 due to infection), 6 stimulators were replaced. 5 patients had post-implant callosotomies (all < 12 group). 2 patients died, one from failure to thrive, one from status epilepticus. Conclusions: VNS has efficacy in children under age 12 years with generalized epilepsies. Although clearly not a cure or a sole therapy for most patients, our data support the position that VNS is a safe and effective adjunctive therapy for pharmacoresistant epilepsy in children < 12 years of age. We observed no difference in the efficacy and outcomes of children < 12 treated with VNS when compared to the >12 group. 1,2 Yeou-mei Christiana Liu, 2 Amy Haw, 2 Kent Campbell, 1,2 Jeff Kobayashi, 1 Elizabeth J. Donner, 2 Olivia Lugue, 2 Susan Cohen, and 1 Rosalind Curtis ( 1 Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ; and 2 Child Development Program, Bloorview Kids Rehab, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: The objective of this study is to assess the long term growth and lipid status of children treated with the classic and medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) ketogenic diets. There are 5 articles that reported ketogenic diet patients' growth status and only one with short term prospective growth status, but there is no long-term prospective study that examines the children's growth and lipid status. Methods: A prospective, nonrandomized study design was used to measure growth and lipid status of children, age 1 to 16 years (mean = 5.9 ± 3.7), with intractable epilepsy before and after 12 months treatment with the classic or MCT ketogenic diet. None of the children had been on earlier dietary regimens. Forty-eight consents were obtained between January, 2000 and May 2005. Thirty-three children were on the classic diet and fifteen children were on the MCT diet. Paired t tests were done on weight percentile, height percentile, percentage of ideal body weight (IBW), total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and triglycerides (TG). Results: Thirty-two children completed 12 months on the ketogenic diet. Percentile heights, weights and percentage of IBW at 12 months follow-up were compared to pre-diet data. In the classic diet group (n = 21), the percentile heights and weights were significantly changed from the baseline measurements (p < 0.05). Mean weight percentile was decreased by 5.2 and height percentile decreased by 10.7. There was no significant change in percentage of IBW. In MCT diet group (n = 11), the mean percentile height was significantly lower than baseline measurement (p < 0.05) with a 17 percentile reduction. The percentile weights and percentage of IBW in the MCT diet group showed no significant change. Both diets treatments resulted in height growth retardation. Only the classic diet group demonstrated weight growth retardation. For both diet groups, there was no significant increase in total cholesterol, LDL and TG at 12 months of diet when compared with their pre-diet measurements. With intensive follow-up of biochemical indexes and elevated levels corrected with polyunsaturated fat intake for both the classic and MCT diet, it appears children are able to maintain a healthy lipid level. Conclusions: Both the classic and MCT ketogenic diets result in significant height growth retardation in children at 12 months follow-up. Only the classic ketogenic diet is associated with a significant weight growth retardation. The MCT diet does not have a negative effect on weight growth. Neither diet treatment produced an increased lipid level at 12 months follow-up. Eighteen and twenty-four months data are in the preliminary analysis to be concluded in the near future. 1 Paul Maertens, 1 Renay Drinkard, and 2 Eyal Fabien ( 1 Neurology, Unversity of South Alabama, Mobile, AL ; and 2 Pediatrics, Unversity of South Alabama, Mobile, AL ) Rationale: The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of levetiracetam monotherapy in neonates with acute stroke. Methods: This is a single center open-label study of 3 neonates (less than 24 hour of age). In all cases, focal seizures were confirmed by EEG. The focal seizures were in all three children the result of an acute perinatal stroke (non hemorrhagic in 2; hemorrhagic in one). A loading dose of 50 mg/kg of levetiracetam was administered through a nasogastric tube while children were actively seizing and only benzodiazepines were given concomitantly. Seizure control and side effects were monitored while on once a day dosing. Results: No patient stopped levetiracetam due to side effect or lack of efficacy. No other anticonvulsant had to be added to the regimen to maintain seizure control. Feeding difficulties were initially seen but cleared after a few days. Levetiracetam level was still high twelve hours after the first dose (50 mcg/dL in one child). No other adverse event was observed. All three patients were left without neurological sequellae and the follow-up imaging studies in our patients with acute brain injury showed a complete resolution of their lesion. Conclusions: Levetiracetam given once a day in neonates is well tolerated. We believe that, in neonates with acute stroke, levetiracetam has neuroprotective properties explaining the complete recovery of our patients. 1 Yu-tze Ng, and 2 Rama K. Maganti ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute/St. Joseph's Hospital, Phoenix, AZ ; and 2 Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: To describe a possibly new variant of childhood idiopathic localization-related epilepsy. Methods: Seven children were reviewed in consultation who presented with similar clinical histories of distinctive, partial-onset seizures. Typically their seizures would begin as simple partial seizures involving one of their feet and/or lower limb and often progress to secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures. These patients were studied prospectively and their charts reviewed in detail. Results: All patients were cognitively and neurologically normal. Their average age of first seizure was 10.4 (range 4?13) years. There were four girls. Although six patients had a total of less than 20 seizures, one patient had had about 500 seizures. A typical history involved the patient being fully aware of sensory (burning/tingling) changes involving one foot and/or shaking of that limb before secondary generalization either immediately following or with independant generalized tonic-clonic seizures. All patients underwent brain MRI scans (five on the 3-Tesla machine) which were all normal. All patients also had at least one EEG. All were normal or had normal background. Two patients showed generalized spike wave epileptiform discharges (one with left temporal also) consistent with an idiopathic epilepsy. All patients are currently doing well. Conclusions: These seven patients appear to be have consistent histories of localization-related epilepsy beginning with simple partial seizures involving one foot/lower limb. Their normal cognition and investigations as well as two ?positive? EEGs and excellent prognoses would suggest that this may be a new, childhood idiopathic localization-related epilepsy. Patients' clinical and investigation characteristics Patient Age (1st seizure) Sex Number of seizures Brain MRI EEG 1 ?4 F 500 N (3-T) N 2 ?9 F ?10 N (3-T) N 3 11 M ??8 N (3-T) N 4 ?14* M ??3 N (3-T) Single GSW 5 13 F ?10 N LT  3-T = 3-Tesla; *Previous febrile seizure; GSW = Generalized spike wave; LT = Left temporal. 1,2 Marian Majoie, 3 Marcel Punte, 4 Willem Berfelo, and 3 Silvia Evers ( 1 Neurology, Epilepsy Centre Kempenhaeghe, Heeze, Netherlands ; 2 Neurology, Research Institute Brain and Behavior, University Maastricht, Maastricht, Netherlands ; 3 Department of HOPE, University Maastricht, Maastricht, Netherlands ; and 4 Neurosurgery, University Hospital Maastricht, Maastricht, Netherlands ) Rationale: To evaluate long-term cost-effectiveness of Vagus Nerve Stimulation (VNS) in children with refractory epilepsy. Methods: The study presents a cohort design. Patients served as their own control. Measurements are taken before (baseline) and during treatment with VNS. Nineteen children are included with refractory epilepsy; they are not eligible for resective surgery. Data are collected for a period of thirty months. A sensitivity analysis is carried out. Results: The response rate of the cost diary was 95.74%. Within the category ?healthcare costs,? the costs are significantly lower during the treatment with VNS in comparison with usual care costs. The total costs of the intervention are ?11.576 for each patient. The seizure diary response rate was 100%. The number of seizures is significantly lower and dropped to an average of 422 per month, a decrease of more than 17%. The cost-effectiveness ratio is 127. The results of this study show that the additional costs of the intervention are recuperated within 15 months. The results of the sensitivity analysis shows that the individual cost items have a marginal influence on the cost-effectiveness ratio. Conclusions: The incremental cost effectiveness is expressed in a cost effectiveness ratio. This ratio is 127 which means that any suppressed seizure will cost ?127,?when resulting from VNS. If the one time investment of ?11.576,?(the total costs of the intervention) is divided by the cost reduction (?764,?per month), the additional costs of the intervention will be recuperated within 15 months. On the long run, the costs of VNS in children with therapy resistant epilepsy are lower as compared to the costs of usual care. (Supported by Epilepsy Center Kempenhaeghe; University Hospital Maastricht; Dutch National League against Epilepsy; Cyberonics (Webster, TX).) 1 Amy D. Malphrus, 1 Rebecca J. Schultz, and 1 Angus A. Wilfong ( 1 Baylor College of Medicine Department of Neurology, Texas Childrens Hospital, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Reflex epilepsy is defined as seizures that are objectively and consistently evoked by a specific afferent stimulus or by activity of the patient. The afferent stimuli or activity may be elementary or elaborate[1]. Reflex seizures can be characterized by either focal or generalized seizures seizures. They are classified according to the precipitating stimuli[2]. The commonest form of reflex epilepsy is seizures triggered by flickering light. However, numerous other triggers have been described including visual stimuli, flickering light, patterns, thinking, praxis, reading, somatosensory, eating, music, and startle. The prevalence is unknown but felt to be rare. We describe two patients with symptomatic epilepsy with seizures induced by eating with a spoon. Methods: Through the comprehensive epilepsy clinic, two patients were identified with reflex epilespy with a stimuli being a spoon. They were an 11 year-old left-handed male with a chromosome 15 duplication and MRI findings of frontoparietal periventricular white matter lesions and a 5 year-old right-handed male with lissencephaly type I. Results: One patient had EEG/video monitoring performed and revealed a seizure from the left central region while being fed with a spoon. Conclusions: Eating epilepsy is characterized by seizures closely related to one or several actions of eating, and the triggers are specific and stereotyped for each patient. The seizures are typically focal motor seizures and almost always related to a symptomatic epilepsy. The epileptiform activity seen on EEG is typically localized to temporolimbic structures or suprasylvian regions. Generalized EEG activity is rare. Many patients have seizures activated by combinations of stimuli. Patients with suprasylvian lesions may be triggered by other oral activities induced by proprioceptive or by somatosenosory stimulation. These patients are, also, more likely to report that they prevent seizures by altering the characteristics of the stimulus. [3] These two patients have a form of relex epilepsy induced by a combination of eating and the use of a spoon. Both had rapid habituation with only a transient reduction in seizures following a change in feeding utensils. Alteration of the stimulus did decrease the frequency of the events but only transiently. One patient with video EEG monitoring revealed a focal seizure onset. They are both poorly controlled with underlying symptomatic etiologies. 1 Warren T. Blume?Chair, Hans O. Lüders, Eli Mizrahi, Carlo Tassinari, Walter van Emde Boas, Jerome Engel, Jr. Epilepsia 2001 Sep; 42(9): 1212?8. ?Glossary of Descriptive Terminology for Ictal Semiology: a report of the ILAE task force on classification and terminology? 2 Xue, LY, Ritaccio, AL American Journal of Electrodiganostic Technology 2006 Mar; 46(1): 39?48. ?Reflex seizures and reflex epilepsy.? 3 Zifkin, BG, Andermann, F. http://www.ILAE.com Mar 29,2003. ?Precipitating Stimuli for Reflex Seizures.? 1 Lobna Mansour, 2 Sherine M. Wagih, and 3 Dorria Salem ( 1 Pediatric ; 2 Nuclear Medicine ; and 3 Radiodiagnosis, Cairo University ) Rationale: Intractable epilepsy is defined as the persistence of seizures despite adequate trial of antiepileptic drugs with a minimum of two first line drugs either as monotherapy or in combination as appropriate to the epileptic syndrome. Rationale of the study: The aim of this work is to assess the role of ictal and interictal SPECT in evaluation of patients with intractable epilepsy  storage Weber S. (2), tuberous sclerosis (2) and NFI (1). It was found that in group A, the EEG was sensitive in detecting abnormalities in 78.2%, MRI in 39.1%, intercital SPECT in 56.5% While in group B, EEG was diagnostic in 75%, MRI in 81.2% and interictal SPECT in 87.5%. Ictal SPECT (13 cases) was localizing in 69.2%, interictal SPECT in 38.5%, MRI in 30.7% and EEG in 23.1%. Ictal SPECT was diagnostic and localizing in 4 of 8 cases (50%) in whom MRI was normal. Conclusions: Ictal SPECT was the most sensitive modality in detecting abnormalities in 76.9% compared to 69.2%, 38.5% and 46.2 with EEG, MRI and interical SPECT respectively. (Supported by: This study was carried out in the children hospital, Cairo University, Neuropediatric unit.) 1 Anthony Marmarou, 1 John M. Pellock, 1 Lori L. Davis, 1 Thomas E. Cason, 1 James P. Agnew, 2 Shlomo Shinnar, 2 Christine O'Dell, 3 Darrell V. Lewis, 4 Douglas R. Nordli, 5 L. Matthew Frank, 6 Dale C. Hesdorffer, 1,2,3,4,5,6in addition to the FebSTAT Study Team ( 1 Neurosurgery, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 2 Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; 3 Neurology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC ; 4 Neurology, Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL ; 5 Neurology, Children's Hospital of the King's Daughters, Norfolk, VA ; and 6 Epidemiology, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: A Web-based relational database management system (RDBMS) for electronic entry of paper Case Report Forms (CRFs) transmitted by 6 study centers were linked dynamically to a series of databases for prospective and retrospective cohorts (48.6% Female, 52.3% Caucasian, 41.1% Black, and 17.8% Hispanic with a median age of 16.7 months) of children experiencing febrile seizures. Methods: The FebSTAT study includes 5500 data elements. Included are demographics, neuropsychological scoring, MRI structural analysis, EEG clinical assessment, virology, genetics, medications, seizure start and stop, continuous intermittent seizure type and follow up data. A relational database allowing entry tracking and data reporting was designed utilizing enterprise database software residing on a Dell PowerEdge 350 server. Over 150 entity- relationship tables address form data and samples including error and submission tracking. All data transmissions were HIPAA compliant. Archiving and backups of the complete database are performed nightly. Results: The system promotes efficiency of personnel via the automation of tasks such as form, sample, and data error tracking. Status of data transmission and receipt can be viewed by the investigators and study coordinators. The system eliminates the need of personnel to manually re-query outstanding data by using programmatic means (SQL) to re-query on a preset schedule. The database reflects the most recent updates of information at all times, rather than obsolete or older data which can result from the manual entry of data updates by personnel. The system is capable of performing analysis to find trends such as persistently missed questions, study center performance and CRF design problems The query system for quality control has resulted in 0.30% error rate and of 2441 queries, only 53 (2.0%) remain unresolved. Conclusions: Despite the large number of variables, the FebSTAT database optimized for this study was achievable and allows easy access for analysis and study by the FebSTAT Investigators. (Supported by NINDS ? R01 NS43209 Consequences of Prolonged Febrile Seizures in Childhood.) 1 Nadia M. McKenny-Fick, 2 Colin D. Ferrie, 2 John H. Livingston, and 3 Richard G. Feltbower ( 1 Leeds Medical School, Leeds University, Leeds, West Yorkshire, United Kingdom ; 2 Paediatric Neurology, Leeds General Infirmary, Leeds, West Yorkshire, United Kingdom ; and 3 Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Leeds, Leeds, West Yorkshire, United Kingdom ) Rationale: There is little published data on the expected duration of depressed consciousness following epileptic seizures. A previous study from our group found that median recovery time in children from epileptic seizures involving impaired consciousness was 43 minutes, with febrile seizures recovering more quickly (median 15 minutes). There was a trend for recovery time following symptomatic seizures to be longer than that following idiopathic and febrile seizures, but patient numbers were too small to demonstrate this conclusively. This paediatric prospective cohort study investigates recovery time following symptomatic seizures, compared to those of other aetiologies. Methods: Children aged 1?16 years presenting to two Accident and Emergency departments and paediatric wards in Leeds hospitals (United Kingdom), suffering a witnessed seizure in which consciousness was impaired, were studied. Hourly coma scores were performed, using the Modified Paediatric Coma Scale, until a score of 15 was reached. Seizures were classified as febrile, idiopathic, remote and acute symptomatic. Factors which affect recovery time were investigated using the Poisson Regression model (p < 0.05). Results: Data from 99 seizures suffered by 75 children (33 males) was obtained. Seizures were classified as: acute symptomatic seizures (n = 26); remote symptomatic (n = 49); and idiopathic (n = 24). Recovery in hours was significantly prolonged in those children (n = 40) receiving emergency antiepileptic medication, 4.66 ± 1.64?9.21 (median hours ± interquartile range) versus 1.0 ± 0.3?2.0 in those (n = 59) not receiving medication (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.11?1.68, p = 0.003). Acute symptomatic seizures took longer to recover (1.94 ± 0.2?9.12) than those of other aetiologies (remote symptomatic 1.5 ± 0.92?6.31, idiopathic 0.83 ± 0.3?2.68). When acute symptomatic seizures were compared with data for febrile seizures from our previous study (n = 59), recovery was significantly longer (0.3 ± 0.15?0.7, 95% CI 0.46?0.95, p = 0.024). Acute symptomatic seizures occurring in children with prior neurological abnormalities (acute on remote) took longer to recover than all other groups (4.0 ± 0.89?10.5). Age, sex, type and duration of seizure had no affect on recovery time. Conclusions: Symptomatic seizures take longer to recover than seizures of other aetiologies, particularly febrile seizures. The ?acute on remote? group has not been previously identified and warrants further investigation. It is recommended that a child who presents with a seizure and a fever, who has not fully recovered within 1 hour, should be investigated for an acute symptomatic aetiology. 1 Sabiha Merchant, 2 Cynthia Harden, 3 Ronald G. Crystal, 3 Stefan Worgall, 1 Gail Solomon, 2 Douglas R. Labar, 3 Neil Hackett, 4 Michael Kaplitt, 3 Dolan Sondhi, 4 Mark Souweidane, and 1 Barry E. Kosofsky ( 1 Pediatrics, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ; 3 Genetic Medicine, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ; and 4 Neurosurgery, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ) Rationale: LINCL is a fatal, neurodegenerative, childhood, autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease resulting from mutations in the CLN2 gene. The present study assesses EEG abnormalities before and 2 wk after therapy. Methods: Five subjects (2 female, 3 male, ages 3.5 to 6 yr, median 5.5) underwent direct CNS administration (2 ? 1012 particle units) of AAV2CUhCLN2 through 6 burr holes. Sixteen channel video-EEG recording was performed for 24 hours: 4 days prior to treatment and 14 days after treatment. Quantitative spike analysis was performed during wakefulness for 1 hr of each video-EEG study by 2 readers unblinded as to treatment status. All subjects had a history of generalized convulsions. Results: The initial EEGs showed generalized moderate to high amplitude spike and wave discharges with maximum amplitude occipitally. The background was characterized by diffuse 3?5 Hz rhythmic activity. Features of normal sleep patterns were generally preserved. No patients had electrographic seizures while on monitoring. This EEG background did not change significantly when assessed 2 wk post-gene therapy. The mean spike frequency over 1 hr in 5 subjects prior to gene therapy was 56.6 ± 15.5 (SD) and the mean spike frequency 2 wk after gene therapy was 38.8 ± 16.7 (SD; paired samples t-test p = 0.006). Conclusions: Initial evaluation of the effect of AAV2CUhCLN2 on EEGs as assessed by quantitative spike analysis suggests a decrease of epileptiform discharges 14 days post-vector administration. Longer follow-up for assessment of the impact of gene therapy on clinical seizure occurrence is underway. (Supported by Nathan's Battle Foundation, Greenwood, Indiana.) 1 Avani C. Modi, and 2 Tracy A. Glauser ( 1 Pediatrics ? Division of Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Psychology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Pediatrics ? Division of Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Adherence to medical regimens is a significant problem for children with chronic illnesses and their families. The average estimate of non-adherence is 50% to long-term treatments. Non-adherence estimates in pediatric epilepsy range from 14 to 43% based on the measurement method (e.g., self-report, blood levels). However, these methods have proven to be unreliable compared to more objective electronic monitoring methods. The purpose of the current study was to document the course of adherence using MicroElectronic Monitoring System (MEMS) for pediatric patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy. Methods: Data collection is ongoing and to date, participants include six children with new-onset epilepsy (M = 8.1 years; 50% females, 50% African American/33% Caucasian/17% Biracial) and their parents. Children were diagnosed with partial (50%), absence (33%), and non-absence generalized (17%) epilepsy. Parents were asked to use the MEMS TrackCaps to assess daily medication taking to either carbamazepine or valproic acid. Results: Preliminary data regarding one-month adherence indicated that ?taking compliance? (number of doses taken/number of doses prescribed) ranged from 84.8 ? 100% (M = 93%). Patients were adherent to their medications on 87.8% of days. Patients who were 90% adherent or higher appeared to have only 1?2 seizures after initiation of medication compared to patients who had multiple seizures with adherence rates lower than 90%. Longitudinal data over a 7-month period will also be presented. Conclusions: Preliminary data suggest that one-month adherence rates for children with new-onset epilepsy, using an objective method of measurement, are significantly higher than what has previously been reported in the pediatric literature. Understanding the longitudinal course of adherence over time is important because it is likely that adherence rates will decrease over time. One important area of future research is to assess adherence and barriers to effective disease management for children with epilepsy in a longitudinal, systematic manner. (Supported by: Funding supported by an NIH T32 training grant (DK063929) and the Department of Pediatrics at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center.) 1 Lakshmi Nadiminti, 1 Deepa Sirsi, 2 Jeffrey M. Perlman, 1 Maurine A. Packard, and 1 Gail E. Solomon ( 1 Child Neurology, New York Presbyterian Hospital ? Cornell, New York, NY ; and 2 Neonatology, New York Presbyterian Hospital ? Cornell, New York, NY ) Rationale: Intracranial hemorrhage is the cause of neonatal seizures in 17% full term infants, and is more commonly seen following vaginal delivery assisted with forceps or vacuum extraction. However, only some infants with intracranial hemorrhage come to clinical attention. The etiology of the intracranial hemorrhage and the compartments involved determine the clinical presentation and outcome. Previous studies have identified that primary intraparenchymal hemorrhages are the site of bleeding resulting in the greatest proportion of physical and cognitive disabilities. Right temporal lobe hemorrhage and resulting apneic seizures in a full term neonate has been reported previously, but there are very few cases reported in the literature. We report 2 neonates with apneic seizures as the initial manifestation of temporal lobe hemorrhage. Methods: Retrospective record review of 2 full term male neonates with no significant perinatal complications who presented with apneic seizures and temporal lobe hemorrhage. Results:? One full term neonate presented on day 1 of life with episodes of apnea and desaturations. CT scan and MRI revealed a left temporal intraparencymal and extra-axial hemorrhage with surrounding edema and a 4mm left to right midline shift. On day 2, conjugate eye deviation to the right was associated with the apneic events requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation. EEG monitoring demonstarted multiple left hemispheric seizures, which clinically corelated with apnea and rightward eye devation. Seizures resolved after phenobarbital was loaded and there were no further apeneic events. No specific etiology for the intracranial bleed could be determined on further imaging and coagulation studies. - The second neonate presented on day 1 of life with episodes of cyanosis unrelated to feeding and on day 2 had multiple episodes of apnea and desaturations requiring bagging. He appeared well between episodes. MRI demonstrated a posterior right temporal lobe hemorrhage, with an overlying subdural hematoma, as well as a right sigmoid sinus thrombosis.Evaluation for hypercoagulable states was unrevealing. A clinical diagnosis of apneic seizures was made, phenobarbital was loaded, no further apneic episodes occurred. Subsequent continuous EEG monitoring showed slowing in the right hemisphere. Conclusions: Apnea as the sole manifestation of a seizure is rare. It is important to recognize that although uncommon, full term neonates may present with apneic seizures as the initial manifestation of either left or right temporal lobe intracranial hemorrhage. Continous EEG monitoring should be considered in a full term neonate with unexplained apnea. Early detection of seizures can lead to investigation into the etiology of the hemorrhage, facilitate prompt management, which may help reduce the degree of ensuing neuro-developmenatl disablity. 1 Kathleen J. Nolan, 2 Carol S. Camfield, and 2 Peter R. Camfield ( 1 Class of 2008, Dalhousie University Medical School, Halifax, NS, Canada ; and 2 Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University, IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS, Canada ) Rationale: Basic research about Dravet Syndrome proves that this severe epilepsy is related to an SCN1A gene mutation; however, the effect of this syndrome on families has not been studied. We investigated how parents cope with and care for a child with Dravet syndrome, a catastrophic epilepsy with three distinct stages. Stage 1 begins in the first year of life with repeated episodes of febrile status epilepticus. Stage 2 starts in the second year with uncontrollable seizures of multiple types, behaviour problems, and developmental stagnation or regression. Stage 3 begins in adolescence with fewer seizures and developmental stability. Mortality is 10?15%. Methods: Participants were North American parents of children with Dravet syndrome: 24 parents participated in semi-structured interviews and 17 completed ?Impact of Childhood Neurologic Disability? (ICND) scales ? a validated questionnaire assessing the impact of epilepsy on families in 4 domains: epilepsy, cognition, behaviour, and physical/neurological function. Children included 11 males and 13 females aged 2?24 years (mean = 10.2 y, SD = 5.7). Results: Stage 1: Stage 1 was the most difficult stage for parents (p = 0.03). Uncertainty about the diagnosis was the primary stressor. Seizure control was rated as worst during this time. Most parents (54%) recalled no positive experiences in caring for their child, and many negative interactions with health care. Stage 2: Seizure control was reported as slightly better in Stage 2 but remained the primary stressor (p < 0.001). Developmental stagnation and severe hyperactivity emerged. Impressive negative effects were noted on parents' relationships with family (38%), friends (63%), and spouse (54%). Parents tended to report more external coping mechanisms, such as support groups, friends, and family. Stage 3: Stage 3 brought improved seizure control (p < 0.001) but decreased cognitive level and worsening behavioral problems (p < 0.03). Parents reported increased social isolation and tended to rely on internal coping mechanisms, such as religious prayer, activities outside the home, and personal education about Dravet syndrome. Respite and relief care were extremely difficult to obtain at each stage. ICND scores at each stage mirrored the findings of the interviews. Conclusions: All three stages of Dravet syndrome present specific serious challenges for parents, based on interviews and a concurrent validated questionnaire (ICND). Seizures are persistent and severe but developmental, behavioral, and sleep issues add to the stress. In the absence of truly successful medical treatment, attention needs to shift toward helping families cope. Specific emergency protocols, assistance in locating respite care, and psychological or social work intervention for families may help. (Supported by summer student bursaries from Epilepsy Canada and Dalhousie University.) 1 Magda L. Nunes, and 1 Bianca H.B. Batista ( 1 Neurology, Pontificia Universidade Catolica do RS, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; and Neurology, Pontificia Universidade Catolica do RS, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil ) Rationale: Sleep disturbances are a common complain among patients with epilepsy. Studies assessing the relationship between sleep and epilepsy during infancy are scarce. The purpose of this study was to evaluate sleep quality in children with epilepsy. Methods: Cross sectional study where two questionnaires regarding sleep quality, were applied to children with and without epilepsy. Data about sleep characteristics and epilepsy were also collected (type of seizure, epileptic syndrome, number of seizures, use of anticonvulsant drugs). Results: In the age group of children from 2 to 6 years old, we have observed that children with epilepsy have worst sleep habits than children without epilepsy (p < 0,05). Among the epilepsy group, children having nocturnal seizures present more frequently worse sleep habits when compared to the children with daytime seizures (p < 0,04). Children who use a single AED have better sleep habits than children with polytherapy (p < 0,01). As the delay of the neuropsychomotor development was worst, the frequency of the worst sleep habits were greater (p < 0,04). Children with epilepsy presenting an Engel score equal or greater than 7 have greater frequency of worst sleep habits when compared to children with better controled seizures (p < 0,001). Children with benign epilepsies present more frequently better sleep habits when compared to children with bad prognosis epilepsy (p < 0,04). In the group of children 7 to 14 years old, patients with epilepsy have a worst sleep quality when compared to the control group. In the group of children with epilepsy, the mean score of the questionnaire in patients with daytime seizures was lower than the group with nocturnal seizures (p < 0,001). There was no significant difference for the scores of the sleep questionnaires among the types of used drugs (p = 0,13); however, the comparison between monotherapy and polytherapy showed that the group under polytherapy had a greater score in the sleep questionnaire or worse sleep quality (p < 0,001). Children with epilepsy and neuropsychomotor developmental delay have a mean sleep score greater than children with epilepsy without delay (p < 0,001). We have observed a positive correlation among high scores of sleep questionnaire and high scores of the Engel scale (p < 0,001), meaning that patients with bad seizure control have worse quality of sleep. The analyses of seizure type showed worse quality of sleep in patients with generalized seizures (p = 0,04). Patients with severe epileptic syndromes have worse quality of sleep (p < 0,001). Conclusions: Our results showed that children with epilepsy presented greater incidence of sleep problems when compared to children without epilepsy. In the group of epileptic patients we observed that night seizures, polytherapy, developmental delay, refractory epilepsy, generalized seizures, and epileptic syndromes with unfavourable outcome were predictors for worse sleep quality. (Supported by CAPES.) 1 Dominique Parain, 2 Genevieve Demarquay, 3 Sylviane Peudenier, 4 Jean Luc Schaff, 5 Louis Vallée, and 6 Anne Lortie ( 1 Service de Neurophysiologie, Hôpital Charles-Nicolle, Rouen, France ; 2 Unité d'Epileptologie, Hôpital Neurologique, Lyon, France ; 3 Unité d'Epileptologie, Hôpital Universitaire, Brest, France ; 4 Unité d'Epileptologie, Hôpital Universitaire, Nancy, France ; 5 Unité d'Epileptologie, Hôpital Universitaire, Lille, France ; and 6 Service de Neurologie, CHU Mère-Enfant Sainte-Justine, Montreal, Canada ) Rationale: Absence seizures may be seen in a variety of epileptic syndromes in childhood. Approximately 5?10% of the patients will have medically refractory seizures. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) Therapy may reduce the frequency of absence seizures in treatment-resistant patients and/or improve their quality of life. Methods: 16 patients (9 males, 7 females) were treated with adjunctive VNS Therapy for medically refractory absence seizures. All patients had the diagnosis of childhood absence epilepsy. Mean age at implantation was 8 years (± 1.30; range, 6?12 years). Absence seizures were counted at baseline using 24-hour EEG recordings. The same evaluation was repeated every 6 months after implantation during the follow-up period of 18 months. Patients were treated with an average of 1.8 antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) per patient at baseline. No changes in AEDs were allowed. Results: There was a total seizure reduction of 31% after 6 months (p-value = 0.0071; paired T test), 67% after 12 months (p-value < 0.0001; paired T test) and 76% after 18 months (p-value = 0.0156; Wilcoxon's paired signed rank test). Seizure reductions ≥ 50% were observed in 38% of the patients after 6 months, in 92% after 12 months and in 88% after 18 months of treatment. Three patients (18.7%) remained seizure free, and one patient (6.2%) showed no response to VNS Therapy at 18 months. Improvement in alertness (?better? or ?much better?) was observed in 60% of the patients. Seizures became worse when stimulation stopped in one patient due to a lead break, and in two other patients due to end of battery life, with improvement after restauration of the stimulation. Conclusions: Adjunctive VNS Therapy was effective for the treatment of medically refractory absence seizures in this patient population, allowing a seizure reduction of 76% after 18 months. The percentage of patients showing seizure reductions increased over the 18 months of treatment. Alertness improved in 60% of the patients. These results are encouraging and worth further investigation. 1 Jorge G. Burneo, 1 Asuri N. Prasad, 2 Bradley Corbett, and 3 Xuelian Sang ( 1 Epilepsy Programme, University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada ; 2 Research Data Centre, University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada ; and 3 Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Epidemiological studies of childhood epilepsy are of importance to compare incidence and prevalence rates, age distribution, inheritance, seizure types, epilepsy syndromes and treatment strategies. Few data exist on the frequency and burden of childhood epilepsy in Canada and on the impact of childhood epilepsy in the general population. We assess the point prevalence of childhood epilepsy in Canada. Methods: We analyzed data from two cycles of the National Longitudinal Survey of Children and Youth (NLSCY, N = 17,832 for cycle 2, and N = 27,668 for cycle 2). Each cycle was done over a 2-year period (cycle 2: 1996?1997, cycle 3: 1998?1999). The NLSCY captured, in a longitudinal manner, sociodemographic information, as well as age, sex, education, ethnicity, household income, and labor force status of participants since birth to 11 years old. The presence of epilepsy was probed by the use of specific questions in the survey. In the survey the following specific question was asked of the person most knowledgeable in the household. The answers were refered to conditions that have lasted or are expected to last 6 months or more. Does any of the children in the house have any of the following long-term conditions that have been diagnosed by a health professional? The list of responses included ?Epilepsy? and certain comorbid conditions (Allergies? Bronchitis? Heart condition or disease? Cerebral Palsy? Kidney Condition or disease? Mental handicap?). In addition, a subsequent question identified whether the condition was treated by means of a specific anticonvulsant medication.(Anticonvulsants or anti-epileptic pills?). Prevalence was age-adjusted by using national standard populations at the time of each survey. Results: In cycle 2, 35 of 17,832 subjects were described to have the diagnosis of epilepsy, yielding a weighted point prevalence of 3.67 per 1,000. In cycle 3, 59 of 27,668 children were described as having epilepsy, yielding a weighted point prevalence of 3.59 per 1,000. Relatively small sample sizes in the individual cycles precluded the calculation of rates stratifed by age, sex and socioeconomic variables. Conclusions: The overall results are in keeping with those obtained in other developed countries by using different ascertainment methods. We discuss methodologic aspects related to the ascertainment of epilepsy in both surveys, and to the validity and implications of our findings. (Supported by Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, University of Western Ontario, Academic Development Fund (JGB).) 1 Rajesh RamachandranNair, 2 Jennifer Evans, 1 William Logan, and 1 Elizabeth J. Donner ( 1 Division of Neurology, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada ; and 2 Division of Functional Neuroimaging, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada ) Clinical profile and f MRI activation pattern No Onset of Epilepsy years Duration years MRI Localization Areas of activation Anterior LI Posterior LI ?1 15 0.25 L-F DNET L-F L-IF,MF,MTG,STG,R-MF,MTG +0.99 +0.8 ?2 6.5 2 L-F Glioma L-F L-IF,MF,STG,MTG,AG,SMG,R-IF,STG,MTG +0.92 +0.88 ?3 7 4 N L-FC L-IF,MF,STG,MTG,R-IF,MF,STG,MTG +0.8 ?0.93 ?4 9 1 L Hemi volume loss L-Hemi L-IF,MF,STG,MTG +1.0 +1.0 ?5 9 2 L-T Glioma L-T L-IF,MF,STG,MTG,R-IF,MF,STG,MTG +0.93 ?0.66 ?6 3 6 L- Mesial Temporal Sclerosis L-T L-MF,STG,MTG,R-IF,MF ?0.39 +1.0 ?7 1 12 N L-T L-IF,MF,STG,MTG,AG,R-IF,MF,STG,MTG +0.64 ?0.16 ?8 15 1 L- T Gliosis L-T L-IF,MF,STG,MTG +1.0 +1.0 ?9 15.5 1 L-T Glioma L-T L-IF,MF,STG,MTG +1.0 +1.0 10 3 8 L- F CD L-F L-IF,MF,STG,MTG,AG,R-IF,MF,STG,MTG +0.59 +0.77 11 3 13 N L-T L-IF,MF,STG,SMG +1.0 +1.0 12 14 0.6 L-T Ganglioglioma L-T L-IF,MF,STG,MTG,SMG,R-IF,MF,STG +0.94 ?0.23 13 9 7 L-TO CD L-TO L-IF,MF,R-IF,MF,STG,MTG ?0.75 ?1.0 14 13.5 1.5 R-T DNET R-T L-IF,MF,MTG,STG,AG +1.0 +1.0 15 6 3 N R- Rolandic L-IF,MF,MTG,STG,AG,SMG,R-IF,MF,MTG,STG,AG,SMG +0.67 +0.06 16 0.25 14 R-F CD R-F L-IF,MF,MTG,STG,SMG,R-MF,MTG,STG,AG +0.79 +0.64 17 7 3 R- P CD R-FP L-IF,MF,STG,MTG,SMG,R-IF,MF,STG,MTG,SMG +0.68 +0.34 18 12 2.5 R-F Gliosis R-F L-MF,STG +1.0 +1.0 19 10 4.5 R-T Cavernoma R-T L-IF,MF,STG, R-MF +0.46 +1.0 20 12 5 R-T Glioma R-T L-IF,MF,MTG,R-MF +0.97 +1.0 Rationale: To study patterns of language representation in right handed (RH) children with refractory epilepsy using functional MRI (fMRI) Methods: 20 children with refractory epilepsy referred for language lateralization by fMRI completed 2 of 3 standardized block design language tasks (verb generation, fluency, object naming).Rregion of interest (ROI) analysis was applied to the task which produced activation of both anterior (frontal) and posterior (temporal) language areas using AFNI. An Asymmetry Index (AI) for anterior and posterior language areas was calculated (AI =?0.1 ?+0.1; mixed dominance). Results: 9/13 children with left hemisphere (LH) seizure focus (SF) (Group A) and 4/7 with R-hemisphere (RH) focus (Group B) had bilateral language activation. 6 children (46%) in group A had RH dominance; mean anterior AI +0.67, mean posterior AI +0.34 (p = 0.25). No children in group B had RH dominance. Mean posterior AI in group A did not statistically differ from the mean posterior AI in group B (p = 0.26). Neither age of epilepsy onset or pathology affected AI. Conclusions: Bilateral language activation was seen irrespective of the side of SF; however, only children with L-SF had RH dominance. Posterior language area shifted more frequently than anterior area. Thus, while atypical patterns of language activity are common in this group of RH children with refractory epilepsy, true RH dominance was only seen in the presence of a left SF. 1 V. Reed, 1 M. Brunner, 1 R. Sälke-Kellermann, 1 S. Novak, 1 J. Kröll, 1 M. Fuchs, 1 G. Krämer, and 1 H. Jokeit ( 1 Neuropsychology, Swiss Epilepsy Center, Zürich, CH, Switzerland ) Rationale: A high comorbidity between attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and epilepsy has been noted in the literature. Prevalence rates and associations between type of epilepsy and ADHD are disputed. To estimate the need for better-tailored health care, we screened pediatric outpatient admissions to the Swiss Epilepsy Center for possible ADHD using translations of the Conners' Parent Rating Scale ? Revised (CPRS-R) and, to assess a wider range of behavioral problems, the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ). Our goal was to determine the frequency and severity of attentional disorders in referrals to our clinic. We also investigated type of epilepsy, age and gender as possible associated risk factors. Methods: Parents of children with epilepsy aged 4?16 were requested to complete both questionnaires. Inclusion criteria were: a diagnosis of epilepsy, no mental impairment, and fluency in German. All children underwent a neuropediatric examination with EEG. Epilepsy was diagnosed using ICD-10 criteria. The SDQ is a screening questionnaire for 4 -16 year-olds that assesses positive and negative behavioral attributes. The CPRS-R rates 27 behavioral attributes relating to ADHD. We used a cut-off of T score ≥ 66 in the CPRS-R to indicate probable presence of ADHD and a score of ≥ 17 total difficulties score in the SDQ as abnormal. Results: Completed questionnaires were obtained from 51 patients. The most frequent reasons for exclusion were no epilepsy diagnosis (10%) and mental impairment (4%). The most frequent type of epilepsy was symptomatic epilepsy (45%), followed by generalized idiopathic epilepsy (10%). The mean age was 11.2 years with 27 females and 24 males. 29 children (57%) did not exceed the critical values in either questionnaire. 19 (37%) were above the cut-off on the CPRS and 11 (22%) in both questionnaires, thus meeting strict criteria for the probably presence of ADHD. The two scales were moderately correlated (r = 0.526), with the CRS-R being the more sensitive instrument. We found no correlation in either questionnaire with age, sex or type of epilepsy and critical scores. Conclusions: Parents' ratings of ADHD symptoms in their children were highly elevated as compared to base rates. We found 22% to meet strict criteria for probable presence of ADHD. The majority with critical CPRS values also scored in the critical range on the SDQ, suggesting a wider spectrum of behavioral problems than merely ADHD symptoms exist in this population. We found no effects of age or type of epilepsy on critical scores in either questionnaire. Whereas a sex bias in favor of males is found in non-epileptic ADHD populations, we found no such association. Our findings of high rates of ADHD symptoms in children with epilepsy highlights the need for increased awareness of the comorbidity of these disorders as well as for targeted medical or psycho-behavioral treatment. 1 Frank J. Ritter, 1 Jason Doescher, 1 Michael D. Frost, and 1 Mary Gustafson ( 1 Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, St. Paul, MN ) Rationale: Levetiracetam is approved for the treatment of partial seizures in children age 4 years and older. We investigated the use of initial monotherapy in children 1 month to 8 years old. There is little know about the initial treatment in children, with regard to efficacy and tolerability. Methods: This is a retrospective chart audit of 20 children who were randomly selected from a larger group of children less than 10 years old, who were initially treated for epilepsy with levetiracetam monotherapy. Charts were reviewed for demographics, efficacy, and tolerability. Results: There were 13 males and 7 females, mean age 3.8 years, with a mean follow up of 2.1 years. All had partial onset with or without secondarily generalized seizures. Nineteen of 20 had abnormal EEG. The dose of levetiracetam was between 10 and 70 mg/kg/day. Sixteen (80%) were seizure free. Of these, 5 discontinued due to adverse behavioral side effects. Three of these 5 had adverse behavior with the next medication tried. Four did not gain seizure control with levetiracetam monotherapy, but were controlled with the next medication tried. Conclusions: Initial monotherapy with levetiracetam was an effective treatment for partial onset seizures in children. Additional controlled trials would be beneficial. 1 Rana R. Said, 1 Andrea V. Andrade, and 1 Susan Arnold ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Epilepsy and Clinical Neurophysiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: Pseudoseizures are a well described clinical entity in adolesent and adult populations. However, little is know about etiologies, co-morbity, and outcome of pseudoseizures in children less than 12 years old. Methods: Review of the Epilepsy/EEG database at Children's Medical Center at Dallas, revealed 12 children less than 12 years old with psychogenic non-epileptic paroxysmal events. Chart review and review of EEG and Video-EEG data was then done to assess age of onset, associated co-morbidities, EEG patterns, MRI findings, and psycho-social history. Follow-up data was available on 11/12 children. Results: Of the twelve children identified, 6 were girls. Age of onset of non-epileptic events ranged from 3.5 years to 11 years old (median 8 years old). 7/12 had a previous history of epilepsy and were on antiepileptic medications. One child was on Depakote for 5 years despite all events since onset likely representing non-epileptic events. The most common semiology for this younger age group was staring ahead/unresponsive to verbal stimulation, all with a volitional component and apparent secondary gain. Less frequent patterns included myoclonic jerking (1/12), pelvic thrusting (1/12), generalized shaking (1/12) and focal right arm ?waving? (1/12). In three of the 12 children, interictal EEG abnormaliteis were present, including focal discharges and generalized spike and slow wave discharges. In one child, both epileptic and non-epileptic seizures were captured during a single 36 hour prolonged video-EEG monitoring period. Significant psychosocial stressor were identified in nearly all children, with 2/12 having had recent sexual abuse, 3/12 associated with parental separation/divorce, 1/12 recently placed under Child Protective Services custody for maternal Munchausen by proxy, and the remainder having various other stressors including school bullying. Conclusions: Although likely less common than pseudoseizures in older children and adolescents, non-epileptic seizures are not rare in the younger child, seen to occur in our series in children as young as 3.5 years old for secondary gain or with a volitional component. The most common semiology in the younger child appears to be more bland, with the majority demonstrating periods of staring/unresponsive to verbal stimulation. Psychologic/psycho-social stressors must be thoroughly evaluated in the child to assist in management and treatment of pseudoseizures in this age group. 1 Justin C. Sanchez, 1 Zhao Liu, and 1 Paul R. Carney ( 1 Department of Pediatrics, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Surgical evaluation of intractable epilepsy often involves continuous intracranial subdural recording in which the goal is to determine the seizure onset zone. A difficulty with this approach is that the epileptologist must collect a sufficient number of seizures to evaluate if the patient is a candidate for resective surgery. Methods for interically identifying the seizure onset zone may shorten the phase 2 subdural monitoring and improve outcome. The goal of this research is to compare the interictal amplitude modulations of slow potentials, gamma, fast gamma, and neural ensemble activity for quantitatively locating the seizure onset zone. Methods: The subject participating in the study was undergoing extraoperative subdural grid evaluation for the treatment of intractable neocortical epilepsy. Multichannel subdural potentials were collected (IRB approved) while the patient was quietly awake. Neuronal activity indicated by the dashed box in Fig. 1 was recorded at 12 kHz and bandpass filtered from 1?6 kHz. To compare the seizure onset zone identification in multiple frequency bands, we define the amplitude modulation as the sum of the power of the ECoG voltage signal during interictal segments of recording (compared 10s-60min). The seizure onset zone quantified was compared to the zone as determined independently by two certified pediatric epileptologists (PRC, ZL). Results: The amplitude modulations in the ECoG data indicates that the seizure onset zone demarcation is dependent upon the frequency band. Both the gamma bands presented similar regions of maximal amplitude modulations in electrodes 45, 46, and 47. The slow potential amplitude modulations were not as distinct but modulation was posterior and temporal to the gamma bands. Neural ensemble modulation indicating the activation of large neuronal networks presented in electrodes 49?52, 25?28, and were merging into the gamma onset zones. Conclusions: A direct correspondence was found between the quantitative analysis and the visually identified seizure onset zone. Clinically, this preliminary result indicates that analysis of brief (10s-30min) ECoG recordings could potentially be used to make efficient recommendations for epilepsy surgery and could shorten phase 2 monitoring. Neurophysiologically, the primary seizure onset zone was most clearly defined by gamma and fast gamma activity implicating the potential role of dendritic activiy in ictogenesis. However, the spread of epileptic activity was primarily identified by the neural ensemble activity corresponding to the axonal output of cortical neurons. [figure 1] (Supported by Children's Miracle Network and Wilder ERC.) 1 Dewi V. Schrader, 2 Paul Steinbok, and 1 Mary B. Connolly ( 1 Division of Pediatric Neurology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada ; and 2 Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada ) 1 Patient 1 Patient 2 Patient 3 Patient 4 Age at seizure onset 1 Day 5 Months 9 Months 33 Months Gender Female Female Male Male Etiology Focal cortical dysplasia Focal encephalitis Focal cortical dysplasia Rasmussen's and cortical dysplasia Number of AED's prior to status 9 10 16 Nil (presented in status) Age at status epilepticus 1 day 6 years 19 months 33 months Duration of staus 45 days 14 days 30 days 2 months Medications for status Phenobarbital Phenytoin Nitrazepam ACTH IV Midazolam Propofol Lorazepam Chlormethiazole Oral AEDs IV Midazolam, Propofol, Ketogenic diet, Oral AEDs IV Midazolam Thiopental Steroids IVIG Ketogenic diet 14 other AEDs Surgery 1) Left frontal resection 2) Peri-insular hemispherotomy 1) Left temporoparietal occipital resection 2) resection of the occipital pole 1) Multiple subpial transactions in the left motor cortex 2) Left frontal resection Left occipital resection Duration of follow up 7 years 6 years 1 year 10 months Seizure frequency Seizure free 5?6 seizures per month on one AED Seizure free on 2 AEDs Weekly seizures on 5 AEDs Rationale: Over the years, case reports in the literature have suggested that a small percentage of patients with status epilepticus of focal origin may be successfully treated with resective surgery. The most common etiologies in reported cases are Rasmussen's encephalitis, cortical dysplasia and hemimegalancephaly. Methods: We reviewed our epilepsy surgery database since 1992 for cases where urgent resective surgery was performed for medically refractory status epilepticus. Results: We reviewed a total of 205 surgeries for refractory epilepsy. Four patients had urgent surgery as treatment for refractory status epilepticus. Details of the study population are described in Table 1.The duration of status before surgery was from 14 to 45 days. MR imaging demonstrated cortical dysplasia in one patient, white matter abnormalities in another, and was normal in two. EEGs showed focal seizures originating from one hemisphere in three of the patients. In the patient with cortical dysplasia and Rasmussen's encephalitis, seizures were recorded independently from both hemispheres but arose most frequently from the left occipital area. Surgery was performed with the aim of terminating status. In follow up, three patients have developmental delay and one is making developmental progress. No patient had complications related to their surgery aside from the predicted neurological deficits such as hemiparesis. Conclusions: In our experience, the number of patients in true status epilepticus at the time of surgery was very low. Following surgery, three of four patients experienced resolution of status epilepticus and had a significant reduction in seizures; two patients were seizure free. In all cases, surgery provided a specific diagnosis that was invaluable in directing management. 1 Gregory B. Sharp, 3Andrea E. Van Lierop, 1 Rolla M. Shbarou, 2Mary E. Atherton, 1 Bassem H. El-Nabbout, 1 Bernadette M. Lange, and 1 Cristian M. Ionita ( 1 Pediatrics, University of Arkansas Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR ) Rationale: To evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of levetiracetam as initial monotherapy for children with a diagnosis of new onset epilepsy. Methods: A retrospective review of medical records was performed to identify children up to 18 years who were given a new diagnosis of epilepsy and were treated with levetiracetam as initial maintenance therapy. Treatment was initiated between January 1, 2003 and October 1, 2005. All patients were initially evaluated by a pediatric neurologist at Arkansas Children's Hospital. Outcome was determined by review of the last clinic follow-up and/or by telephone interview. The primary outcome measure was the achievement of seizure freedom for a minimum period of 6 months. Questions were asked concerning adverse effects during treatment with levetiracetam. Treatment was started following a single or prolonged seizure with electroencephalogram (EEG) findings supportive of a diagnosis of epilepsy, or following recurrent seizures with a supportive or normal EEG. Patients could have been treated with medications emergently for seizures prior to starting levetiracetam. Patients who had been treated previously with a maintenance antiepileptic drug were not included. Parents or caregivers were specifically asked if they had noted changes in behavior or other adverse events. Results: 82 children between the ages of 10 months and 17 years of age (mean 6.0 years) were identified who were treated initially with levetiracetam monotherapy for epilepsy. There were 46 males and 36 females. Seizure freedom was achieved for a period of at least 6 months in 70 patients (85.4%). Twelve patients were considered treatment failures due to peristent seizures in eight, or discontinuation of medication due to adverse effects in four (worsened behavior in 2, ataxia in 1, and rash in 1). The total dose ranged from 200 to 3000 mg per day and was divided bid. In the group with controlled seizures for a minimum of 6 months, the dose ranged from 10?36.9 mg/kg/day (mean 21.3 mg/kg/day). In the failure group, the dose ranged from 10.5?51.4 mg/kg/day (mean 25.0 mg/kg/day). There were no serious adverse events. Mild adverse events were reported in 24 patients (29.3%). Deterioration in behavior or mood was reported in 16 patients (19.5%). Behavioral problems resolved in 2 of 3 patients treated with pyridoxine, and in an additional 5 simply over time. Improved behavior was reported in one patient. Additional adverse events included sleepiness (1), dizziness (1), ataxia (1) and rash (1). Conclusions: Levetiracetam appears to be very effective and safe as initial monotherapy for children with epilepsy. Adverse effects are generally mild. Behavioral side effects were reported in almost 20% of patients, but only 2 patients discontinued the medication due to behavioral issues. Prospective evaluation of levetiracetam as monotherapy in children is warranted. 1 Silvia Vincentiis, 2 Clovis A. Silva, 2 Marilia Febronio, 2 Rosa Pereira, 3 Albertina Takiuti, 2 Maria Saito, and 1 Kette Valente ( 1 Psychiatry, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ; 2 Pediatrics, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ; and 3 Gynecology, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ) Rationale: Female adolescents with chronic disorders have their sexual-related issues ignored by health-related professionals and parents.It is assumed that sexual concerns do not represent a concern for these individuals.However, recent studies showed that adolescents with chronic conditions become sexually involved as their peers.The objective of the present study was to evaluate and compare the sexual behaviors,sexual orientation and pregnancy rates in female adolescents with epilepsy, a chronic stigmatizing condition and compared with female adolescents with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE),a visible and disabling disease,without stigma. Methods: A standard questionnaire was applied for consecutive 75 female adolescents,23 with epilepsy (G1) and 52 with SLE (G2), ages between 11 to 20 ys of age. All interviews were performed by the same physician with previous knowledge of the patients' clinical history and ancillary exams.Data regarding the 1st part of the questionnaire was obtained by direct interview addressing personal issues (social and economic class, age and schooling) and epilepsy data.The 2nd part of the questionnaire investigated gynecologic data (menarche,menstrual cycles,periodicity, dysmenorrhea,pregnancy,miscarriage,delivery,post-partum and newborn children.The 3rd and 4th parts addressed sexual behavior information and counseling, respectively. Results: G1 mean age was16.1 ys and in G2 mean age was 16.17 ys. Both groups did not present statistical differences for their demographic data, except for socio-economic-educational level.Mean age for menarche was later in G2 (12.8 ys) compared to G1 (11.6 ys) (p = 0.016).Age of the first sexual intercourse was similar in both groups.Nine patients (39.1%) out of the G1 were sexually active whereas 12 in G2(23.1%) were likewise (p = 0.1534). Mean sexual intercourse frequency per month was 2.8 in G1 and 4.3 in G2. Libido was reported by 71.4% in G1 and 100% reported attained orgasm. In G2,66.7% had libido and 50% reported orgasm (p = 0.0436).Regarding counseling, 72.7% from G1 and 83.3% from G2 reported contraceptive use,although most without appropriate orientation.Seven girls (63.6%) in G1 had at least one previous pregnancy, while only one (8.3%) in G2 had been pregnant (p = 0.0094). Conclusions: Although epilepsy is a chronic albeit not visible disorder, it is stigmatizing to the patient. On the other hand, SLE is a chronic, debilitating disorder.Despite that, questionnaire applied failed to produce a statistically difference in sexual-related behaviors between adolescents with lupus and epilepsy.Several sexual behavior landmarks were identical despite significant demographic social and academic differences. However, patients with epilepsy had a higher risk for unplanned pregnancies, suggesting that these patients have unmet counseling needs related to the stigma of this disorder. (Supported by FAPESP05/03527?3.) 1 Joan V. Skluzacek, and 2 Beverly S. Wical ( 1 Administration, IDEA League, Afton, MN ; and 2 Pediatric Neurology, Gillette Children's Specialty Healthcare, St. Paul, MN ) Rationale: Dravet syndrome is a devastating epileptic syndrome with onset very early in childhood. Major progress has been made in understanding the genetic foundation of the disorder; yet much work remains to identify co-morbid conditions commonly associated with Dravet's. Appropriate care of affected children must include identification and management of these disorders to permit optimal health and enhance our understanding of the disorder. Methods: Dravet syndrome is a rare disorder that makes systematic study of associated conditions difficult. The Dravet syndrome/SMEI Group, a support group for parents with affected children, is associated with the International Dravet syndrome Epilepsy Action League (IDEA League). At the time of data collection in 2005, 65 families participated in surveys. Not all familes answered each question. Participation was voluntary. Questions were chosen by group leaders to investigate whether other children had been affected by problems similar to their own. Questions were asked regarding: immune dysregulation and susceptibility to infections; growth, metabolic or endocrine disorders; and autism spectrum disorder. Despite the uncontrolled nature of data collection, trends emerged that are suggestive of significant co-morbid conditions occurring in the majority of children with Dravet's. Results: Of 61 respondents, 46 (75%) reported their children are prone to infection. Recurring/chronic otitis media, sinusitis, or bronchitis occurred in 50%. Fourteen of the 61 (23%) had been assessed by an immunologist, allergist, or infectious disease specialist. No child evaluated was found to have any specific immune deficiency. Thirty-eight of 61 (61%) reported their children had been assessed for endocrine, metabolic or absorbtion disorders. Mitochondrial disorders NOS had been diagnosed in 4/61 (6%). All 61 reported their children have difficulty regulating body temperature. The majority of children (38/61?61%) are underweight. Autism spectrum disorder was of concern to 35 (78%) of the 44 that responded to questions about behaviors. Autism has been diagnosed in 24% of these children. An additional 49% of children have autistic traits. 100% have communication disorders. Conclusions: Intractable epilepsy, significant cognitive impairment, and movement abnormalities are well recognized in Dravet's Syndrome. Our preliminary data suggest aspects of the syndrome go well beyond these features. Careful investigation of associated disorders in immune regulation and infection is needed. Documentation of pattern of infections is needed to separate out a true increased incidence from an apparent increase (due to increased awareness of infection as seizure trigger). Growth and nutritional assessment should be part of each child's coordinated care. Specific evaluation for autism spectrum disorders seems indicated. Associated symptoms must be sought in a prospective way to facilitate understanding of the manifestations of this complex disorder. 1 Jürgen Sperner, 2 Ingrid Tuxhorn, and 3the German Pediatric VNS Study Group ( 1 Neuropediatric Department, University Clinic Schleswig-Holstein, Lübeck, Germany ; 2 Betriebsstätte Krankenhaus Mara, Krankenhaus Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 3 Neuropediatric Department, University Clinic Schleswig-Holstein, Lübeck, Germany ) Rationale: Pharmacoresistant epilepsy is a serious burden in approximately 20% of children with seizures. Nonpharmacologic, adjunctive treatments like the ketogenic diet and vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) Therapy are helpful, although our knowledge of their long-term efficacy in children still remains limited. Methods: We evaluated the long-term outcome (up to 24 months) of VNS Therapy in severely disabled children and adolescents with pharmacoresistant epilepsy in a multicenter, prospective, open label, non-randomized trial. From a total of 156 patients (58% male), 90% had learning disabilities and 89% developmental delay. Median age at implantation was 10 years (range, 2.5?18), and 89 patients (57%) were younger than 12 years. Median age at onset of epilepsy was 1 year (range, 0?12). Median duration of epilepsy was 7.8 years (range, 1.6?18). Epileptic syndromes were diagnosed in 53% of the patients; acquired lesions in 23%; and genetic syndromes in 5%. Etiology was unknown in 19% of the patients. Before VNS Therapy, 60% of the patients were evaluated for epilepsy surgery, and 14% were operated (2 callosotomies, 17 lobectomies and 3 other types of epilepsy surgery). Patients were eligible after failure of at least 5 AEDs, and were evaluated at baseline and at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after implantation. Efficacy and safety results, magnet use and quality of life (QoL) data were analyzed. Results: A total of 75 patients (48.1%) had 24 months follow-up. Seizure reductions ≥ 50% occurred in 32% of the patients after 3 months, and in 51% after 24 months follow-up (p = 0.01). Compared to baseline, there was a statistically significant seizure reduction at every follow-up interval (p = 0.0001). In most cases, side effects were well tolerated and could be minimized by reducing pulse width or stimulation frequency. Between 8% and 12% of the patients reported that the magnet was ?always? or ?most of the time? effective in aborting or reducing the intensity and/or duration of their seizures. Decreasing magnet effects were observed over time, except in a small group of patients (10%) where constantly satisfactory magnet effects were reported. More than 50% of the patients had improvements in alertness. Conclusions: These results demonstrate the outstanding long-term efficacy of VNS Therapy in this population of young and severely disabled children and adolescents with up to 24 months follow-up. VNS Therapy was also well tolerated and associated with QoL improvements. 1 Tammy L. Still, 1 Jodie R. Niosi, 1 Neetu K. Singh, 1 Nancy Thornton, 1 Elaine C. Wirrell, and 1 Lorie D. Hamiwka ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Witnessing seizures can be frightening for both onlookers and families. There is often a fear of death or permanent brain damage. The goal of this study was to explore the responses of families to a suspected first seizure event. Methods: A prospective cohort of 127 consecutive children with a probable first seizure referred the Alberta Children's Hospital between 01/01/2004 and 30/08/2005 were invited to participate in the study. One hundred and four families agreed. The database for the study was created prior to its initiation. Families were interviewed prior to the visit with the epileptologist and were asked open ended questions and their responses recorded. Information was documented with regards to: How parents felt at the time of the first seizure, where they went for information and the kind of resources they used, and their perceptions regarding the impact of the first seizure on the relationship with their child. Results: Seventy-four percent of children were diagnosed with epileptic events, 24% with non-epileptic events and in 2% the events were unclassifiable. Responses were similar between epileptic and non-epileptic families. The majority of parents described their responses to their child's first seizure as ?scared,??terrified,??panicked,??helpless,? feeling ?useless,??confused,??very upset,??horrible,??anxious,??shocked,??worried,??frightened,??stressed,? and ?freaked out.? One third of the families did not seek further information after their child's event; 24 (23%) relied solely on oral or written information provided by health care providers (emergency physicians, family physicians, pediatricians, paramedics, and nurses), 11 parents (11%), relied on information from the internet, 4 (4%) used library and text books, and 8 (8%) asked family and friends. Twenty-two (21%) used a combination of sources. Sixty-seven (64%) of the parents reported that the relationship between the parent and child changed. Conclusions: A presumed first seizure is clearly an emotional event for families and onlookers. A significant proportion of families did not seek further information regarding their child's event. The most common single source of information for families is health care providers. Over two thirds of families reported providing closer supervision of their children and restriction of activities. 1 Richard Tang-Wai, 1 Prakash Kotagal, 2 Ann Warbel, 1 Elaine Wyllie, and 2 William Bingaman ( 1 Neurology, Pediatric Epilepsy and Sleep Disorders, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: There is limited experience with the use of bitemporal depth electrodes in children with refractory epilepsy. We report our experience in 10 children with temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent EEG monitoring with bitemporal depth electrodes to evaluate its role in seizure localization and correlate with information from other modalities. Methods: Patients were identified from the epilepsy surgery database and a systematic, retrospective chart review was carried out of children with temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent bitemporal depth electrode evaluation between 1990 and 2005. Variables analyzed included (1) patient age at initial seizure and at time of surgery; (2) post-operative follow-up period; (3) seizure semiology; (4) ictal and interictal findings on scalp EEG; (5) brain imaging; (6) the indication for depth electrodes; (7) depth electrode interical and ictal findings; (8) type of surgery performed; (9) surgical pathology; and (10) seizure outcome. Results: Ten children (6 females) underwent bitemporal depth electrode evaluation. Only 1 of these patients underwent a simultaneous subdural grid evaluation. Indications for invasive evaluation included: (1) evidence of bitemporal EEG seizure patterns without localizing seizure semiology (7 patients); (2) possible neocortical onset (1 patient); (3) EEG focus and lesion incongruence (1 patient); (4) non localizable EEG ictal pattern with a lesional MRI (1 patient). Nine children (ages 11?18 years) underwent focal resection: 8 had standard anterior temporal lobectomy with resection of mesial temporal structures. The post-operative follow-up period ranged from 3 months to 26 months (mean 14.6 months). Of these, 8 remain seizure free (Engel I) and 1 patient remains refractory (Engel IV). This latter patient had a normal MRI and was found to have a lateral temporal focus; he underwent surgical resection of the superior temporal structures. The patient who did not undergo surgery was found to seizures arising independently from either temporal region without clear side predominance. Six patients were found to have hippocampal sclerosis on pathology. Conclusions: Bitemporal depth electrodes are useful diagnostic tools for children with temporal lobe epilepsy and unclear seizure localizations. In conjunction with imaging data, their use has been successful in achieving excellent surgical outcomes in the pediatric population. 1 Silvia Vincentiis, 2 Clovis Silva, 2 Maria I. Saito, and 1 Kette D. Valente ( 1 Psychiatry, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ; and 2 Pediatrics, USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ) Rationale: Knowledge obtained with women with epilepsy is used to understand adolescents with epilepsy (AWE). Therefore, it is assumed that AWE have decreased libido, more anovulatory cicles and higher infertility rates. The purpose of the present study was to analyze sexuality in AWE. We also intended to evaluate whether the counseling received by these patients met their needs. Methods: We included AWE, from 10 to 20 ys, with the diagnosis of epilepsy, according to ILAE guidelines. Patients were enrolled in a standard questionnaire. All interviews were applied by the same physician with a previous knowledge of the patients' epilepsy history and ancillary exams. Data regarding the first part of the questionnaire was obtained by direct interview addressing personal issues (social and economic class, age, schooling) and epilepsy data. The second part referred to gynecologic data, such as age of menarche, menstrual cycles, periodicity, dysmenorrhea, pregnancy, miscarriage, delivery, post-partum and newborn children. The third and fourth parts consisted of a self-applicable questionnaire, addressing sexual behavior information and counseling, respectively. Results: Twenty-four AWE were enrolled in this study. The mean age was 15.9 ys. Epilepsy onset occurred during adolescence in 18 (75%) and in 6 (25%) during childhood. Four (15.3%) had focal symptomatic epilepsy, 15 (57.7%) focal cryptogenic and 5 (27%) had idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Sixteen (61.5%) patiens were under monotherapy. Mean age of menarca was 11.7 ys. Eight (32%) patients had irregular menstrual cycles. Eleven patients (42.3%) used folinic acid. Nine (34.6%) AWE were sexually active. Mean age of the first intercourse was 14.6 ys. Seven (77.7%) AWE had an unplanned pregnant and in 3, it was recurrent. Two patients became pregnant during the study.Miscarriage occurred in 2.A suspected abortion occurred in 1 patient.One newborn had a post-natal death. Regarding counseling, school was responsible for orientation for sexual activity and contraception in 8 cases (30.7%) and gynecologists in 3 (11.5%). One patient was guided by the neurologist and another by a health professional. Contraceptive methods were used by 8 patients, only 4 with appropriate guidance. From the contraceptive methods used: 7 patients used preservative in all intercourses, 1 used preservatives sporadically and none used oral contraceptives. Seven (26,9%)AWE received no counseling. Conclusions: Adolescents with epilepsy have active sexual life, despite their disease. As a result, they suffer consequences from an unconcealed sexual activity with unplanned pregnancies. It is interesting that these patients have more access to physicians than normal adolescents. However, they have less counseling, which is probably related to the fact that patients with chronic diseases are assumed as non-sexually actives. Sexual aspects and contraception requires special attention by the specialists attending adolescents with epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP05/03309?6.) 1 Roy Wade, and 2 Richard P. Morse ( 1 Department of Pediatrics and Neurology, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH ; and 2 Department of Pediatrics and Neurology, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH ) Rationale: Pyridoxine dependent seizures are rare, with fewer than 150 cases reported worldwide. The diagnosis has been difficult to confirm and has required a challenge-rechallenge approach in the past. Recently the genetic basis has been described as well as biochemical markers that may be used to confirm the suspected diagnosis in the newborn period. In the literature of this rare disorder, seizures are often described as generalized tonic-clonic. Methods: We report a case of confirmed pyridoxine-dependent seizures in a newborn and an analysis of the seizures with video-EEG correlation. We describe the confirmation of the diagnosis by measurement of serum pipecolic acid. Results: The infant's clinical presentation was dominated by early onset irritability/encephalopathy within a few hours of delivery, and seizures which began at 22 hours of life. Seizures were described as generalized tonic-clonic by the neonatologists but on close analysis of video-EEG were either R or L-sided during clinical clonic seizures. In addition to clonic seizures, the infant had myoclonic, ?shuddering? events associated with generalized EEG discharges but these too had a hemispheric predominance. The baby had a rapid resolution of the encephalopathy with a single dose of pyridoxine 50 mg. Diagnosis was confirmed by measurement of serum pipecolic acid. Conclusions: Pyridoxine-dependent seizures are a rare occurrence and are described in the literature as generalized tonic-clonic events in the majority of infants. Close analysis of video-EEG suggests that these are not generalized tonic-clonic seizures but partial seizures. Encephalopathy is an underemphasized feature and may obscure seizures or precede them. Rapid and reliable diagnosis can be accomplished with measurement of serum markers for the disorder, which remain elevated even after treatment. Genetic testing will be available in the near future as well. Outcome can depend on early identification and treatment and a low threshold for an empiric trial of pyridoxine in neonatal seizures should continue to be our practice. 1 Ozge U. Soyuer, 2 Guzide Turanli, 2 Dilek Yalnizoglu, 2 Emel E. Bakar, and 2 Meral Topcu ( 1 Deptartment of Pediatrics, Hacettepe University Medical Faculty, Ankara, Turkey ; and 2 Deptartment of Pediatrics, Section of Pediatric Neurology, Hacettepe University Medical Faculty, Ankara, Turkey ) Rationale: This prospective study was performed to classify absence seizures in childhood with respect to seizure semiology and epilepsy syndrome, and evaluate treatment and outcome. Methods: Patients were referred to our pediatric neurology clinic with a diagnosis of absence epilepsy based on clinical and/or EEG features. Initial evaluation included detailed history obtained from parents, physical and neurological examination, and routine EEG, followed by video-EEG monitoring, neuroimaging, and psychometric analysis. Patients were followed up at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after initiation of antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment. Results: 32 patients were studied. Age at initial symptom ranged between 10 months-15 years 5 months (mean: 8 years 9 months ± 4 years 1 month). Age at the time of diagnosis ranged between 5 years 2 months-15 years 6 months. Neuroimaging studies were available in 30 patients, 29 patients had MRI (9 were abnormal) and one had CT. Psychometric analysis was available in 17 patients and showed normal IQ results; they did not show a significant difference at follow up. Video-EEG monitoring was available in 23 patients; a total of 202 ictal recordings were obtained. 25 patients had typical absence seizures (TAS); they were classified as childhood absence epilepsy (n:8), juvenile absence epilepsy (n:10), juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (n: 3), eyelid myoclonia with absences (n:2), perioral myoclonia with absences (n:1), diffuse epileptic EEG with eye closure (n:1). The remaining 7 patients without TAS were diagnosed with symptomatic/cryptogenic absence epilepsy (n: 6) and benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (n:1). 27 patients were followed for 1?17 months (mean:7,8 months), 5 had shorter follow-up periods. One patient showed poor compliance and dropped out of study at 6 months. Otherwise all patients with TAS were reportedly seizure-free and showed EEG improvement. 19 patients were started on an AED for the first time, others received add on therapy. 53.1% of the patients were on valproate, 34.4% were on ethosuximide, 9.4% were on lamotrigine, and 3.1% were on clobazam. Conclusions: Clinical evaluation, including history, physical examination, and routine EEG along with neuroimaging studies, provide major clues in the diagnosis of absence epilepsy. However video-EEG monitoring with ictal recordings are essential for precise subclassification of patients with absence seizures. Correct classification of seizures and epilepsy syndromes are crucial in determining treatment plans and prognosis. (Supported by the Hacettepe University Research Fund (01 G 010, PI: Meral Topcu). D.Y. is supported by NIMH ICORTHA Fogarty International Center Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities Research Training Program (D43TW05807) at Children's Hospital Boston, PI: Kerim M. Munir.) 1 Mi-Sun Yum, 2 Jung Kyo Lee, 3 Su Jeong You, 4 Deok-Soo Kim, and 1 Tae-Sung Ko ( 1 Department of Pediatrics, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea ; 2 Department of Neurosurgery, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea ; 3 Department of Pediatrics, Epilepsy Center, Inje University College of Medicine, Sang-gye Paik Hospital, Seoul, Korea ; and 4 Pediatrics, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: In spite of multiple treatment modalities, the outcome has been known as very poor in Lennox-Gastaut syndrome patients. We have tried callosotomy in pediatric Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and Lennox-like syndrome patients and have got successful outcomes. But some patients showed no response. We analyzed the preoperative EEG, pathologic findings and extent of callosotomy in order to identify any relationship with the postoperative outcome of seizure. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed 26 patients (19 male patients; mean age at callosotomy, 6.8 years) who were managed as Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (n = 22) and Lennox-like syndrome (n = 4) at Asan Medical Center from Apr.1993 to Dec, 2005. All the patients had multiple seizure types and mental retardation. The EEG shows generalized spike and slow waves (GSSW) or general paroxysmal fast activities (GPFA) in patients of LGS and intermittent multi-focal spike discharges (IMSD) in patients with Lennox-like syndrome. All of them were refractory to antiepileptic drugs or ketogenic diet. Pre- and post-callosotomy seizure counts were obtained from monthly diary annotation by the family or caregivers at 1, 6 and 12 months. Results: Seizure freedom over 1 year was noted in 6 patients of 26 patients (23.1%). Mean seizure reduction rate at 1, 6 and 12 months were 74.8%, 62.2%, 58.4% respectively. The existence of family history of epilepsy, abnormal findings on brain MRI, past history of infantile spasms or febrile convulsions had no effect on seizure outcomes after callosotomy. In preoperative EEGs, 19 of 26 patients (73.1%) had generalized slow spike and wave discharges, and others have only GPFA or IMSD. Patients with GSSW discharges achieved significantly better post-operative seizure outcomes at 1 month follow-up (p < 0.05). But no outcome difference was observed between these groups at 6 and 12 months' outcomes. The patients with total callosotomy showed better seizure reduction than patients with partial callosotomy, but the difference did not reach statistical significance (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Though we had got relatively successful outcomes after callosotomy in LGS and Lennox-like syndrome patients, we could not find any predictive indicator for better final surgical outcomes. The existence of GSSW in preoperative EEG may predict immediate postoperative outcomes only. Further studies should be required to know the predictive factors for post-callosotomy outcomes in LGS patients. 1 Guojun Zhang, 1 YogendraSinh H. Raol, and 1,2 Amy R. Brooks-Kayal ( 1 Division of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Pediatrics and Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Development of spontaneous seizure following prolonged status-epilepticus (SE) is age dependent and a number of molecular and morphological changes occur following SE have been suggested to contribute to development of spontaneous seizures. Astrogliosis is one such prominent feature of epileptic brain and may play an important role in epileptogenesis. In the present study, we assessed the effect of prolonged SE induced at different ages on GFAP mRNA expression in dentate gyrus (DG). Methods: SE was induced in P10, P20 and adult rats using either lithium/pilocarpine (Li/Pilo) or kainic acid (KA). One, seven and 21 days after SE induction, rats were sacrificed and GFAP mRNA expression was examined in acutely dissected DG using antisense RNA amplification (aRNA) technique. Results: GFAP mRNA expression in DG was increased 3 fold in the adult rats 7 days after Li/Pilo-induced SE and remained high at 21 days. In P20 rats, GFAP mRNA expression was increased 2 fold 1 day after SE and 3 fold 7 days after Li/Pilo or KA induced SE. In contrast, in P10 rats, GFAP mRNA expression did not change at any time point (1 and 7 days) studied following KA induced SE. Conclusions: This study shows that GFAP mRNA expression in DG after SE is age dependent but not model specific. Further, as increase in GFAP occurs prior to and in association with development of epilepsy after SE, these findings support the hypothesis that astrogliosis may be related to epileptogenesis. (Supported by NIH NS38595 to ABK.) 1 Sameer M. Zuberi, 2 Rachael Birch, 2 Louise Conlin, and 2 Susan A.R. Stenhouse ( 1 Fraser of Allander Neurosciences Unit, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom ; and 2 Duncan Guthrie Institute of Medical Genetics, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Mutations in the SCN1A gene are associated with severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy (SMEI) and several related epilepsy phenotypes commencing in early infancy. These infantile epilepsies are typically refractory to standard anti-epileptic medication (AED) and may result in an epileptic encephalopathy with progressive cognitive impairment. Syndrome specific reports have suggested three medications or combinations which may be helpful. These are sodium valproate and topirimate, the bromides and stiripentol. Certain medications may exacerbate symptoms such as myoclonus. In November 2005 a service looking for mutations in SCN1A was established in our institution. Our aim was to determine if knowledge of a child's mutation status influenced prescription patterns. Methods: This service was available in Scotland at inception and UK wide in May 2006. SCN1A has 26 exons (7848bp) which are amplified in 40 fragments. A pre-screen is performed using Conformational Sensitive Capillary Electrophoresis (CSCE) and fragments containing apparent changes are sequenced. A detailed pre-test questionnaire helps us to attempt a syndromic classification. A joint molecular genetic and paediatric epileptology report is issued. Results: To date we have tested and reported on 51 casese of infantile onset epilepsy and selected parents. To date all 5 cases of classical SMEI have identified mutations. 1/2 cases of SMEB have mutations and one child with a focal epilepsy has a mutation. All mutations are de novo. 5 individuals have had their medication altered as a result of the analysis. There is clinical improvement in 3 to date with reduction in seizure frequency and increased levels of alertness. Follow up is too short to comment on call cases. Conclusions: Identification of a mutation not only allows a family of a child with a devastating epilepsy to begin to understand why their child is affected but also allows consideration of medication changes both specific additions and withdrawals. Appropriate medication can reduce seizure frequency, potentially ameliorating the epileptic encephalopathy therefore reducing the acquired learning disability. This may be particulaly relevant to the young infant with suspected SMEI and frequent seizures who does not yet fulfill all the syndrome criteria. Prospective studies are ongoing with the use of the detailed questionnaire to determine phenotype and target testing to the most appropriate cases. (Supported by: Muir Maxwell Trust purchased the gene sequencer used for the analysis.) 1 Ebru A. Dogan, 1 Rengin Bilgen, 1 Burcu Ekmekci, and 1 Berrin Aktekin ( 1 Neurology, Akdeniz University School of Medicine, Antalya, Turkey ) Rationale: To assess the effectiveness, tolerability and side effects of oxcarbazepine (OXC) in adult epilepsy patient population. Methods: A total of 194 (108 male, 17?81years) patients, 139 new-onset epilepsy, were studied. The demographic variables, reasons and date of OXC administration and/or cessation of the drug, dosages and seizure outcomes (total seizure freedom, partial improvement or poor seizure control) were recorded. The approximate follow-up period was 25.6 months (minimum 3, maximum 144 months). Mean administered dose of oxcarbazepine was 951.03 ± 349 miligrams. 164 patients (84.5%) received OXC as monotherapy and 30 patients (15.5%) were add on a second antiepileptic drug because of poor seizure control despite maximum tolerable dose of first antiepileptic drug. Patients were divided into 3 subgroups; symptomatic, cryptogenic and unclassified. Symptomatic group consisted of ischeamic or hemorrhagic cerebrovascular diseases, central nervous system infections (menengitis/meningoencephalitis), intracerebral tumours, cortical development abnormalities, mesial temporal sclerosis and post-traumatic etiologies. 116 patients (59.8%) were in the symptomatic group, 67 patients were in the cryptogenic group (34.5%) and 11 patients were in the unclassified group (5.7%). Results: When the efficacy is considered; total seizure remission was achieved at 149 patients (76.8%), number of patients with > 50% seizure decrease was 29 (14.9%), number of patients with partial remission was 8 (4.1%) and number of patients with no response was 8 (4.1%). OXC dosage was decreased or ceased at 29 patients for several reasons. Reasons for cessation were; symptomatic hyponatremia (n = 3), liver enzyme abnormalities (n = 7), severe anaflactic reactions (n = 2), intolerability of the patient due to dizziness, somnolans, nausea and/or vomitting (n = 7), additional medication need for concomittant medical problems which may interfere with OXC (n = 4) and pregnancy (n = 6). Conclusions: OXC provides a remarkable efficacy for seizure control or significant improvement with ignorable and rare side effects. 1 Mohammad S. Al-Humayyd ( 1 Pharmacology, College of Medicine, Riyadh, Central, Saudi Arabia ) Rationale: The objective of this study was to characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of carbamazepine (CBZ) in adult Saudi epileptic patients in order to improve on dosing schedules. Methods: One hundred and fifty two steady- state serum CBZ concentration measurements were collected during normal routine care of 76 patients receiving CBZ (100?1000 mg/day) in monotherapy. Steady- state trough CBZ serum concentrations, CBZ dosing history and associated information were collected prospectively. Data were analyzed by the non- linear mixed- effect modeling (NONMEM) technique with a one- compartmental model of first- order absorption and elimination. The apparent clearance (CL/F) and apparent volume of distribution (V/F) and their inter-individual variabilities were estimated using the program. Results: The population estimates for clearance (CL; modeled independently of dose) and volume of distribution were 12.6 ± 0.5 l/h and 535 ± 40 l, respectively. However, CL increased as a function of dosing rate and consequently was modeled as a linear function of steady- state concentration. In order to validate these results, the predictions of the population model were tested against data from 14 further patients subjected to the same inclusion criteria but who were not included in the original analysis. The predictions were good, being unbiased (p = 0.29), and had an average deviation from the observed values of 16%. Conclusions: The observed covariate regression model reasonably predicted concentrations in the separate validation Saudi patient data set. The correlation between CBZ clearance and patient- specific characteristics may thus allow dosage adjustment to be made to achieve target steady- state plasma concentrations. (Supported by: This study was funded by King Saud University (KSU), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Ethical clearance permission to conduct this study was obtained from the Ethics Committee of the College of Medicine, KSU and written consent was obtained from all patients.) 1 Luis Almeida, 2 Amílcar Falc?o, 1 Joana Maia, 1 Manuel Vaz-da-Silva, and 1 Patrício Soares-da-Silva ( 1 Department of Research and Development, BIAL (Portela  and 2 4Health Limited, Cantanhede, Portugal ) Rationale: Eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL), formely known as BIA 2?093, is a new CNS-active drug currently in development for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder. This study aimed to investigate the steady-state pharmacokinetics of ESL once-daily (qd) and twice-daily (bid) regimens in healthy subjects. Methods: Single centre, open-label, randomised, crossover study in 12 (6 males and 6 females) healthy volunteers. The study consisted of 8-day treatment periods separated by a washout period of 10?15 days. On each treatment period, the volunteers received either an oral dose of ESL 900 mg qd or ESL 450 mg bid. Results: ESL was extensively and rapidly metabolized to eslicarbazepine (S-licarbazepine, BIA 2?194), the main active metabolite. Plasma levels of the parent drug (ESL) were systematically below the limit of quantification of the assay. Following the last dose of the 8-day ESL 900 mg qd and 450 mg bid regimens, the eslicarbazepine pharmacokinetic parameters are presented in Table 1. 1 Eslicarbazepine pharmacokinetic parameters following ESL 900 mg qd and ESL 450 mg bid Dosage regimen Cmax (ng/mL) tmax (h) AUCτ (ng.h/mL) t1/2 (h) ESL 900 mg qd 22210 (7257) 3.0 (1.5?4.0) 294019 (58364) 9.12 (1.19) ESL 450 mg bid 16667 (3981) 2.0 (1.0?2.0) 142080 (25933) 9.17 (1.49) Cmax? maximum observed plasma concentration; tmax ? time to Cmax; AUCτ? are under the curve of plasma concentrations versus time during the dosing interval (24 h and 12 h in case of the qd and bid regimens, respectively); t1/2 ? apparent elimination half-life. Results are expressed as arithmetic means with the corresponding standard deviations (SD) in parentheses. tmax values are median with range values in parentheses The rate of systemic exposure to eslicarbazepine, as assessed by Cmax, was 33% higher following ESL 900 mg qd in comparison with ESL 450 mg bid. Extent of systemic exposure to eslicarbazepine during a 24-h interval, as assessed by comparing the AUCτ of the ESL 900 mg qd regimen (AUC0?24h) with 2 times the AUCτ of the ESL 450 mg bid regimen (2 x AUC0?12h), was 3% higher following ESL 900 mg qd in comparison with ESL 450 mg bid. Incidence and characteristics of treatment-emergent adverse events or drug-related adverse events were similar with both treatment alternatives. Conclusions: The extent of exposure to eslicarbazepine during a 24-h interval was similar following ESL 900 mg qd and ESL 450 mg bid regimens, but the rate of exposure was 33% higher following ESL 900 mg qd in comparison with ESL 450 mg bid. Tolerability was similar between qd and bid regimens. (Supported by BIAL (Portela  STD 10.4). Weight ranged from 43?146 kg (Mean 84 kg; STD 29). A morbidly obese patient weighing 146 kg (IBW 70 kg) also received LEV via NGT and had a two hour serum concentration of 23 ?g/mL. All patients in the EMU were alert before and after load and reported no adverse events. No patients on the EMU had any seizure within 24 hours after load. LEV was well-tolerated in the ICU patients hemodynamically. All were obtunded prior to addition of LEV. Conclusions: Our data suggest that serum concentrations of LEV typical for the treatment of epilepsy may be obtained rapidly and safely after a 1500 mg loading in adults with epilepsy. These data also suggest that oral loading may be used to hasten discharge from the EMU or as adjunctive therapy in status epilepticus though additional study is needed. Loading dose also achieved a therapeutic level in morbid obesity consistent with the high water solubility of the drug. 1 Gennaro Barbato, 1 Pasquale Alfieri, 1 Rossana Arlomede, 2 Giacomo Visco, and 3 Annamaria M. Terracciano ( 1 Neurologia, ASLNA1, Napoli, Napoli, Italy ; 2 Neurologia, ASLNA5, Sorrento, Napoli, Italy ; and 3 Neuropsichiatria, Clinica SantaMaria Del Pozzo, Somma Vesuviana, Napoli, Italy ) Rationale: Epilepsy in the elderly is often cryptogenic and the seizure occor without a defined provoking factor or a remote or current neurological pathology clinically or instrumentally evident.Aim of this open label trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of low doses of Levetiracetam as monotherapy in elderly patients with cryptogenic epilepsy. Methods: 14 patients more 60 years old (mean age 68 years) with newly diagnosis of cryptogenic epilepsy have been enrolled in the study, with at least 2 seizures before entering the study. 10 out 14 had CPC, 4 out 14 had GTCS. 8 patients received 1000 mg/die (500 ? 2) of LEV starting with 250 mg/die for a week, uptitrared of 250 mg of everyweek up to 1000 mg/die; 6 patients received 2000 mg/die. Every 3 months all patients performed a visit to access efficacy and safety through neurological examination,seizure diary,EEG,complete blood test, MMSE,SF12,NPI. 8 patients suffered from hypertension, 4 patients fron diabets and 2 osteoporosis. Results: After follow-up of 12 months all patients were seizure free: 8 patients at 1000 mg/die and 6 patients needed for a higher dose(to 2000 mg/die). After LEV treatment, all patients showed an improvement in quality of life as the level of autonomy and relationships is increased. LEV was well tolerated without any interaction with others concomitants treatments. Sonnolence,dizziness,headache,agitation and irritability, all mild and temporary(few days). All patients completed the Study. Conclusions: Levetiracetam as monotherapy showed a good efficacy and safety for Cryptogenic Epilepsy in the Elderly,even at low doses,without interactions with others concomitant therapies and without persistent side effects. 1 Michel J. Berg, and 1 Robert A. Gross ( 1 Strong Epilepsy Center, University of Rochester School of Medicine, Rochester, NY ) Rationale: Issues surrounding the substitution of generic anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) in the US are not fully understood. In addition, current experiences of US physicians have not been thoroughly examined. Here, views of patients and physicians toward generic substitution of AEDs and insights into physicians' current experiences across the US are reported. Methods: Online-based surveys were carried out with 550 adult patients diagnosed with epilepsy and 606 physicians treating epilepsy from the US. Results: The efficacy of generic AEDs was a concern to 75% of physicians and 65% of patients. The vast majority (90%) of physicians agreed that generic substitution of a controlled patients' regular, effective AED may cause the onset of breakthrough seizures. Fully 65% of physicians reported that they had had a patient experience a breakthrough seizure caused by a switch from a branded to a generic AED. Additionally, one-third (34%) of patients think that substitution with a generic AED is linked to breakthrough seizures. Almost two-thirds (62%) of patients surveyed and 75% of physicians surveyed were aware that pharmacists may substitute a branded AED for a generic without physician consent. But less than half (43%) of physicians were aware of mandatory generic substitution laws for branded prescription medications. Eighty-one percent of patients and 87% of physicians agreed that the pharmacist should only be able to substitute an AED with a generic with physician consent. Half (53%) of physicians surveyed would be uncomfortable prescribing a generic medication to treat their patients' epilepsy. Over half of physicians (64%) and patients (57%), in general, prefer generic AEDs if there were a potential cost savings. Among those surveyed, fewer physicians (52%) and patients (44%) were concerned about efficacy of generic medications for acute care. Concerns about safety of generic AEDs existed amongst 56% physicians, compared with 40% for generic acute care medications. Ninety-four percent of patients would require at least a small amount of education or counseling from a healthcare professional if they were to switch their current AED for a generic. Conclusions: Both patients and physicians are concerned about the efficacy and safety of unrestricted generic AED substitution and nearly two-thirds of physicians reported that they had a patient experience a breakthrough seizure due to generic substitution. However, generic substitution practices are not well-understood by patients or by physicians. Physicians and patients recognize the cost savings of generic AEDs, but the perception that generic drugs are less effective may outweigh the cost benefit in many cases. The findings raise questions about the value of mandatory generic substitution requirements for medications with narrow therapeutic windows, such as AEDs. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Jean M. Bidlack, and 2 Harold H. Morris III ( 1 Pharmacology and Physiology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY ; and 2 Neurology, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT ) Rationale: To correlate the appearance of phenobarbital (PB) withdrawal seizures in a patient with a decrease in the number of GABAA receptors (GABAR) seen during PB withdrawal in PB-dependent rats. Methods: A patient, seizure-free for three years following removal of a cavernous angioma of her right anterolateral temporal lobe, had been taking PB for 11 years before surgery and was maintained on PB 150 mg/d for 3 years after surgery. The patient had a baseline of one psychic aura every two weeks. The decision was made to taper PB and to replace it with a non-inducing anti-epileptic drug. The patient kept accurate daily records of auras and seizures on a long-term continuous basis. Results: A gradual reduction of PB was started and lamotrigine (LTG) slowly titrated, but typical complex seizures occurred when PB taper reached 60 mg/d. Conversion to LTG failed because of rash. PB was increased back to 90 mg/d and levetiracetam (LEV) was initiated and titrated to a dose of 500 mg BID. PB was then reduced by 15 mg every three weeks. When the patient was on PB 45 mg/d and LEV 500 mg BID, the frequency of auras increased, and LEV was increased to 750 mg BID. Seizures appeared when the patient was on PB 30 mg/d and LEV 750 mg BID. During the first week after PB was stopped and the patient was on LEV 1000 mg BID, there were 4 seizures. The seizures continued for 3 weeks after PB was stopped. After this time, there were no additional seizures and the dose of LEV remained constant at 1000 mg BID. The patient experienced anxiety and insomnia during the slow PB taper. Conclusions: This case demonstrates a ?threshold? for PB withdrawal seizures at 45 to 60 mg/d and cessation of withdrawal seizures following PB discontinuation. At a dose of PB 90 mg/d, the patient had a plasma PB level of 11 mcg/ml. Assuming clearance did not change, withdrawal seizures appeared when the PB level was 5?8 mcg/ml. Withdrawal seizures were not controlled by LEV but ceased three weeks post complete withdrawal. Our data are explainable by a ?resetting? of her GABAR. [3H]Muscimol binding to GABAR in rat brain homogenates was reduced by 25% in withdrawing animals for up to 10 days after chronic PB exposure (Tanaka et al., 1991). Similarly, there was a decrease in the α1 subunit of the GABAR in rat pups that had been exposed to PB for 30 days (Raol et al., 2005). Attenuation in the number of GABAR during PB withdrawal may account for the presence of PB withdrawal seizures in a patient who had been seizure-free. Termination of the withdrawal seizures may be associated with a resetting of the levels and types of GABAR. [figure 1] 1 Leonilda Bilo, 2 Roberta Meo, 1 Patrizia Ruosi, 1 Maria Fulvia de Leva, 3 Roberto De Simone, and 1 Salvatore Striano ( 1 Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurological Sciences, Federico II University, Naples, Italy ; 2 Neurology Outpatients Service, Azienda Sanitaria Locale Napoli 1, Naples, Italy ; and 3 Department of Neurological Sciences, Federico II University, Naples, Italy ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to evaluate efficacy and safety of levetiracetam (LEV) in patients with epilepsy and chronic liver disease. Methods: Eleven patients with epilepsy and chronic liver disease entered the study. Eight suffered from Focal Epilepsy and three from Generalized Epilepsy. Liver disease consisted of HCV-related epatopathy in 6 cases (2 of whom had cirrhosis), HBV-related epatopathy in 4 (2 of whom with colesthasis) and porphyria cutanea tarda in 1. At study entry all patients were already treated with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in mono- or polytherapy; all had uncontrolled seizures. In all patients LEV was initially given as add-on therapy, with a slow titration. Contemporarily, the associated AED treatment was slowly reduced, resulting in complete withdrawal in 3 cases. A laboratory work-up, including blood count and evaluation of liver function, was serially performed during titration and follow-up; seizure frequency was also serially evaluated, considering as baseline frequency the mean seizure frequency reported in the 6 months preceding study entry. Results: Three patients dropped out of the study because of adverse effects (2 patients, with drop out during titration) or because of adverse effects and worsening of seizures (1 patient, during follow-up). All the remaining 8 patients were responders to LEV treatment in add-on or monotherapy, with a >50% reduction of seizure frequency in 6 cases and complete disappearance of seizures in 2. None of these 8 patients showed worsening of liver function during follow-up. In all these patients follow-up lasted at least 12 months. Conclusions: With the limitations due to the small number of patients, our study suggests that LEV may be a good choice for epileptic patients with liver disease. Due to the absence of liver metabolism, LEV can be employed in high dosages, resulting in improved seizure control without liver toxicity. 1 Eric Bourne, 1 Kevin Nanry, 2 Herndon Harding, 1 James Graham, 1 Jeremy Roberts, and 1 Robert Leadbetter ( 1 Psychiatry, GlaxoSmithKline, RTP, NC ; and 2 Psychiatry, Florida State University, Winter Park, FL ) Rationale: The current analysis evaluated changes in weight and body-mass index (BMI) in patients treated with lamotrigine in the presence and absence of concomitant valproate or antipsychotics. Methods: A post hoc analysis was conducted from a prospective, open-label study of lamotrigine in 1175 patients with bipolar I disorder designed to assess the rate of rash in patients with or without specific dermatological precautions. Lamotrigine was administered for 12 weeks, including a 5-week titration period (target dosage 200 mg/day). Weight and BMI was measured at baseline, week 5 and week 12 visits. Results: Baseline weight was statistically significantly higher in patients taking concomitant valproate versus without (199.1 ± 49.07 versus 184.7 ± 47.53 lb, p < 0.0001) and was statistically significantly higher in patients taking concomitant antipsychotics versus without (192.7 ± 47.31 versus 186.1 ± 48.48 lb, p < 0.05). Statistically significant changes in weight were not observed between treatment groups. Weight changes from baseline to week 12 were ?0.2 ± 6.82 lb with valproate, 0.0 ± 8.40 lb without valproate, ?0.4 ± 7.99 lb with antipsychotics, and 0.0 ± 8.14 lb without antipsychotics (p > 0.05 for all group comparisons). Statistically significant changes in BMI were not observed between treatment groups. BMI changes from baseline to week 12 were 0.0 ± 1.07 with valproate, 0.0 ± 1.41 without valproate, ?0.1 ± 1.34 with antipsychotics, and 0.0 ± 1.34 without antipsychotics (p > 0.05). Conclusions: These results are consistent with previous findings that lamotrigine is weight neutral in patients with bipolar disorder and suggest that lamotrigine may be given to patients with concomitant medications that are frequently associated with increased body weight without causing additional weight gain. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Richard Brannegan, 1 Serge J.C. Pierre-Louis, and 2 Arthur Evans ( 1 Division of Neurology, Stroger Hospital of Cook County, Chicago, IL ; and 2 Department of Medicine, Stroger Hospital of Cook County, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: After FDA approval of once-a-day DepakoteER for the treatment of epilepsy, the pharmacy at our county hospital stopped carrying delayed release Depakote(DR). Since the majority of our adult epilepsy out-patients obtain their medications at no cost from the hospital pharmacy, a cohort of patients were switched from Depakote(DR) to DepakoteER in a relatively short period of time. We monitored this group prospectively for changes in seizure frequency, medication adverse effects and preparation preference and now report those findings. Methods: At the patient's index visit, we obtained data on seizure frequency over the previous 6 months, as well as information about possible medication side effects (fatigue, GI upset, hair loss and weight change). Patients completed a scored 20 item questionaire about the effect, if any, of hand tremor on various daily activities and were asked to copy an Archimedes spiral. The patient was weighed. At this initial visit, Depakote(DR) was switched to DepakoteER (with an approximately 20% increase in total dose). The same information was obtained at 3 and 6 month follow-up visits. Change in seizure frequency was analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Before and after questions concerning specific side effects were analyzed using McNemar's test. Spirals were graded on a 1 to 5 scale (best to worst) by 2 trained, blinded raters. The pateints were asked which Depakote preparation they preferred and what schedule they actually used for DepakoteER. Results: Forty seven patients were enrolled. Thirty eight completed all 3 visits, 5 completed 2 visits and 4 were lost to follow-up after the initial evaluation. There was no significant change in seizure frequency in the 6 month period following the switch to DepakoteER (a non-significant trend for improvement in seizure frequency was observed, P = 0.08). Concerning side effects, before and after questions about fatigue, GI upset and hair loss indicated no change (p > 0.2) after the switch to DepakoteER. There was no significant weight change at 6 months (p = 0.4). Scoring of Archimedes spirals showed no significant change at 3 or 6 months. The questionaire about hand tremor in various activities showed significant improvement at 3 (p = 0.03) and 6 (p = 0.05) months using the paired T-test. Most patients (62%) preferred DepakoteER but more than a quarter used it more than once daily (10 twice, 2 three times a day). Conclusions: DepakoteER was as effective as Depakote(DR) for control of seizures. Side effect measurements were unchanged except for improvement in patients' perception of hand tremor in daily activities. Most patients preferred DepakoteER, though some continued to use BID or TID dosing. (Supported by Abbott Laboratories.) 1 Martin J. Brodie, 2 Pedro Gonzales, 1 Graeme J. Sills, 2 Stuart Parks, and 2 David Keating ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Division of Cardiovascular  and 2 Electrodiagnostic Imaging Unit, Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow, Lanarkshire, United Kingdom ) Rationale: This study was designed to differentiate between retinal dysfunction associated with vigabatrin (VGB) therapy and non-specific visual field defects in people with treated epilepsy. Methods: A total of 204 people with epilepsy were grouped according to antiepileptic drug therapy as follows: current VGB treatment (n = 56), previous VGB treatment (n = 49), current GABAergic treatment (no VGB exposure; n = 46) and current non-GABAergic treatment (no VGB exposure; n = 53). Groups were matched for age, sex, seizure-type, and seizure frequency. All patients underwent wide-field multifocal electroretinography (WF-mfERG)1, logMar visual acuity testing, colour vision assessment, static perimetry (Humphrey) and ISCEV standard electroretinography. Results: When assessed by static perimetry, bilateral visual field constriction was observed in 33 current-VGB patients (59%) and 21 of the previous VGB group (43%). However, clinically significant abnormalities were also demonstrated in 24 patients (24%) with no prior exposure to VGB. Assessment of retinal function by WF-mfERG revealed abnormal responses in 25 current VGB patients (48%) and 11 previous-VGB patients (22%), but none (0%) of the patients with no exposure to VGB. By way of comparison, 21 VGB-exposed patients (20%) demonstrated visual field abnormalities with no associated retinal dysfunction, whereas only 3 patients (3%) had demonstrable retinal dysfunction with no apparent visual field problems. Unlike with visual field abnormalities, the incidence of retinal dysfunction segregated according to median VGB drug load (dysfunction, n = 31, 9012g versus no dysfunction, n = 40, 5065g; p = 0.0035). There was no difference between groups in terms of visual acuity, colour vision and standard electroretinography assessments. Conclusions: Visual field abnormalities are common in the treated epilepsy population, irrespective of drug history. Bilateral concentric visual field constriction may be a surrogate clinical marker of the neuroretinal toxicity associated with VGB use, but its assessment by conventional static perimetry is neither sufficiently sensitive nor specific to reliably identify all affected individuals. Patients with current or previous exposure to VGB should be considered for WF-mfERG, which is more likely to reflect retinal toxicity associated with vigabatrin usage. (Supported by a research grant from the Chief Scientist Office, Scotland.) 1 Joyce A. Cramer, 2 Nancy A. Brandenburg, 3 Montserrat Vera-Llonch, 3 Gerry Oster, and 4 Xiao Xu ( 1 Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, West Haven, CT ; 2 Pfizer Inc, NY, NY ; 3 PAI Inc, Boston, MA ; and 4 Covance Inc, Gaithersburg, MD ) Rationale: To examine the perceived impact of seizure versus selected medication adverse effects (AE) in patients with partial-onset epilepsy. Methods: A cross-sectional survey was conducted with 201 adult patients with partial-onset epilepsy receiving 2+ antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and with 1+ seizure in the past year. Patients were asked to rate their health state by recording a number from 0 (worst) to 100 (best) based on their health today, hypothetical health if they were to experience a seizure today, and hypothetical health if they were to experience selected AEs today (incoordination, diplopia, dizziness, fatigue, weakness, headache, nausea, sleepiness, poor concentration, anomia). Decrements in health rating (HLTH) with a seizure today or an AE today were calculated as change from HLTH today. To contrast the relative impact of having a seizure to an AE, differences in decrements related to each AE (SZ-AE) were calculated. Higher positive SZ-AE values indicate a greater perceived decline in health status associated with experiencing a seizure; negative SZ-AE values indicate the AE negatively impacts health status more than a seizure does. Analyses were based on seizure frequency and recency. Results: Overall health status ratings declined as seizure frequency increased [mean (SD) HLTH: once/6?12 months 76.2 (18), once/1?3 months 73.3 (20), 1+/week 65.6 (21); p = 0.01]. Mean (SD) perceived decrements in HLTH with a seizure were greatest for patients with the least frequent seizures [once/6?12 months 37.3 (29), once/1?3 months 30.2 (27), 1+/week 21.2 (23); p = 0.001]; as well as for seizure recency [last seizure 4+ months ago 36.8 (28), 1 week-3 months ago 33.5 (30), within the past week 21.4 (20); p = 0.004]. Perceived decrements in HLTH associated with having a seizure compared to experiencing an AE (SZ-AE) differed significantly (p < 0.05 except for incoordination and weakness) across seizure recency groups. Among patients with last seizure 4+ months ago SZ-AE ratings were 10.1 ? 27.0, implying perception of a new seizure was much worse than an AE; with last seizure 1 week-3 months ago SZ-AE ratings were 1.3 ? 9.3, implying perception of seizure was somewhat worse than an AE; and with seizures within the past week SZ-AE ratings were ?3.2 to ?10.4, implying AE symptoms were more troublesome than seizures. Conclusions: Lack of seizure control is associated with decrements in health status. Patients perceived the effects of seizures and AEs differently. Patients with the least recent seizures may be most concerned with maintaining seizure control, while patients with more recent seizures are more sensitive to AED side effects, perhaps because their seizures remain uncontrolled. Our findings should help healthcare providers understand the risk-benefit concerns of patients when addressing the efficacy and AEs of AEDs. (Supported by Pfizer Inc.) 1 Alan Gevins, 2 Kimford J. Meador, 1 Linda K. McEvoy, 2 David W. Loring, 3 Patty G. Ray, and 1 Brynn M. Evans ( 1 San Francisco Brain Research Institute, SAM Technology, San Francisco, CA ; 2 Department of Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ) Rationale: The relative cognitive and neurophysiological effects of levetiracetam (LEV) and carbamazepine (CBZ) are uncertain. Methods: This study compared the effects of LEV and CBZ using a randomized, double-blind, two-period crossover design in healthy adults. Mean (SD) maintenance doses and blood levels were: LEV mean dose = 2000mg/day (0), LEV mean blood level = 32 mcg/ml (11); CBZ adjusted by blood level to a mean dose = 564 mg (110); CBZ mean blood level = 7.5 mcg/ml (1.5). The results of the primary outcome measures (i.e., 33 variables from 11 standard neuropsychological tests) have been previously reported in abstract form. In this abstract, we report the results of a cognitive neurophysiological test (CNT) of working- and episodic memory which included measures of EEG/EP, cognitive performance, and subjective effects (22 variables). Testing was done at screening, baseline pre-drug treatment, end of each maintenance phase (4 weeks), and end of each washout period after drug treatment. Results: 28 adults (mean age = 33; range = 18?51 years) completed the study. Relative to LEV and non-drug, CBZ produced both subjective and cognitive performance impairments. In addition, CBZ produced an increase in low frequency (<10Hz) EEG power and changes in ERP measures. Linear discriminant analysis revealed 100% sensitivity and specificity for detection of CBZ relative to either LEV or non-drug conditions using EEG neurophysiological measures; detection was less accurate when using neuropsychological variables from the CNT or from the original full neuropsychological battery. Conclusions: CBZ produces more untoward neuropsychological and neurophysiological effects than does LEV at the dosages and timeframes employed in this study. EEG neurophysiological measures improve detection of these effects. (Supported by: The cognitive neurophysiological component of this study was supported by a grant from the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Strokes to Dr. Gevins. The drug administration and neuropsych testing was supported by a grant from UCB Pharma to Dr. Meador.) 1 Michele M.F. Feleppa, 1 Pompilio P.D.C. De Cillis, and 1 Gennaro G.E. Esposito ( 1 Neurosciences, Hospital ?G. Rummo,? Benevento, Benevento, Italy ) Rationale: Levetiracetam (LEV) is a well-tolerated antiepileptic drug used worldwide as an adjunctive treatment in adult patients with partial-onset seizures. Its efficacy and tolerability were demonstrated in some pivotal clinical studies (1?2), and can be safely initiated at 2,000 mg daily without a titration period (3), but little data exist regarding its use in status epilepticus(SE). Methods: We describe a case of refractory SE requiring 9 days of pharmacological coma with subsequent excellent neurological recovery after adjunctive nasogastric LEV. On December 29th, 2005, a 25-years old man with SE presented to hour hospital. He had endotracheal intubation and admitted to the emergency unit. SE showed partial crisis as clonic and mioclonic crisis and tonic-clonic crisis. The patient had a post-surgery panhypopituitarism for craniopharyngioma and he had never had any convulsions. The treatment protocol started with midazolam 0.2 mg/kg/hour/die e.v. and phenobarbital (PB) 100 mg i.m. SE didn't stop and the day after PB was increased at 200 mg daily. On January 3th, midazolam was substituted with propofol 1 mg/ml i.v., PB was reduced at 100 mg/daily and sodium valproate (sVLP) 25 mg/Kg/daily i.v. was added but without success, so on January 5th, 2006, PB was stopped and nasogastric LEV 1000 mg three times daily, without titration, was added. Results: The patient showed a dramatic recovery when nasogastric LEV was added and while EEG performed on day 4th, showed polyspike-wave complex on left temporo-central-occipital derivations combined with slow activity and burst-suppressions of short duration (Fig.1a), EEG performed on day 11th, showed low amplitude polyspikes on left fronto-central derivations (Fig. 1b) and EEG updated on day 40th, showed no epileptiform activity (Fig. 1c). CT scan performed on day 10th (Fig. 1d), and MRI performed on January 3th, 2006 (Fig. 1f) and on January 27th, 2006 (Fig. 1g), showed no differences compared by an MRI performed on june 2005 (Fig. 1e). Conclusions: For our knowledge this is the first case of 3000 mg daily, without titration, nasogastric LEV treatment of refractory SE resistant at midazolam iv plus PB im and sVLP iv, at propofol iv plus sVLP. In fact only the LEV 3,000 mg daily added via nasogastric stopped dramatically status epilepticus. No significant adverse events were noted. In this case-report we showed that levetiracetam as add-on, had a rapid protection against clonic and mioclonic seizures. We conclude that adjunctive LEV should be considered for patients with status epilepticus unresponsive to initial therapy. [figure 1] 1 Lauren C. Frey, 1 Laura A. Strom, 1 Archana Shrestha, and 1 Mark C. Spitz ( 1 Neurology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ) Rationale: Specific withdrawal syndromes have been well-documented following the cessation of treatment with many drugs that affect the central nervous system, including barbiturates, benzodiazepines, tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Studies have investigated withdrawal symptoms associated with some of the older antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), but the existence of withdrawal syndromes associated with newer AEDs, including lamotrigine, has not yet been investigated. Methods: We reviewed the medication profiles of all patients seen by two of the authors at the University of Colorado epilepsy clinic in a six month period. Patients taking lamotrigine were identified and their charts reviewed for complaints of adverse effects of lamotrigine use. In addition, we reviewed the medication profiles of all patients seen in our epilepsy monitoring unit in the same six month period and identified those patients in whom lamotrigine had been decreased or stopped during the EMU admission. Results: We identified five clinic patients who complained of new psychological symptoms while taking lamotrigine. These symptoms included anxiety, emotional lability, irritability, feeling ?out of it? and having racing thoughts. In each case, these symptoms resulted in marked subjective distress and reliably occurred in the one to two hours before the patients were due to take their next dose of medication. All the patients were taking lamotrigine either once or twice a day. In addition, 29 of 84 consecutive EMU patients were taking lamotrigine, either alone or in combination therapy. Of those patients in whom only lamotrigine was withdrawn in the EMU, two complained of symptoms similar to those described by our clinic patients following their reduction in lamotrigine dose. These symptoms also caused notable patient distress. Conclusions: Withdrawal symptoms, although not widely reported in the literature, can occur in patients taking lamotrigine. This withdrawal syndrome consists largely of anxious feelings, irritability, and asthenia and can be very distressing to patients. Lamotrigine withdrawal symptoms can occur as an end-of dose phenomenon in the outpatient setting and can also complicate inpatient evaluation in the EMU setting. End-of-dose withdrawal from lamotrigine is a clinically significant adverse effect that can hamper successful treatment with this medication. Further study of withdrawal symptoms in this medication and the other newer AEDs is clearly needed. 1 Barry Gidal, 2 Jacqueline French, 3 Patricia Grossman, 4 Gwenael Le Teuff, and 5 Celine Bugli ( 1 School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI ; 2 School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ; 3 Global Outcomes Research, UCB, Atlanta, GA ; 4 Keyrus Biopharma, Levallois Perret, France ; and 5 LACO, Diegem, Belgium ) Rationale: While prevalence of antiepileptic drug/non-antiepileptic drug (AED) concomitant medication and interaction is described for elderly, few data exist regarding gender and age patterns of potentially clinically important PK interactions. Specifically, we report on prevalence of polytherapy across age and gender groups, but also describe patterns of cardiovascular and psychotropic drug. Methods: A retrospective cohort study was conducted in epilepsy patients using a US claims database (1/2001?12/2004). Patients were sub-grouped: enzyme inducing AEDs (EIAEDs) or non-inducing (NEIAEDs).Usage of concomitant medications taken during the six month after AED initiation was compared using Chi-squared tests for: Young Adults (YA)(18?34yo), Adults (A)(35?54), Older Adults (OA)(55?64), Young Old (YO)(65?74), Middle Old (MO)(75?84), Elderly (E)(85+). Results: A total of 9526 patients with epilepsy were identified: 6134 females and 3392 males; 5970 receiving EIAED and 3556 NEIAED. Overall, polytherapy was common and increased with age (table 1). Females are more likely to receive a concomitant medication regardless of AED use: EIAED (86%vs76%,p < 0.001); NEIAED (86%vs79%,p < 0.001). Compared to general population data (Sloan Survey, 2004), epilepsy patients in every age and gender group appeared to be significantly more likely to be receiving at least 5 concomitant medications: 23% of men and 39% of women with epilepsy age18?44 were on 5+ medications vs 2?3% in general population. In men and women age 45?64, this figure was 47?60% vs 10?15% in general population. Most frequent comedications are antipsychotics (YA:10%-YO:19%), SSRI antidepressants (YA:20%-YO:28%), TCA antidepressants (YA:7%-OA:11%), Calcium channel blockers (YA:3%-E:35%) and statins (YA:2%-YO:41%). Antidepressants are more common for females (SSRI:25%vs16%;TCA:9%vs5%). Concomitant Medications use in AED users by age and enzyme inducer 18?34 35?54 55?64 65?74 75?84 85+ Female EI 4.1 5.8 7.7 7.4 6.6 6.8 Female NEI 4.0 6.8 8.2 8.8 6.2 7.6 Male EI 2.2 4.1 5.8 6.5 6.7 7.8 Male NEI 2.8 5.2 7.2 7.2 8.9 7.4 Conclusions: Concomitant drug use occurs across all age groups, not simply the elderly. Not surprisingly, the occurrence of polypharmacy with potentially interacting medication appears to steadily increase with age. Discrimination in AED selection based upon potential PK interactions was not seen. While no specific gender differences were seen with cardiovascular medications, differing patterns of gender specific psychotropic drug use may exist. These findings suggest that clinicians must be mindful of polypharmacy and potential non-AED interactions in all age groups, not only elderly patients. (Supported by UCB INC.) 1 Christoph Helmstaedter, 1 Edgar Kockelmann, 1 Nina Kosanetzky, and 1 Christian E. Elger ( 1 Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: Levetiracetam (LEV), one of the newer antiepileptic drugs, is considered a save and successful drug against epilepsy in adults and children with symptomatic and also idiopathic epilepsy. Recent observations of aggression and irritability under LEV raised the question as to whether this effect depends on dose or drug load and whether personality traits represent a risk factor for negative behavioral change. Methods: The study comprised 288 consecutive pharmacoresistant epilepsy patients (mean age 38yrs., m/f 145/143) who were chronically on LEV (90% polytherapy). Efficacy and effects on cognition, mood and behavior were evaluated per structured interview, analogue rating scales, questionnaires on personality and impulsiveness, and per file inspection. Incidence and type of positive or negative effects as well as possible mediators like personality traits, dose of LEV, total drug load, seizure control, type of epilepsy, age and gender were of interest. Proxy reports were available from 135 relatives. Results: Good seizure control (no or very rare seizures) under LEV was reported by 40% of the patients, improvement (few remaining seizures) by another 40%, and no benefit by 20% (mean dose ?1000 mg, mean duration on LEV 2.3 yrs). Good responders had less AED and lower doses of LEV. Patients with symptomatic and idiopathic epilepsy responded equally well. Negative behavioral effects were reported from 37% of the patients (12% severe, 25% moderate), positive effects by 22% (6% very, 16% moderate). Side effects in either direction were independent of the time on LEV, dose, and drug load but they were significantly related to seizure control and personality traits. Positive change corresponded to analogue ratings of better concentration and memory and of greater activity and energy, and negative change to ratings of aggression (physical), agitation, impulsivity or depressed mood. Finally, negative side effects were related to symptoms related to organic brain syndrome and to non-planning impulsiveness. Analyses of proxy ratings indicated reliability of patient reports. Conclusions: A considerable number of patients subjectively experiences behavioral change under LEV. LEV appears a stimulating agent, which can act in two directions. The negative extension is characterized by reduced impulse control, emotional instability and irritability, where aggression only appears one extreme variant. The positive extension is characterized by increased activation/arousal and by positive effects on cognitive performance. Most importantly behavioral change is closely related to efficacy, in that good responders show more positive and less negative side effects than poor responders. [figure 1] (Supported by UCB Pharma.) 1 Helle Herrman, 1 Erik Taub?ll, and 1 Leif Gjerstad ( 1 Department of Neurology, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ) Rationale: Levetiracetam (LEV) is a broad spectrum antiepileptic drug with a favourable safety profile. Haematological side effects including leucopenia and thrombocytopenia are rare, but are potentially serious. This is the first report of a patient who developed reversible trombocytopathia secondary to LEV use. Methods: A 57 year-old female with generalized tonic-clonic seizures of unknown etiology since the age of 31 developed marked ecchymoses 1 month after initiation of LEV. The ecchymoses remained as long as she was taking LEV (13 months), but disappeared immediately after cessation of the drug. The patient did not use any other drugs, was otherwise healthy, had never had any haematological diseases or bleeding predisposition before, and there was no family history of such. Results: The platelet count was unchanged during LEV treatment with 244, 276 and 275 ? 109/l before, during and after LEV treatment. Bleeding time on LEV treatment, however, was pathologically increased to 12 min (normal value 3?10), compared to 7.5 min without drug. Screening for other haematological parameters including coagulation factors VIII, IX, Von Willebrand factor, Ristocetin Co., white blood cell count, and general haematology was normal. Conclusions: This is the first report of LEV induced thrombocytopathia with increased bleeding time and ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia. Most likely, there has been a direct effect of the drug on trombocyte function. Alternatively, an effect on endothelial cells or vessel wall fragility can not be ruled out. 1,2 Erik Hessen, 1,3,2 Morten I. Lossius, 4 Ivar Reinvang, and 5 Leif Gjerstad ( 1 Helse ?st Health Services, Akershus University Hospital, Oslo, Norway ; 2 Deptartment of Neurology, Akershus University Hospital, Oslo, Norway ; 3 National Center for Epilepsy, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, Norway ; 4 Deptartment of Psychology, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ; and 5 Deptartment of Neurology, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, Norway ) Rationale: The main cognitive side-effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) involve attention/vigilance, psychomotor speed and memory. Traditional neuropsychological testing has been the major method of measuring cognitive function related to the use of AEDs. Uncertainty exists regarding the degree of cognitive effects primarily because many studies do not adhere to basic standards of methodology and design. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of withdrawal of AEDs in patients on monotherapy and to evaluate the usefulness of a computerized assessment package that provide measures of reported side effects like attention, choice reaction time, psychomotor speed and memory. Methods: 150 subjects who had been seizure free > 2 years on drug monotherapy went through a randomised, double blind, placebo controlled study. The patients were included for 12 months or until seizure relapse. Cognitive function was assessed with the California Computerized Assessment Package at baseline and seven months after withdrawal. Results: The major finding in this study is that withdrawal of major AEDs significantly improved performance on tests that require complex cognitive processing under time pressure. Most of the subjects were medicated with carbamazepine and valproate. The outcome of withdrawal of carbamazepine was similar to the outcome for the total study population while discontinuation of valproate only revealed a non-significant tendency in the same direction. Conclusions: The results suggest that seizure-free epilepsy patients on monotherapy can obtain improvement in cognitive function if they withdraw anti-epileptic treatment and that computerized cognitive testing is useful in detecting cognitive side effects related to complex cognitive processing under time pressure. (Supported by a grant from Helse ?st, Norway.) 1 Hiba Arif, 2 Richard Buchsbaum, 1 Joanna Ferreri, 1 Michael Whalen, 1 Jessica Sims, 1 Stanley R. Resor Jr., 1 Carl W. Bazil, and 1 Lawrence J. Hirsch ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: Retention, a measure of antiepileptic drug (AED) ?effectiveness,? is the percentage of patients started on a drug who remain on it after a given period of time, and is a composite measure of efficacy  3?5: refractory; 5+: very refractory. In each comparison, the individual AED was compared to the average of all other AEDs. Those who were seizure-free but stopped an AED in < 1 year due to side effects were excluded from the seizure-freedom analysis. Results: Overall, 319/413 (77.2%) patients remained on at least 1 AED for at least 1 year. The following were 12-month retention rates for each AED (*= p < 0.05 better, $= p < 0.05 worse, compared to average of other AEDs), listed from most to least effective: LTG* (75.6%; 90/119), LEV* (71.7%; 71/99), VPA (65.0%; 13/20), CLB (64.3%; 9/14), GBP (61.0%; 25/41), ZNS (58.8%; 10/17), TPM (52.4%; 11/21), PHT (50.0%; 7/14), CBZ (46.4%; 13/28), OXC$ (24.2%; 8/33). Relative rates were similar in refractory patients, except VPA (improved to 90.0%; 9/10, p < 0.1) and CBZ$ (dropped to 25%; 2/8). 12-month seizure-freedom rates were as follows (*= p < 0.05 better, $= p < 0.05 worse, compared to average of other AEDs), listed from most to least efficacious: LTG* (47.4%; 36/76), LEV (33.3%; 22/66), CBZ (23.1%; 6/26), VPA (20.0%; 3/15), GBP (17.9%; 5/28), TPM (17.6%; 3/17), PHT (16.7%; 2/12), OXC$ (6.5%; 2/31) and ZNS (0.0%; 0/15). Relative rates were similar in refractory  PHT, CBZ  2 Psychiatry, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ; and 3 Pathology, Emory Univeristy School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: The treatment of women with epilepsy during pregnancy necessitates a balance between minimizing fetal exposure to AEDs while maintaining seizure control. Oxcarbazepine (OXC) is the only newer generation AED other than lamotrigine (LTG) with reasonable safety data during pregnancy. Reports of major malformation rates vary between 0?5%. However, EURAPregnancy Registry reported that use of OXC monotherapy was associated with an increased risk for GTCSzs, and the number or dosage of AEDs were most often increased in pregnancies treated with OXC or LTG monotherapy. This observational study did not report on serum concentrations or OXC clearance. About 50% of the metabolism of the 10-monohydroxy derivative (MHD) of OXC is via glucuronidation, which is especially susceptible to activation by the hormonal changes of pregnancy. MHD Clearance (Cl/F) Across Pregnancy and Postpartum: OXC Daily Dose (mg/kg)/MHD Serum Concentration (mg/L) # of Samples Cl/F (Total) % Change from Baseline Clu/F (Free) % Change from Baseline Postpartum (Baseline) 8 0.7 ± 0.2 1.6 ± 0.4 Trimester 1 2 1.0 ± 0.4 35.2 1.9 ± 1.0 22.7 Trimester 2 9 1.1 ± 0.5 54.9 2.2 ± 0.6 40.6 Trimester 3 8 1.3 ± 0.4 84.5 2.3 ± 0.7 47.3 Clearance reported as Mean ± Standard Deviation (Supported by a Specialized Center for Research P50 MH 68036.) Methods: 5 women (4 epilepsy, 1 bipolar disorder) treated with OXC (doses of 450?3000 mg/day) were consented and followed in a prospective observational study. Serum samples were obtained throughout pregnancy and until 5 months postpartum (n = 27). Postpartum samples were considered the non-pregnant baseline. Maternal plasma and umbilical cord samples were also collected at delivery (n = 4). Comparisons of the total apparent oral clearance(Cl/F) and free (unbound) apparent oral clearance (Clu/F) were made between the postpartum (baseline) and perinatal stages. Umbilical cord/maternal concentration ratios were calculated for total and free MHD. Results: Cl/F and Clu/F data from the postpartum and perinatal stages are reported in Table 1. Umbilical cord/maternal concentrations demonstrated a mean placental passage of 1.0 ± 0.3 (total) and 1.1 ± 0.2 (free) for MHD. Obstetrical outcome demonstrated mean APGAR scores of 8.5 ± 0.6 at 1 min, 9.0 ± 0.0 at 5 mins, birth weights of 3.2 ± 0.4 kg, and weeks at delivery of 39.4 ± 1.0. No major malformations were detected. Conclusions: During pregnancy, both total MHD Cl/F and free MHD Cl/F increase considerably, although the latter to a lesser degree. Substantial exposure occurs in utero with complete placental passage of OXC. Therapeutic drug monitoring of OXC may be helpful to prevent seizure deterioration during pregnancy and improve maternal and fetal outcomes. 1 Marcia J. Hunt, 1 Eljim P. Tesoro, 1 Jeffery J. Mucksavage, and 2 Yevgenya Kaydanova ( 1 Department of Pharmacy Practice, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL ; and 2 Department of Neurology, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: The use of levetiracetam in the intensive care unit (ICU) has limited data. Phenytoin, a standard antiepileptic drug (AED) has numerous challenges in relation to dosing, administration, and adverse effects. Levetiracetam, a newer antiepileptic agent has a limited side effect profile and does not affect the cytochrome P450 pathway. This retrospective review will look at the use of levetiracetam in the ICU patient population at the University of Illinois Medical Center at Chicago (UIMCC) to date. The primary objective is to determine if levetiracetam is effective in preventing and/or treating seizures clinically and per electroencephalogram (EEG). The secondary objectives are to determine the safety and tolerability, the reasons for initiating, and the usage pattern of levetiracetam in the ICUs at UIMCC. Methods: This study is a retrospective chart review of patients who received levetiracetam while in the ICU. Patients are included in this study if they are initiated on levetiracetam during January 2002 through October 2005 while they are hospitalized in the ICU. Exclusion criteria are patients <18 years of age and pregnant females. Data collected includes patient demographics, renal and liver function, EEG results, observed seizures in daily progress notes, dose of levetiracetam started, final dose of levetiracetam, rate of titration of dose, reason levetiracetam started, other AEDs patients receiving during hospitalization, and adverse events suspected of other AEDs and/or levetiracetam. Patients will be followed until levetiracetam is discontinued, patient is discharged from the hospital, or death occurs. Results: Preliminary results are available for 100 patients. Sixty-four percent of patients were admitted to the neurosurgical intensive care unit (NSICU). The most frequent initial dose (41%) and the most common final dosage (27%) of levetiracetam was 500 mg every 12 hours. Only 49% of patients had their dosage titrated up during hospitalizations. Most patients were either previously or currently on phenytoin as monotherapy (48%). Fifty-seven percent of patients were initiated on levetiracetam secondary to drug interactions or adverse effects of traditional AEDs. The most common adverse effect possibly related to levetiracetam was lethargy (8%). Eighty-seven percent of patients did not have a clinic seizure occur. Preliminary EEG results are available for 47 patients. A trend in reduction of ictal and interictal epileptiform activity was observed after initiation of levetiracetam and it appears EEGs improve as levetiracetam is continued. Conclusions: Levetiracetam is well tolerated in ICU patients and it is frequently initiated because of adverse effects and drug interactions of other AEDs. Based upon preliminary data, levetiracetam appears to have beneficial effects on EEG activity. (Supported by An unrestricted grant from UCB Pharma, Inc.) 1 Dorothee G.A. Kasteleijn Nolst Trenite, 2 Edouard Hirsch, 3 Bernd Schmidt, and 4 Jaqueline A. French ( 1 Pharmacology, NeuroActiveResearch, Bloemendaal, Netherlands ; 2 Neurology, University of Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France ; 3 Neurology, Wittnau, Germany ; and 4 Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia ) Rationale: Despite authoritative reviews in 2005 on the subject of photosensitive patients and their epileptiform EEG responses to intermittent photic stimulation (IPS)(Fisher et al. Covanis, Verrotti et al., Kasteleijn et al.), gleaning the essential components necessary to effectively study a new AED in the photosensitivity model are not readily available. This work proposes a novel rationale for the use of the photosensitivity model in the development of new AEDs and perhaps as a surrogate marker for AED efficacy in epilepsy. The amended FDA laws (1992,1997) permit approval of a new AED on the basis of a AED's effect on a surrogate marker, one that can be reasonably expected to predict the clinical outcome (Katz R. The development of AEDs: regulatory perspective. In AEDs 5th Levy R et al.; Philadelphia 67?68, 2002). Methods: A survey of epileptologists with extensive experience in performance of studies in the photosensitivity model, was conducted to arrive at consensus statements for the clinical utility of the model in assessing the activity of potential new AEDs in epilepsy. Results: Advantages include: 1.The range of photoparoxysmal EEG responses (PPRs) is a stable, repeatable and objective measure of the epileptic state of the brain 2. The procedure of IPS establishing the photosensitivity ranges has been standardised with also clear diminishment of risks to evoke seizures (EU consensus) 3. Only a limited number of patients (20)during a limited time period (number of days 3?5) are necessary to have a reliable outcome 4. AEDs limit, reduce or even abolish the PPRs 5. The results provide some guidance as to the choice to dose in further phase II and III trials 6. Comparison of strength of effect of AEDs in the photosensitive patients 7. Correlation of pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic data 8. A first experience of the effect of a new AED on the EEG background can be established 9. Testing in female patients in an early stage of development 10. A PPR is found in patients with generalised as well as focal epilepsy types and syndromes and reflects a general susceptibility to epilepsy 11. AEDs effective in the photosensitivity model are effective also in epilepsy patients in general 12. Compliance is secured as well as monitoring of subjective and objective side-effects13. Flexibility of design with immediate results. Disadvantages include: 1. Only about 5% of patients above 18 years of age show a PPR 2. Photic stimulation may provoke a seizure 3. Highly skilled centers are necessary to perform such a study. Conclusions: The photosensitivity model offers an excellent way of testing efficacy and tolerability of AEDs in a very standardized, controlled and safe manner in the early development. 1 D. Kastelijn-Nolst Trenité, 2 B. Abou-Khalil, 3 J. French, 4 P. Genton, 5 E. Hirsch, 6 P. Masnou, 7 D. Parain, 8 D. Chen, 8 A. Hollis, 9 S. McCabe, 9 M. Troenaru, 9 N. Toublanc, and 9 A. Stockis ( 1 UMCU, Utrecht, Netherlands ; 2 VUMC, Nashville ; 3 U. Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ; 4 Hospital de La Timone, Marseille, France ; 5 CHRU, Strasbourg, France ; 6 CHU Kremlin Bicetre, France ; 7 CHU, Rouen, France ; 8 UCB Inc, Smyrna, GA ; and 9 UCB SA, Braine-l?Alleud, Belgium ) Rationale: To assess the pharmacodynamics and tolerability of seletracetam (UCB 44212) single doses, a 2-pyrrolidinone derivative, in photosensitive patients. Seletracetam is an investigational new drug structurally related to levetiracetam (LEV) with a higher affinity and similar high selectivity towards the specific SV2A binding site. LEV and brivaracetam have shown to be effective in this POP model before. Methods: A placebo-controlled, single blind, single period study, conducted in photosensitive patients with epilepsy, aged 18?60 years, taking no more than 2 other concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). During a 3 day period (with possible extension to 5 days) patients underwent standardized intermittent photic stimulation (IPS) to define the standard photosensitive range (SPR) at fixed time points. After the 1st day with placebo, single oral doses of seletracetam were given on the 2nd day, starting at 10 mg in a group of patients and testing subsequently lower or higher doses depending on the results of the previous group. Doses tested were 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 10, and 20 mg. SPR was the main parameter to identify the lowest single dose of seletracetam producing maximal decrease or suppression of the IPS evoked photoparoxysmal EEG response (PPR) comparing the SPRs before and after intake of seletracetam. Plasma seletracetam was monitored up to 72 hours post-dose. Descriptive statistics were used. Results: 28 patients (23 F, 5 M) completed the study. One was excluded from the per protocol analysis due to emesis. 9 patients returned for a 2nd dosing 1?6 months later, providing a total of 36 individual exposures. Overall, 53% (19/36) patients showed a complete suppression of the epileptiform EEG response after seletracetam intake and 36% (13/36) showed an important decrease in SPR. The maximum SPR decrease from time-matched placebo was dose related and appeared to reach its maximal level at 10 mg. The pharmacokinetic and side-effect profile was similar to that in healthy volunteers. 18 patients (64%) reported 42 adverse events during the study (5 after placebo and 37 after seletracetam), without specific association with dose. Somnolence (32%), dizziness (21%), headache (14%), feeling drunk (7%) were reported following seletracetam, compared to <5% following placebo. Conclusions: Seletracetam was effective in reducing or even abolishing the photoparoxysmal EEG response in photosensitive patients with epilepsy. Maximal suppression was achieved at relatively low doses of 10 and 20 mg. Seletracetam is more potent in this model, compared to both LEV and brivaracetam. (Supported by UCB funded.) 1 Susan P. Kerls, 1 Anne E. Hammer, 1 Robert P. Kustra, and 2 Steve Chung ( 1 Neurosciences Medicine Development Center, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ; and 2 Adult Neurology Clinic, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: A recent study evaluated the cognitive effects of lamotrigine (LTG) and topiramate (TPM) adjunctive therapy for refractory partial seizure disorders in adults. This analysis provides further examination of these results in patients over the age of 50. This randomized, double-blind clinical trial evaluated the cognitive effects of TPM and LTG in addition to the safety and tolerability of TPM and LTG in older adult patients with partial seizures. Methods: Eligible patients had a diagnosis of partial epilepsy and were inadequately controlled by a regimen containing carbamazepine (CBZ) or phenytoin (PHT). Patients were evaluated and administered six cognitive tests at each of the three study phases: Baseline; Escalation (8 weeks) to 500 mg/day LTG or 300 mg/day TPM; Maintenance (8 weeks). An endpoint of the study was change from Baseline in the scores from the six standardized measures of cognition to the end of the Maintenance Phase. Statistical testing was performed using analysis of covariance methods. Results: The most common (>=10%) treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) were dizziness (12% LTG, 4% TPM) and nausea (16% LTG, 4% TPM). More patients in the TPM group prematurely discontinued due to an AE (35% TPM, 28% LTG). Two of the thirteen patients in the TPM group that prematurely discontinued due to cognitive decline were considered related (15%). Ten patients in the LTG group that prematurely discontinued due to cognitive decline were not related. Of the 192 patients (96 LTG, 96 TPM) enrolled in the study, there was a statistically significant difference in three of the six cognitive tests in favor of LTG (COWA p < 0.001, Stroop Test p = 0.038, Symbol-Digit Modalities p < 0.001). Conclusions: Although no significant discontinuation rate was found, treatment with LTG compared to TPM resulted in significantly better cognitive test scores in certain cognitive domains for older adult patients with epilepsy. This finding was consistent with the result reported previously from the overall population in this study. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development.) 1 James F. Knudsen, and 2 Gerald Sokol ( 1 CDER, White Oak Research Facility, Silver Spring, MD ; and 2 H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL ) Rationale: We and others have shown that in vitro, the antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) zonisamide (ZNS) and topiramate (TPM) inhibit the zinc metalloenzyme carbonic anhydrase (CA), an enzyme involved in gluconeogenesis, ion transport, and provision of HCO3?. Hippocampal neuronal GABAergic depolarization is reported to be dependent on HCO3? and thus on intracellular CA activity. We studied some aspects of cognitive impairment among patients exposed to TPM and other AEDs. Methods: We examined the incidence of treatment-emergent cognitive adverse events in placebo (PBO)-controlled studies of AEDs that are CA inhibitors (CAIs) (TPM, ZNS) vs. newer AEDs that are not known CAIs (tiagabine, TB; gabapentin, GP; lamotrigine, LG; and levetiracetam, LTA). We used data available from clinical PBO-controlled randomized add-on trials for each of the AEDs, because head-to-head comparisons of these drugs in premarketing clinical trials were lacking. Two cognitive variables examined were psychomotor slowing and concentration/memory impairment. Results: The incidence of psychomotor slowing was: TPM (n = 414) vs. PBO (n = 291), 21% vs. 2%; ZNS (n = 289) vs. PBO (n = 230), 4% vs. 2%; TB (n = 494) vs. PBO (n = 275), 10% vs. 5%; GP (n = 543) vs. PBO (n = 378), < 1% vs. < 1%; LG (n = 711) vs. PBO (n = 419), 2% vs. <1%; and LTA (n = 769) vs. PBO (n = 439), <1% vs. <1%. The incidence of impaired concentration/memory were: TPM vs. PBO, 28% vs. 5%; ZNS vs. PBO, 12% vs. 4%; and <1% for the remainder. Conclusions: From the clinically significant increase in the incidence of impaired concentration/memory in patients exposed to the CAIs TPM and ZNS vs. PBO and no observed effect of non-CAI AEDs relative to PBO, we hypothesized that CA and provision of HCO3? are important in neuronal homeostasis. CA acts as a molecular switch in the development of synchronous gamma-frequency firing of hippocampal pyramidal cells. [Ruusuvuori E., et al. J.Neurosci 2004;24:2699?2707]. GABAergic excitation and associated gamma oscillations seem dependent on CA activity, HCO3? availability, membrane pH gradients and provision for ionized calcium (adding H+ to a solution of HCO3? will generate more carbonic, CO2 and H2O). CAI may medicate some aspects of cognition as demonstrated by our report. 1,2 Marianna V. Spanaki, 1,2 Panayiotis N. Varelas, 1 Madhuri L. Koganti, and 1 Brien J. Smith ( 1 Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, K-11, Detroit, MI ; and 2 Neurology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: Antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment in the elderly represents a challenge due to limited data on their efficacy and side effect profile in older patients, high incidence of co-morbidities, and age-related changes in protein binding, gastrointestinal absorption, renal and hepatic clearance. In the last decade new AEDs with improved tolerability and reduced interaction potential have been available. The aim of the study was to determine whether the increased availability of new AEDs has influenced our prescribing habits in elderly epilepsy patients. Methods: We identified new referrals to Henry Ford Hospital epilepsy clinics in the last 3 years by searching our electronic database. We included patients older than 60 with a confirmed diagnosis of epilepsy. We collected data on specialty of referring physician, age at epilepsy onset, etiology, AED upon initial evaluation, seizure control and calcium supplementation. Descriptive statistics and Fisher's exact test were used for the analysis. Results: Of 349 new referrals, 49 (14%) were older than 60 (age range 60 to 91; females = 20). Primary care physicians referred 23 (47%) patients. Community neurologists referred the remainder, except for two referred by neurosurgeons. Thirty four patients (69.4%) were taking either one old or combination of old AEDs. Nineteen patients (38.7%) were on phenytoin monotherapy and 10 (20.4%) on phenytoin polytherapy. Twelve patients (24.5%) were taking carbamazepine as mono or polytherapy while 9 patients (18.4%) were on phenobarbital combination therapy. Only 11 patients (32%) on old AEDs were seizure free. In our patient group only 4 patients (8%) were taking new AED monotherapy. Calcium supplementation was recommended in only 3 patients (6%). There was a trend for primary care physicians (PCP) to prescribe older AEDs (95% of PCP vs 74% of neuro-specialists, p = 0.09) Conclusions: Our study showed that almost 70% of elderly are still being prescribed phenytoin, phenobarbital and carbamazepine despite their potential of multiple drug interactions, sedative and cognitive side effects, increased neurotoxicity at ?therapeutic doses? along with long term side effects such as osteoporosis. In our group, patients were maintained on old AEDs although they were effective in only 32% of them. Guidelines for calcium supplementation were not followed. Ten years after the approval of new AEDs, their use is still very limited in elderly for reasons that need to be further addressed. 1 Gregory Krauss, 2 Elinor Ben-Menachem, 3 Ruta Mameniskiene, 4 Nerija Vaiciene, 5 Melissa Brock, and 5 John Whitesides ( 1 Department of Neurology, John Hopkins Hospital Epilepsy Center, Baltimore, MD ; 2 Institution for Clinical Neuroscience and Physiology, Shalgrenska University Hospital, Goteborg, Sweden ; 3 Department of Neurology, Vilnius University Hospital, Vilnius, Lithuania ; 4 Clinic of Neurology, Kaunas Medical University Hospital, Kaunas, Lithuania ; and 5 Schwarz Biosciences, Inc., Raleigh, NC ) Rationale: Lacosamide (LCM, SPM 927; formerly harkoseride) is a new chemical entity being developed as an oral and intravenous (iv) formulation for treatment of partial seizures and neuropathic pain. LCM has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile and when given orally twice daily (bid) has been shown to reduce seizure frequency in subjects. LCM solution for iv infusion (10 mg/mL) is being developed as short-term replacement for oral LCM. Infusion of 200mg iv LCM over 30- or 60-minutes has been shown to be bioequivalent (Cmax, AUC) to 200mg oral LCM. The objectives of SP757 were to investigate whether iv LCM was safe and well tolerated when given bid as short-term adjunctive therapy in subjects with partial seizures and to identify the appropriate infusion rate(s). Methods: Subjects (n = 101) receiving adjunctive, stable, bid dosing with oral LCM (200 to 600 mg/day) were progressively studied in 3 cohorts: 30-min infusion (n = 40); 15-min infusion (n = 41); 10-min infusion (n = 20). A fourth cohort (15-min infusion, n = 60) was recently completed and those data are under review. Subjects were administered iv LCM bid for 2?5 days. Treatment duration was at the discretion of the investigator and subject. After trial completion subjects resumed treatment with oral LCM. Safety was evaluated through reported adverse events (AEs); 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) and vital sign data collection; and clinical laboratory data. Seizure data were collected in a diary. A Data Monitoring Committee reviewed safety data from each completed cohort prior to initiation of subsequent cohorts. Results: All subjects were administered 2 days of iv LCM bid; 47 (77%) of subjects from the 15- and 10-min infusion groups were dosed for 3?5 days. A total of 16% of subjects took 200 mg/day, 48% of subjects took 300?400 mg/day and 36% of subjects took 500?600 mg/day LCM. Dizziness was the most commonly reported AE; frequency ranged from 5% in the 15- and 10-min groups to 8% in the 30-min infusion group. Infusion site related AEs were infrequently reported and did not result in discontinuation of iv LCM. Mean vital sign results remained stable during and following iv LCM infusion. Seizure patterns for individual subjects did not appear to change during the trial period. Conclusions: In this trial, lacosamide solution for intravenous infusion (administered over 10, 15, or 30 minutes) was successfully used as short-term replacement for oral lacosamide in subjects with partial seizures. (Supported by Schwarz Biosciences, Inc.) 1 Sumeet Kumar, 1 Pinar Miski, and 1 Mercedes P. Jacobson ( 1 Neurology, Temple University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: To examine possible interactions in patients taking both antiepileptic and psychiatric medications, thereby identifying their impact on non-compliance with these drugs. Methods: A retrospective study was conducted to identify subjects with epilepsy seen in the past year at the epilepsy clinic of Temple University Hospital. 803 subjects were identified, and 500 were eligible for this study based on a clear diagnosis of epilepsy, use of at least one antiepileptic drug at the last clinic visit, and availability of mental health information in the charts. A psychiatric diagnosis was not required to be in this study. 110 subjects were then randomly selected in proportions that matched the race and gender demographical ratios of the overall epilepsy patient pool at the clinic. Results: Of 110 subjects, 41% were African-American (AA) (27 F, 18 M), 36% Caucasian (25 F, 15 M), 18% Hispanic (10 F, 10 M), and 5% Asian (3 M, 2 F). 58% of patients were female with an age range of 19 to 77 years. Males ranged from 18 to 71 years. The incidence of concurrent psychiatric and epilepsy diagnoses was 63% (n = 69). Of these, 35% (24 of 69) were non-compliant with psychiatric medication. Among this group, men had the highest rate of non-compliance (80% of Hispanics, 36% of Caucasians, 33% of AAs were non-compliant). Women had lower rates of non-compliance with psychiatric medication (33% of Caucasians, 32% of AAs, and 13% of Hispanics were non-compliant). Among compliant subjects (45 of 69), 40% (n = 18) were on antiepileptic and psychiatric medications that were known to have at least one potential interaction with each other. Of these 18 subjects, the groups with the highest prevalence rate of potential medication interactions were AA males (n = 5), Hispanic females (n = 4), AA females (n = 5), Caucasian males (n = 3), Caucasian females (n = 1), and Hispanic males (n = 0). The most common psychiatric diagnosis in patients with epilepsy was depression (52% of all psychiatric diagnoses). Conclusions: In our study, there was a high rate of psychiatric comorbidity in people with epilepsy. Among compliant subjects, there was a high rate of potential interaction between antiepileptic and psychiatric medications. Among the 110 subjects however, there were no recognized clinical events attributed to drug interactions. AA males and Hispanic females were the groups with highest rate for potential interactions, yet were more likely to be compliant with psychiatric medications than other groups. This suggests that drug interactions are not only the reason for medication non-compliance. Clinicians need to be aware of cultural, gender, and social differences among epileptic persons taking psychiatric medications. Other factors such as insurance coverage, mental health services access, neurology clinic access, communication between Psychiatrists and Neurologists, and efficacy of psychiatric and neurologic medicines will impact compliance. 1 Michael Lamson, 2 Diane Sitki-Green, 1 Gerald Wannarka, and 3 William Gershon ( 1 Pharmacokinetics, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cary, NC ; 2 Clinical Research, Lineberry Research Associates, RTP, NC ; and 3 Clinical Research, SFBC International, Miami, FL ) Rationale: An autoinjector delivery system for intramuscular (i.m.) administration of diazepam (Vanquix? Auto-Injector) is being developed as an alternative to diazepam rectal administration, the only current treatment that can be administered by non-health care professionals for management of patients with acute repetitive seizures (ARS). Methods: The study was conducted as a 2-part, randomized, open-label, single-dose, crossover design in healthy young (ages 18?40 years) adult volunteers. Part I of the study evaluated the pharmacokinetics (PK) of Vanquix? 5, and 15 mg administered i.m. into the mid outer thigh. Part II evaluated the relative bioavailability of Vanquix? 10 mg compared with diazepam rectal gel (Diastat?) 10 mg administered according to the product label. Serial sampling of plasma, vital signs, and adverse event assessments were done a specified times. Treatments were separated by a 2-week washout period. Results: A total of 48 subjects were enrolled in the study, 24 in each part. In Part I of the study, administration of Vanquix? 5, 10, and 15 mg i.m. resulted in a proportional increase of the diazepam Cmax and AUC, and a consistent Tmax of 1.0 hour at each dose level. In Part II of the study, i.m. administration of Vanquix? 10 mg resulted in plasma concentrations of both the diazepam and desmethyldiazepam that were slightly higher and less variable than those observed following diazepam rectal gel 10 mg. Two subjects had negligible absorption of diazepam from the rectal route of administration, which skewed the PK results for the reference drug. Excluding the tow outliers, the geometric mean ratio (Vanquix? Auto-Injector/Diastat?) and 90% CIs for diazepam Cmax and AUC(O-t) were 0.94 [0.84, 1.05] and 1.14 [1.08, 1.21], respectively, indicating that the overal bioavailability of Vanquix? was approximately 14% higher than that of diazepam rectal gel (Diastat?). Both treatments were generally safe and well-tolerated. Although the incidence of treatment-emergent AEs was higher with Vanquix? Auto-Injector compared with Diastat? (21.7%versus 13.6%), the difference could be attributed to injection site pain. Injection site pain also correlated with the Vanquix? dose administered in Part I: 5 mg (4.3%), 10 mg (21.7%), and 15 mg (27.3%). No other AEs correlated with dose, and there was no evidence of respiratory depression with either drug. Conclusions: The results of this study demonstrate that diazepam can be safely and reliably delivered to the systematic circulation using Vanquix? Auto Injector. The slight (14%) difference in bioavailability between Vanquix? Auto Injector and diazepam rectal gel is of questionable clinical importance and suggests that the two dosage forms could be interchanged on a mg per mg basis. (Supported by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) 1 John Paul Leach, 1 Martin J. Brodie, 1 Graeme Sills, 1 Linda Stephens, and 1 Elaine Butler ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Western Infirmary, Glasgow, United Kingdom ) Rationale: We undertook a randomised, open-label study to compare the efficacy, tolerability, and androgenic effects of lamotrigine (LTG) and sodium valproate (VPA) monotherapy in newly diagnosed epilepsy. Methods: A total of 226 patients with a recent diagnosis of epilepsy were randomised (on an equal basis) to receive either LTG or VPA. Median age at recruitment was 35 years (range = 13 to 80 years). Sixty patients presented with idiopathic generalised epilepsy, 149 patients had localisation-related epilepsy, and 17 remained unclassified. Subjects were followed up at six-weekly intervals until reaching one of the study end points (1 year seizure freedom, withdrawal due to side effects, or withdrawal due to lack of efficacy). In addition, basic androgenic function was assessed by longitudinal analysis of serum testosterone and androstenedione concentrations. Results: A total of 197 patients reached an end point. Median dose of VPA was 1000 mg/day (range 600 ? 3000 mg/day), while the median dose of LTG was 200 mg/day (range 100 ? 700 mg/day). Seizure freedom rates were similar for both drugs (67% and 60% for VPA- and LTG-treated patients, respectively). Withdrawal due to side effects was required in 24 VPA patients and 14 LTG patients. Similar numbers were withdrawn due to lack of efficacy (18 VPA, 15 LTG). Longitudinal assessment of androgenic function showed no significant change in either treatment arm. Conclusions: No significant differences were noted in measures of outcome (efficacy or tolerability) in groups of patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy treated with either VPA or LTG. Androgenic function was not affected by either treatment. (Supported by: This study was partly supported by an unrestricted educational grant from Sanofi.) 1 P.T. Leese, 2 D.R. Goldwater, 4R. Hulhoven, 3 E. Salas, 4N. Toublanc, 3 D. Chen, 4M.L. Sargentini-Maier, and 4A. Stockis ( 1 Phase-I Services, Quintiles Inc, Lenexa, KS ; 2 Clinical Research Unit, Parexel Inc, Baltimore, MD ; and 3 Clinical Pharmacology, UCB Inc, Smyrna, GA ) Rationale: Seletracetam (UCB 44212) is an investigational new drug structurally related to levetiracetam with a higher affinity and similar high selectivity towards the specific SV2A binding site. The anticipated pharmacologically active dose in humans is around 15 mg based on animal models of epilepsy. Methods: Single and multiple rising dose studies of seletracetam were performed in a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled manner. Healthy male volunteers were enrolled. For the single administration, 3 alternating panels of 9 subjects received the following doses: 2, 4, 10, 20, 50, 100, 200, 400, and 600 mg (6 active: 3 placebo). Food effect was assessed in an additional group of 8 subjects. For the multiple dose administration, 3 different panels of 12 subjects (9 active: 3 placebo) received 20, 60 and 200 mg twice daily during 2 weeks. CNS effects were explored with psychomotor tests, rating scales and neurological assessments. Results: The maximum single dose of 600 mg and the maximum repeated dose of 400 mg/day were well tolerated. During multiple dosing, treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) occurred in 44%, 89%, 78% and 100% of subjects receiving placebo, 20, 60 and 200 mg b.i.d., respectively. The most frequent were dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria and feeling drunk. Most appeared shortly after first dosing, were of mild or moderate intensity, and lasted for less than 12 hours. In most subjects, the AEs did not reappear when given the next dose. AE severity was mild to moderate. There were no serious AEs and no changes in laboratory, vital signs, ECGs or neurological examinations. Seletracetam pharmacokinetics were linear, dose-proportional and time invariant, with a plasma half-life of 8 hours. Co-administration with a high fat meal resulted in reduced absorption rate and no change in AUC. Conclusions: The maximum tolerated dose of seletracetam was > 600 mg after single dose and >400 mg/day after 2 weeks of repeated dosing. Its favorable pharmacokinetics and good tolerability, with AEs limited to mild to moderate CNS effects at initial dosing, are encouraging for the continued clinical development of this new antiepileptic drug. (Supported by UCB funded.) 1 Xiao-Yuan Lian, 2 Zhizhen Zhang, and 1 Janet L. Stringer ( 1 Pharmacology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; and 2 College of Forestry, Stephen F. Austin State University, Nacogdoches, TX ) Rationale: Used medicinally for more 2,000 years, ginseng has been shown to have biological activity in a number of systems. The possibility that ginseng may have anticonvulsant activity was first suggested in 2002. The purpose of this study was to test the anticonvulsant activity of three preparations of American ginseng (whole root extract, whole leaves/stems extract and a partially purified extract that concentrates the Rb ginsenosides (Rb extract)) and to identify the active components in the Rb extract. Methods: One hour after treatment with normal saline or one of the ginseng preparations, seizures were induced in adult, male, Sprague-Dawley rats with kainic acid (10 mg/kg), pilocarpine (300 mg/kg, preceded by methylscopolamine 1 mg/kg sc) or pentylenetetrazol (PTZ, 50 mg/kg ip or 90 mg/kg sc). Time to onset of seizure activity, duration of seizure activity (for PTZ), seizure severity and weight change for KA and pilocarpine were determined for each animal. The brains from animals who had received kainic acid or pilocarpine were examined for neurodegeneration and severe neuronal stress, using fluorojade staining and immunoreactivity for HSP72, respectively. Results: The Rb extract had a dose-dependent anticonvulsant effect in all three models of chemically-induced seizures ? increasing the latency to the seizures, decreasing the seizure score, weight loss and subsequent neuronal damage after pilocarpine and kainic acid, and shortening the seizure duration and reducing mortality after PTZ. In some animals, the Rb extract completely blocked behavioral seizures after administration of kainic acid. The root preparation increased the mortality rate after administration of pilocarpine, but had no other significant effects. The leaves/stems preparation reduced the weight loss after pilocarpine, but had no other significant effects. The individual ginsenosides significantly increased the latency to onset of seizures after administration of kainic acid. Mixtures of purified Rb1, Rb3 with or without Rd had significant anticonvulsant effects in all three models of acutely-induced seizures demonstrating that the ginsenosides are the active components in the Rb extract. Conclusions: Ginseng extract made from either the root or leaves/stems are ineffective against chemically-induced seizures. A partial purification of the whole extract that concentrates the Rb1 and Rb3 ginsenosides has significant anticonvulsant properties. Since no one individual ginsenoside accounted for the majority of the activity of the Rb extract, the results suggest that the most effective anticonvulsant product is a combination of ginsenosides from the Rb group. In addition, the Rb extract and the individual ginsenosides have significant neuroprotective activity beyond the reduction in seizure severity and duration. (Supported by the Epilepsy Research Foundation New Therapies Program.) 1 Michael P. Macken, 2 Michael J. Boyd, 2 Patrick L. Alore, and 2 Robert T. Standring ( 1 Department of Neurology, Loyola University Medical Center, Maywood, IL ; and 2 Loyola University Chicago, Stritch School of Medicine, Maywood, IL ) Rationale: Levetiracetam is a novel anticonvulsant with a side-effect and pharmacokinetic profile which recommends it use in a number of clinical settings,including the patient who presents to the emergency room with acute onset siezures. Levetiracetam is particularly useful if patients are taking multiple other medications since it is renally excreted, non-protein-bound and neither inhibits nor induces hepatic enxzymes. An intravenous formulation of levetiracetam is not yet available for general use and many physicians have concerns regarding oral loading of anticonvulsants in the acute setting. Concerns regarding the need to achieve a rapid therapeutic level of an anticonvulsant were addressed by means of simultaneous intravenous loading of fosphenytoin or phenytoin combined with oral loading of levetiracetam, followed by levetiracetam monotherapy. Methods: Several patients were managed in the manner described above in the acute hospital setting, mainly emergency room admissions and but also some inpatients who suffered seizures in other clinical settings. Intravenous fosphenytoin was given at doses of 15?20 mgs/kg and combined with oral loading doses of levetiracetam ranging from 1000 ? 1500 mgs. A retrospective chart review was carried out to assess the efficacy of this approach in terms of short-term seizure control and side effect profile. Results: A total of 20 patients were identified who were treated according to this protocol. No adverse events were reported related to the use of oral levetiracetam dosing (1000?1500 mgs oral loading dose) although one patient suffered purple-glove syndrome due to phenytoin infusion. All patients remained seizure free over the 72 hours following combined loading, by which time levetiracetam concentrations had acheived steady-state concentrations. The majority were discharged on levetiracteam monotherapy and these patients were followed-up on an out-patient basis to assess long-term efficacy and side-effect profile. Conclusions: An intravenous preparation of levetiracetam will be available in the near future, however approval for intravenous loading as a first line therapy in the acute setting is unlikely to be obtained in the short-term. The approach outlined in this study combines the safety and experience of intravenous fosphenytoin loading with the pharmacokinetic advantages of maintenance LEV therapy. The use of one loading dose of fosphenytoin addresses the main concern of clinicians in the acute setting, namely the acheivement of immediate theraputic anticonvulsant levels, this is combined with the pharmacokinetic advantages of levetiracetam maintenance therapy. Based on the limited data available in this retrospective analysis, this approach appears to be safe and effective in terms of immediate seizure control and long-term maintenance therapy. (Supported by UCB Pharmal.) 1 Iratxe Maestro, 2 Albert Molins, 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, and 1 Joaquín Castillo ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clinic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital Josep Trueta, Girona, Girona, Spain ) Rationale: Pregabalin (PGB) is a new antiepileptic drug, availabe in Europe since February 2005, which has shown, in randomized clinical trials, efficacy and good tolerability as add-on treatment in patients with refractory epilepsy. Our objective was to study the efficacy and tolerability of PGB when used in every day clinical practice to treat refractory patients in two tertiary centers. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed 101 patients (60 women, 41 men) who received PGB as add on treatment for refractory seizures, at the Epilepsy Units of Hospital Clínic (Barcelona, Spain) and Hospital Joseph Trueta (Girona, Spain). Mean age was 40 years (16?64), mean time from seizure onset was 22 years (7?53), mean number of concomitant AEDs was 2.8. Most patients had temporal lobe epilepsy (43 patients), followed by frontal lobe epilepsy (29), unlocalized focal epilepsy (23 patients), parieto-occipital epilepsy (4 patients) and multifocal epilepsy (2). Seizures were highly refractory, with a mean number of seizures per month of 48.5. Mean follow up was 8 months (3?14). Results: Mean PGB dose used was 412.5 mg. Fifty three patients (52%) were responders (had ≥ 50% seizure reduction). A significant number of patients (14, 13.8%) became seizure free. Seizure frequency increased in 4 patients (3.6%). Three patients reported similar number of seizures but less severity (shorter seizures or absence of generalized tonic clonic convulsions). PGB was generally well tolerated. Sixty per cent of patients reported adverse events, being weight gain > 10% the most frequent, seen in 25 patients (24.7%). Dizziness/ataxia was seen in 14 patients (13.8%). Seven patients (6.9%) displayed lower limb edema not accompanied by metabolic disturbance, and 4 patients (3.9%) had dose-dependent blurred vision. Adverse effects were generally mild to moderate in severity. Twenty two patients discontinued PGB, either because of adverse effects (9 patients), inefficacy (6) or both (7 patients). Prescribing physicians rated 18 patients (17.8%) as ?highly improved,? 42 patients (41.5%) as ?improved,? 33 patients (32%) as ?unchanged,? 6 patients (5.9%) as ?worse? and 4 patients as ?much worse? (3.9%). Conclusions: PGB, when used in every day clinical practice, is effective and safe as add-on treatment in refractoy epilepsy. In our series of highly refractory patients, 52% had at least a 50% seizure reduction and 14% of patients became seizure free. Most frequent adverse events were weight gain and dizziness/ataxia. Most patients were rated as highly improved or improved by the prescribing physician. 1 Roberta Meo, 2 Leonilda Bilo, 2 Patrizia Ruosi, and 2 Maria Fulvia de Leva ( 1 Neurology Outpatients Service, Azienda Sanitaria Locale Napoli 1, Naples, Italy ; and 2 Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurological Sciences, Federico II University, Naples, Italy ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to evaluate efficacy and tolerability of levetiracetam (LEV) monotherapy in patients with post-traumatic epilepsy. Methods: Six patients with post-traumatic epilepsy entered the study. All presented complex partial seizures, with secondary generalization in 3 cases. At study enter 3 patients were already treated with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs): these patients were seizure free but all reported severe side effects related to AED treatment. The remaining 3 patients were not treated at study entry: two of them had received AEDs in the past, but had discontinued treatment because of side effects, while the last one was a 70-year old man who had never been treated with AEDs and who reported also severe memory disturbances after the trauma. These 3 patients still presented seizures. LEV was initially given as add on therapy in the 3 treated patients: concomitant AED treatment was slowly withdrawn in the following months and the patients were left on LEV monotherapy. The 3 untreated patients received LEV in monotherapy since the beginning. Follow up with LEV monotherapy was at least 12 months in all patients. Results: In the 3 patients who were already seizure free, switch from previous AED treatment to LEV monotherapy was accompanied by persisting complete control of seizures; side effects related to previous AED treatment disappeared with relevant improvement of quality of life. In the 3 untreated patients LEV resulted in complete seizure control without side effects. The elderly patient showed also a considerable improvement of memory disturbances, possibly related to control of infraclinic seizures. Conclusions: In our small series LEV was effective in treating post-traumatic seizures, showing also a good tolerability without adverse effects on memory, behaviour and cognitive state. This is particularly important since memory disturbances and cognitive impairment are frequent after severe head trauma. 1 John A. Messenheimer, and 2 Marianne Cunnington ( 1 Neurosciences Medicine Development Center, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ; and 2 Epidemiology, GlaxoSmithKline, United Kingdom ) Rationale: To characterize the overall risk of major congenital malformations (MCM) associated with exposure to lamotrigine. The international registry forms part of an epidemiologic safety program monitoring pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to lamotrigine that has been in operation since 1992. Methods: Physicians report exposure to lamotrigine during pregnancy and subsequent outcomes on a voluntary basis. Prospective reporting (prior to any knowledge regarding the possible outcome of the pregnancy) early in pregnancy is encouraged. Major congenital malformations (MCMs) are classified according to the Centers for Disease Control criteria and are reviewed by a paediatrician. The percentage of MCMs is calculated using only prospective first trimester lamotrigine monotherapy and polytherapy exposures. Conclusions are developed and endorsed by a scientific advisory committee. Results: As of September 2005, 20 MCMs were observed among 707 first trimester monotherapy exposures yeilding a risk of 2.8% (95% CI 1.8%? 4.4%). The observed risk among 118 lamotrigine and valproate polytherapy exposures was 11.8% (95% CI 6.8%? 19.3%) and was 2.7% (95% CI 1.2%? 5.8%) among 256 exposures to lamotrigine polytherapy without valproate. The mean and median monotherapy doses for subjects with MCMs respectively were 250.7 and 200 mg/day; the mean and median doses for those without defects were 281.1 and 200 mg/day. No consistent pattern of malformation types was observed. Conclusions: The current data do not indicate any substantial increase in the overall risk of major defects associated with prenatal lamotrigine exposure, though the sample size is insufficient to allow definitive conclusions concerning specific defect types. The higher frequency of major malformations following lamotrigine-valproate polytherapy exposure was consistent with publications on valproate monotherapy. Continued registration of exposed pregnancies will enhance the statistical power of the study and the data available for physicians to assess the benefit-risk of lamotrigine use in pregnancy. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development.) 1 Paul H. McCabe, 1 Cathy D. McNew, and 1 Nancy C. Michel ( 1 Neurology, Penn State, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA ) Rationale: Weight gain is associated with valproic acid/divalproex sodium therapy. However, long-term data which quantifies weight changes seen in epilepsy patients receiving the drug is lacking. We report on the long-term changes that occur in patients taking the drug. Methods: Patients started on valproic acid (VPA) in the form of divalproex sodium at Penn State, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center were offered the opportunity to participate in the study. Initial weights were recorded prior to starting therapy. Weights were recorded at each visit on the same digital scale. Concomitant medications were recorded. Results: Forty-two patients entered the study. One was lost to follow-up, leaving 41 patients for analysis. There were 17 female and 24 male patients. Mean age was 33.1 years with a range of 17 to 69 years of age. Focal onset seizures were present in 27 patients, 5 were primary generalized, and 9 patients had features of both, making it difficult to determine the class. Mean VPA dosage was 1659 mg/day with mean VPA doses ranging from 500 ? 4846 mg/day. Time on therapy ranged from 12 ? 138 months with a mean of 56 months. Mean starting weight was 75.4 kg with a range from 46.4 ? 131.8 kg. Weight gain was defined as an increase in weight of 5% or more while on VPA therapy. Weight gain was seen in 26 patients (63.4%) with the mean weight gained at time of maximum weight being 19% of initial body weight. Weight gain ranged from 5.18%? 56.5% of initial weight. Four patients did not maintain maximum weight and by the end of the study, only 22 patients (53.7%) had weights greater than 5% of start weights. Mean time to maximal weight gain was 44.2 months, with a range of 10 ? 124 months. Male patients had a higher tendency toward weight gain, with 17 of the 24 males (70.8%) experiencing weight gain. Of 17 female patients, 9 (52.9%) demonstrated weight gain. A comparison based on seizure type was also looked at, but numbers were small. Fifteen of 27 (55.6%) focal onset patients and 3 of 5 (60%) patients with primary generalized onset experienced weight gain. Interestingly, 8 of the 9 patients with features of both focal and generalized onset demonstrated weight gain. Patients with weight gain were on a mean VPA dose of 1791 mg/day, compared to 1429 mg/day in patients without weight gain. Conclusions: Weight gain occurred in 63.4% of patients receiving VPA, although only 53.7% demonstrated weight gain by the end of the study. The mean maximum weight gained was 19% of initial body weight. Mean time to maximum weight was 44.2 months. Weight gain was more likely in male patients and patients on higher dosages of VPA. No significant difference was noted in focal onset versus primary generalized, although numbers for the latter were small. Interestingly, 88.9% of patients with features of both focal onset and primary generalized epilepsy (unclear onset) demonstrated weight gain. 1 James M. Miller, 1 Anne E. Hammer, 1 Robert P. Kustra, and 1 John A. Messenheimer ( 1 Neurosciences Medicine Development Centre, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Approximately 30% of people with epilepsy (PWE) spontaneously report depressed mood as a significant problem having a negative effect on quality of life (QoL). Within the general population, over half of adults with depression also suffer from a diagnosable anxiety disorder. Increasingly, the literature suggests that PWE may also experience significant symptoms of anxiety. The Profile of Mood States (POMS) evaluates a wide number of mood states, including anxiety, and is useful for evaluating drug therapy interventions. The 31-item Quality of Life Inventory in Epilepsy (QOLIE-31) is a validated questionnaire which measures epilepsy-specific items such as seizure worry and broader items such as emotional well being and social functioning. Lamotrigine (LTG) is an antiepileptic drug (AED) that has been shown to improve mood, social interaction and overall wellbeing in PWE. This analysis investigated the correlation of anxiety with depression and quality of life in PWE and comorbid depressive symptoms, and changes following the addition of LTG to AED therapy. Methods: This was a multicenter open-label study. Lamotrigine was added onto a stable AED regimen in the adjunctive phase and became a single agent in the monotherapy phase. Patients were eligible if they had epilepsy, exhibited depressive symptoms [Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) ≥ 12] but excluded if they had a Major Depressive Disorder as determined by a Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview. Depression was measured with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II); anxiety and quality of life were measured with the POMS anxiety domain and QOLIE-31 scale respectively. Evaluations were conducted at baseline, at the end of the adjunctive phase (Week 19) and the monotherapy phase (Week 36). Statistical analysis was done using paired t-tests and Spearman correlations. Results: A total of 158 PWE (102 women, 56 men) enrolled into the study; 96 patients completed the adjunctive phase and 66 completed monotherapy. Mean baseline, end of adjunctive and monotherapy scores for BDI-II were 17.4, 11.6, and 7.7; for POMS anxiety, the scores were 14.9, 11.8 and 9.4; for QOLIE-31 the scores were 53.1, 64.8 and 72.3. POMS anxiety scores correlated with BDI-II at baseline (0.584) and with QOLIE-31 (?0.571); after adjunctive therapy, correlations were 0.618 and ?0.591. With monotherapy, the correlations were 0.610 and ?0.631. All change scores were significant at p < 0.001 and all correlations were significant at p < 0.0001. Conclusions: This evaluation suggests that anxiety is present in PWE who also exhibit depressive symptoms, and may contribute to low QoL scores reported in this population. The addition of LTG to the AED regimen significantly improved measures of both anxiety and depression with resulting improvement in quality of life. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development.) 1 Tracey A. Milligan, and 1 Edward B. Bromfield ( 1 Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Early post-operative seizures are well recognized and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are commonly used despite limited evidence of a prophylactic or antiepileptogenic benefit. Phenytoin (PHT), the most commonly used AED, has well known adverse reactions. Levetiracetam (LEV) has a low incidence of serious reactions. However, its safety and efficacy in the perioperative period have not been evaluated. Methods: A research patient database was used to identify nonepileptic patients who had supratentorial neurosurgery at Brigham and Women's or Massachusetts General Hospitals, during a five year period (1/1999?12/2004) and were followed for at least 7 days. The electronic medical records of patients who received LEV monotherapy were analyzed. A control group consisting of PHT monotherapy patients (2:1 vs. LEV) was randomly selected. The following procedures were excluded: pressure measurement devices, external and internal ventricular drainage. Records were reviewed for rate of seizures (at presentation, 1 week postoperatively, and development of epilepsy in those patients followed for at least one year). The other main outcome assessed was rate of adverse reactions during the postoperative period. Chi-square and Fisher's tests were used for intergroup comparisons. Results: 105 LEV patients were identified. They were 39% male. Mean age was 55 (range 29?88). The 210 PHT patients were 47% male. Mean age was 64 (range 23?95). LEV dose ranged from 500 to 3000 mg/d, with 1000 mg/d used most frequently. The LEV diagnoses were 41% glial tumors, 10% meningiomas, 11% metastases, 21% hemorrhages, 10% vascular malformations, 4% infections, and 3% other. The PHT diagnoses were 27% glial tumors, 17% meningiomas, 13% metastases, 24% hemorrhages, 7% vascular malformations, 2% infections, and 10% other. Of the 105 LEV patients, 33 had presented with a seizure vs 57/210 PHT patients (p = 0.26). 1 LEV patient (1%) had an early postoperative seizure (within the first 7 days), vs 9 PHT patients (4%) (p = 0.28). Mean follow-up for the LEV group was 12 mo, vs 20 mo for PHT. 42 LEV patients were followed for one year or more and 11/42 (26%) developed epilepsy, vs 42/117 (36%) on PHT (p = 0.32). Adverse reactions prompting a change in AED during the hospitalization occurred in 1/105 (1%) LEV patients (visual hallucinations), vs 38/210 (18%) PHT patients (p < 0.001). These reactions consisted of allergy (2), rash (22), fever (8), tremors (1), cytopenia (3), rhabdomyolysis (1), and cognitive change (1). Of the LEV group with epilepsy followed for at least 12 months, 7/11 remained on levetiracetam (64%) vs 11/42 (26%) on phenytoin (p = 0.025). Conclusions: Both LEV and PHT are associated with a low risk of early post-operative seizures and a moderate risk of later epilepsy. LEV is associated with significantly fewer adverse reactions, an attractive feature particularly when an agent is being used prophylactically, as well as with a higher retention rate in patients who developed epilepsy. (Supported by UCB Pharma Young Investigators Award.) 1 Navid Mostofi, 1 Mercedes P. Jacobson, 1 Zulfi Haneef, and 2 John O. Elliott ( 1 Neurology, Temple University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Comprehensive Cancer Center, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Osteoporosis (OP) is an important complication of long term anti-epileptic treatment in patients with epilepsy. Calcium and vitamin D supplementation have been traditionally used to prevent this condition. Although bisphosphonates are approved for treatment and prevention of OP in post-menopausal women and with men with osteoporosis, there is paucity of evidence measuring the efficacy of this group of medications in men receiving anti-epileptic treatment. Methods: Retrospective review of charts of all male subjects with epilepsy at our center identified subjects with OP secondary to chronic antiepileptic therapy. Treatment and response to treatment for men with OP were investigated, specifically by looking at response to bisphosphonates as assessed by DEXA scan. Standard practice in our center is to recommend calcium, vitamin D and exercise for all individuals, regardless of bone density. Results: Seventy three male subjects were screened. Twenty six had Osteopenia and 15 had OP. Nine of the OP subjects received bisphosphonates as a part of their treatment. Of these, 5 (mean age 43.6; range 23?69 years) completed a second DEXA scan by 6/1/06. Calcium, vitamin D and exercise were recommended for all 5 subjects, but only 2/5 could perform moderate exercise. Table 1 demostrates the T scores of OP subjects at baseline, and after treatment with bisphosphonates. Comparison of T scores of subjects with OP before and after treatment with bisphosphanates Subject # DEXA 1(spine) DEXA 1(hip) DEXA 2(spine) DEXA 2(hip) Interval (months) 1 ?1.8 ?3.5 ?1.9 ?3.5 17 2 ?3.6 ?2.9 ?3.3 ?2.9 18 3 ?3.7 ?1.8 ?4.7 ?1.4 26 4 ?3.0 ?2.7 23 5 ?4.1 ?1.8 ?3.2 ?1.6 30 As shown in the table, 80% (4/5) of the subjects had either stabilization or increase in their bone density after being treated with bisphosphonates. Of the 4 responders, only on demonstrated increased bone density. Conclusions: Bisphosphonate therapy appears effective in reducing the progression of osteoporosis in men using antiepileptic medications. Specific patient co-morbidities could contribute to this observation, but it may be important to prevent, screen and treat metabolic bone disease much earlier in men with epilepsy. This is an on-going study; as more males with OP complete 18 months of bisphosphonate therapy, these results may change. 1 Kevin Nanry, 2 Eugene Ramsay, 3 Martha Sajatovic, 1 Eric Bourne, and 1 Thomas Thompson ( 1 Psychiatry, GlaxoSmithKline, RTP, NC ; 2 International Center Epilepsy, University of Miami, Maimi, FL ; and 3 Psychiatry, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: In spite of wide clinical use, there is a paucity of data on anticonvulsant drugs in elderly patients with psychiatric and neurological disorders. The authors conducted a systemized analysis of the literature on lamotrigine (LTG) therapy in elderly patients with BD, epilepsy, or dementia. Methods: The search included electronic databases, meeting abstracts and presentations. Results: Fourteen reports included controlled trials, retrospective analyses, and case studies. Reports of LTG in geriatric BD suggest improvement in depression, core manic symptoms and delay in mood relapse. Mean dose in larger samples was 182?240 mg/day. Controlled trials in geriatric epilepsy demonstrated efficacy and tolerability comparable to gabapentin. Compared to carbamazepine, there were fewer treatment withdrawals and fewer cases of somnolence or rash in the lamotrigine group. Preliminary reports in dementia note improvement in cognition, agitation and depression. While elimination of LTG can be affected by increasing age, disposition is more directly impacted by concurrent anticonvulsant therapy. There is extensive variability in LTG concentration/dose (C/D) ratios across the age-span, but as a group C/D ratios increase through adulthood. Conclusions: LTG appears effective and was well tolerated in older adults with BD, epilepsy and dementia. Incidence and severity of adverse events appears similar to that established in younger patient populations. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Wayne M. Alves, 1 Yuhua Li, 2 Virinder Nohria, on behalf of the 212 Study Investigators ( 1 Research  and 2 Clinical Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Both weight gain and weight loss have been associated with many antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). AED-associated changes in weight appear slowly and over the long-term with therapy. Retigabine is a novel AED that enhances the potassium currents mediated by human KCNQ2/3 and KCNQ3/5 potassium channels and is currently undergoing global phase 3 studies as adjunctive treatment for partial-onset seizures in adults with refractory epilepsy. In this report data from Study 212, a long-term open-label extension of a double-blind phase 2 trial [1], were analyzed to characterize weight changes with long-term retigabine adjunctive therapy. Methods: 399 patients (age range: 16?70 years, baseline seizure frequency: ≥4 seizures/month) participated in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial. Study design included an 8-week baseline and 16-week double-blind treatment period (8-week forced titration and 8-week maintenance). Patients received placebo or retigabine 600, 900, or 1200 mg/day and up to 2 approved AEDs. 279 patients completed the study and 222 enrolled in the open-label extension (Study 212). Patients could receive 600?1200 mg/day of retigabine. Body weight and adverse events were evaluated over time. Body weight changes and absolute body weight were calculated at various times during the treatment period. Results: Of the 222 patients included in the analysis, 56.8% were male, and mean age was 36.1 years (range: 14?66 years). 47.3% of patients received retigabine 900 mg/day and 23.4% received 1200 mg/day as their maximum dosage. The mean duration of therapy was 352.5 days (range: 5?682 days). Body weight remained stable throughout the long-term extension study (Table). The mean difference in weight at 1 year was 2.2 kg (73.4?75.6 kg). Increased body weight was reported as a treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) by 3 patients (1.4%), while 2 patients discontinued the study due to increased weight, although in 1 patient this was not considered to be a TEAE. TABLE Absolute Body Weight With Adjunctive Retigabine Therapy Body weight (kg) Open-Label Extension Study Day Baseline (n = 222) 90 (n = 193) 180 (n = 175) 270 (n = 143) 360 (n = 188) 450 (n = 83) 540 (n = 94) Mean 73.4 75.4 74.9 75.0 75.6 72.1 72.48 Range 47?134 47?136 48?135 45?135 48?136 48?115 49?133 Conclusions: Long-term adjunctive therapy with retigabine 600 to 1200 mg/day is not associated with weight gain. References 1.?Porter P, Alves W, Nohria V, et al. World Congress of Neurology, 2005 ( Sydney , Australia ). (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International.) 1 Oladotun Okunola, 2 Yong Won Cho, 3 Kimford J. Meador, and 1 Gholam K. Motamedi ( 1 Department of Neurology, Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, DC ; 2 Department of Neurology, Dongsan Medical Center, Keimyung University, Taegu, Republic of Korea ; and 3 Department of Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Patients who have failed treatment with an antiepileptic drug (AED) are less likely to become seizure-free on monotherapy with any other agent. There is little established evidence regarding the efficacy of specific polytherapy combinations. We compared the efficacy of polytherapy with levetiracetam (LEV) and lamotrigine (LTG) with monotherapy with either one of these agents. Methods: We reviewed antiepileptic drug regimens of 91 patients with epilepsy treated from 2000?2006. The patients' response to monotherapy with LEV (N 42) and LTG (N 37), were compared to polytherapy using LEV+LTG (N 12). These patients had failed other AEDs and were placed on LTG and/or LEV for seizure control. We measured the decrease in seizure frequency per month using paired Student's t-test. Results: Patients treated with LEV monotherapy showed a significant decrease in mean seizure frequency (from 2.02 to 0.86, p < 0.048). Patients treated with LTG monotherapy had an increase in mean seizure frequency but this difference was not significant (from 2.14 to 3.11, p < 0.56). Patients treated with LEV and LTG polytherapy showed a significant decrease in their mean seizure frequency (from 10.5 to 0.5, p < 0.07). Conclusions: These findings suggest that monotherapy with LEV and polytherapy using LEV and LTG in combination may be more effective than monotherapy with LTG alone. These results could be due to efficacy of either LEV or the LEV-LTG combination. Direct comparisons of patients sequentially treated with LEV and LTG and then with LEV and LTG together would be needed to determine this. 1 Nicola Paciello, 2 Pier Nicola Marchi, 1 Michele Chiummiento, 3 Salvatore Mazza, and 1 Marcantonio Paciello ( 1 Neuroscience Department, Neurology Unit, San Carlo Hospital, Potenza, Italy ; 2 Neurology Unit, San Giovanni di Dio Hospital, Cagliari, Italy ; and 3 Neuroscience Department, Institute of Neurology, Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy ) Rationale: We describe the efficacy and tolerability of levetiracetam (LEV) versus carbamazepine (CBZ) in treatment of epileptic elderly patients. Methods: The population of the study is composed by 24 consecutive newly diagnosed outpatient, 14 males and 10 females, referred to our epilepsy centres because of at least two unprovoked seizures in last 12 months. Each patient has performed a standard EEG, a brain MRI and a self-administered quality of life questionnaire (SF-36) at first visit. All patients have performed an EEG and a SF-36 questionnaire at 12 weeks, 24 weeks and at 48 weeks of follow up. We divided these patients in two groups: 12 patients out of 24 with LEV at dosage of 1000 mg a day (LEV group) and 12 patients out of 24 with CBZ at dosage of 600 mg a day (CBZ group). Both treatments have been used as monotherapy. Results: 17 patients, 9 out of 17 including in LEV group and 8 out of 17 including in CBZ group, showed minimal MRI abnormalities consisting of point lacunar infarcts of white and/or grey matter of the brain. 9 out of 24 patients, 6 of LEV group and 3 of CBZ group, showed minimal EEG abnormalities at basal evaluation consisting of focal theta waves that have disappeared after 12 weeks of treatment in all patients. All patients have been seizure-free for 48 weeks of follow up except 3 patients, 2 on CBZ and 1 on LEV that have presented a motor partial seizure: in these patients we have increased the dosage respectively to 800 mg a day and 1500 mg a day. All LEV group have completed the follow up period remaining on original drug with a retention rate of 100%, while 3 patients of CBZ group have discontinued therapy for intolerable side effects: 2 patients showed marked somnolence and one patient showed dizziness. For this reason the retention rate of CBZ group has been 75%. SF-36 findings showed a poor impact of treatment on quality of life in all LEV group, while data of CBZ group showed a light worsening in some items of the questionnaire in 4 out of 12 patients. Conclusions: Retention in the study has been significantly better for LEV than for CBZ. CBZ caused significantly more side effects than LEV, resulting in earlier termination of treatment. Optimal dose of both drugs may be lower in elderly compared with general epileptic population. The efficacy of LEV and CBZ is very similar, but the impact of drug on quality of life is perceived in pretty different manner by patients. Even though it is necessary a larger population, we believe that LEV should be considered as possible first-line therapy for new onset seizures in the elderly. 1 Aldo Paggi, 1 Andrea Ortenzi, 1 Nicoletta Foschi, and 1 Sheila Catani ( 1 Epilepsy Center ? Department of Neurological Sciences, Azienda Ospedali Riuniti, Ancona, Italy ) Rationale: Some newer antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) such as Levetiracetam (LEV) show a better tolerability and less interaction with concomitant medications than older AEDs. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of LEV as add-on therapy or as substitutive monotherapy in adolescent and adult patients (pts) with refractory epilepsy (E) or with a poor tolerability of previous AEDs treatment. Methods: prospective, open-label, not controlled trial in which LEV was given as add on therapy or in substitution of previous monotherapy. LEV was started at 500 mg/day dose and progressively up titrated over 1?2 weeks by 500 mg/day every third day to a maximum dose of 2000?3000 mg/day. We report preliminary data about 30 pts (10 M and 20 F; mean age 42.47, sd = 19.69, min 17 max 86). Pts suffering from symptomatic encephalopathies, general diseases and history of psychiatric disorders and/or pseudo seizures, which could modify the seizure semiology and their frequency, were excluded. In 17 pts LEV was given as add on (group I) and 13 switched from previous AED to LEV monotherapy (group II). The mean follow-up was 88.15 days (SD = 44.27, min.3, max 160). Demographic and aetiological aspects were comparable in the 2 groups: mean age 41 (group I) vs 43 (group II); pts mainly affected by focal epilepsy in both groups with no cases of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome; mean seizure frequency at baseline was comparable in both groups.In group I we added LEV without modifying the previous AED therapy (number of AEDs: mean 2.18); in group II we switched previous AED to LEV. Therapy modification in group I was due to inefficacy in 9 pts, AEs in 3 pts and both in 5. In group II it was due to inefficacy in 7 pts, AEs in 3 pts and both in 3. Results: Efficacy: in group I (LEV as add on therapy) 14/17 pts resulted evaluable (2 pts withdrew consent and 1 had a too short follow-up (<30 days). At cut-off date (May 31st 2006), 9 pts (64.3%) were seizure-free, 2 (14.3%) had a > 50% seizure frequency reduction and 3 (21.4%) were unchanged or worsened seizure frequency. In group II (LEV as monotherapy) 11/13 pts resulted evaluable (1 pt withdrew consent and 1 had a too short follow-up (<30 days). At cut-off date, 7 pts (63.6%) were seizure-free, 3 (27.3%) showed a > 50% seizure frequency reduction and 1 (9.1%) remained unchanged. Seizure type or aetiology did not appear correlated to the efficacy of LEV in pts with focal E.Tolerability: 7/30 pts (23.3%) reported AEs, which led to drug discontinuation in 2 cases. The most frequent AE resulted gastralgia (3 pts). Conclusions: These preliminary results (the study foresees the enrollment of 80?100 pts and a follow up period of at least 12 months) suggest the good efficacy and tolerability of LEV in epileptic pts both as add-on therapy and as monotherapy. The study is currently ongoing and final data will be presented as soon as available. 1 Page B. Pennell, 1 Archana Koganti, 2 Limin Peng, 1 Melanee Newman, 1,3 Denicia Holley, and 3 Zachary Stowe ( 1 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ; 2 School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ; and 3 Psychiatry, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Pregnancy in women with epilepsy (WWE) is accompanied by increased fetal risks due to both antiepileptic drug (AED) exposure and maternal seizures (sz). Relatively low rates of major malformations on lamotrigine (LTG) has led to its increased use during childbearing years. However, observational studies indicate that LTG clearance (Cl) markedly increases during pregnancy, and sz worsening has been reported in 45?75% of women on LTG monotherapy. Maternal seizures, especially of the convulsive type, have been associated with fetal loss, fetal hypoxia, and poor neurodevelopmental outcomes. Methods: WWE on AEDs either during or planning a pregnancy were consented to participate in a prospective study. Subset analysis was performed on all WWE on LTG monotherapy who had adequate baseline information about sz frequency and preconception target LTG concs (n = 30). Although no specific protocol was mandated by the study, results of LTG concs were actively used for therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM). Recommendations to adjust LTG dose were made according to the pt's sz type(s), epilepsy syndrome, sz frequency, history of LTG-related side effects, gestational age, and what was considered that individual's target conc. For each trimester (TM), we coded relative frequency of all-type sz's as 1 if number of sz's was greater than baseline, and 0 otherwise. For each TM, we calculated the ratio to target concentration (RTC) as LTG conc/target LTG conc from baseline. Results: Seizures worsened during pregnancy in 28% of pts and convulsive seizures worsened in 10% (Figure 1). RTC values of pts with worsened sz frequency were lower than RTC values of those with stable seizures in the 2nd TM (p < 0.001) and the 3rd TM (p = 0.05) but not the 1st TM. Similar significant findings occurred if definitions were 1.5x and 2x increase in sz frequency. Convulsive seizures doubled in 10% of pregnancies; impact of RTC was not significant. Conclusions: This analysis demonstrates that seizure worsening during pregnancy is associated with a low RTC, and that improved results for sz control can be achieved with an active TDM approach. However, this extent of sz control is not ideal and development of a population pharmacokinetic model that will define a treatment plan and dosing paradigm for LTG use during pregnancy, adaptable to the individual patient, is necessary to improve the maternal and fetal well-being of our patients further. [figure 1] (Supported by Specialized Center of Research P50 MH 68036.) 1 Jyoti A. Pillai, 1 Ijaz Malik, 1 Kamil J. Detyniecki, and 1 Sigmund Jenssen ( 1 Neurology, Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: The incidence of osteoporosis varies amongst different ethnic groups, because of variations in skeletal architecture, bone turnover, and bone mass, with genetic factors also playing a role. Osteoporosis is more common amongst Caucasians as compared to African-Americans. Patients with chronic epilepsy are at greater risk for bone loss, not only due to enzyme inducing anti-epileptic drugs, but also due to other causes like decreased physical activity, poor dietary intake, and dietary restrictions like the ketogenic diet. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether African-Americans with chronic epilepsy are at less risk for developing bone loss as compared to Caucasians. Methods: A retrospective chart review was performed on all patients followed at the Epilepsy Center at Drexel University College of Medicine. Inclusion criteria were: age greater than 18 years, patients on any anticonvulsant medication for at least two years, at least one DEXA scan performed two years after initiation of treatment, and being either of African-American or Caucasian race. We compared the prevalence of osteopenia/osteoporosis in each ethnic group. Results: 210 charts were reviewed and 49 met the inclusion criteria. Of these 26 were African-Americans and 23 were Caucasians. Mean age for the entire population was 50.02 years (range 23 to 83), with the mean age for African-Americans being 52.07 years and for the Caucasian group being 49.6 years. 24 were female (14 of these were African-American) and 25 were male (11 of these were African-American). There was no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of osteoporosis/osteopenia between the two ethnic groups, with 17 African-American patients (8 males) and 15 Caucasian patients (10 males), representing 65% in each group, being found to have decreased bone mineral density on DEXA scan as defined by the WHO criteria (chi square = 0.083; p = 0.773). The average T value (the lowest T value at either the lumbar spine, the femoral neck, or the distal wrist) in Caucasians was ?1.98, whereas in African-Americans, it was ?2.33. Of all patients, 20 were treated for more than 10 years with AEDs, 13 of these were African-Americans. 14 of these 20 (70%) had decreased bone density, 9 of whom were African-Americans. 18 out of 29 patients on AEDs for less than 10 years had decreased bone mineral density (62%). Duration of treatment did not correlate with bone loss (chi square = 0.32, p < 1). Conclusions: There was no statistically significant difference in bone mineral density between the African-American and Caucasian patient groups with chronic epilepsy. The most likely reason for this is that decrease in bone mineral density in patients with chronic epilepsy is multifactorial. To investigate if ethnicity is a protective factor against bone loss secondary to chronic AED use, a prospective study needs to be undertaken. 1 John R. Pollard, 1 Susan T. Herman, 1 Brian Litt, 1 Ruth S. Krieger, and 1 Jacqueline A. French ( 1 Department of Neurology, Division of Epilepsy, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Clinical trials are not designed to detect rare adverse events or adverse events with a long induction time. In contrast, a rigorous prospective post-marketing study that catalogues data from clinical practice can detect these types of adverse events while avoiding the biases that are sometimes found in retrospective trials. This type of survey was initiated to detect rare or late adverse events caused by the use of pregabalin. Methods: Epilepsy patients started on pregabalin were enrolled prospectively as our center's contribution to the multicenter Post-marketing Antiepileptic Drug Survey. 40 patients were enrolled at our center so far. Results: 23 patients with partial seizures have three month follow up. The average age was 43.6 years. The mean duration of epilepsy was 25 years, and the mean number of concomitant antiepileptic drugs was 2.7. The initially prescribed titration dose was a median 300mg and at 3 months the median dose was unchanged. 78% reported at least one adverse event. The common adverse events were: weight gain, ataxia or dyscoordination, fatigue, dizziness, headache, myoclonus and edema. One patient reported symptoms consistent with subacute onset of bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome. The median weight gain was 6 lbs, and the mean was 4.6 lbs. 56% of patients were found to have had some weight gain, and those that did gained an average of 8.5 lbs. 22% lost an average of 4.6 pounds. The discontinuation rate was 17.4%. 52.2% of patients reported a decrease in seizure frequency. Conclusions: These results are similar to those described in one of the pivotal clinical trials assessing the efficacy of pregabalin[1]. The population of the current study differed from the clinical trial in 2 ways: the patients were older in age by 4 years and the number of concomitant antiepileptic drugs used at initiation was 2.7 versus the 1.7 in the randomized controlled trial. Interestingly, the rate of adverse events was close at similar dosages (78% vs. 84%). The most common adverse events were detected, and the weight gain data are very close to that reported for the highest dose in the clinical trial (4.6 vs. 5.0 lbs). In addition, the discontinuation rate was similar (17.4% vs. 14%). It is very encouraging that these early data so closely parallel that of a published prospective clinical trial. This suggests that the study design is sound and that it will be a sensitive tool for detecting adverse drug events such as those that are rare or that manifest later in treatment. Further follow-up for the full cohort will be presented at the meeting. [1] French JA, Kugler AR, Robbins JL, Knapp LE, Garofalo EA. Dose-response trial of pregabalin adjunctive therapy in patients with partial seizures.Neurology. 2003 May 27;60(10):1631?7. (Supported by Current funding by Pfizer. Recent funding UCB, Ortho-McNeil, Glaxo-Wellcome, Elan Pharmaceuticals, Novartis.) 1 Baralee Prasittisopin, 2 R. Eugene Ramsay, 2 Flavia M. Macias, 3 A. James Rowan, 4 Joseph F. Collins, 1 Richard C. Brundage, and 1 Angela K. Birnbaum ( 1 Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ; 2 VA Medical Center, Miami, FL ; 3 VA Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; and 4 VA Medical Center, Perry Point, MD ) Rationale: Little information of LTG pharmacokinetics is available in elderly patients. The aims of this study were to 1) estimate the oral clearance (CL/F) of LTG and 2) identify and quantify covariate effects that significantly affect CL/F. Methods: Data from VA Cooperative Study 428, a randomized, double-blind, parallel group, monotherapy comparison study of carbamazepine (CBZ), gabapentin (GBP), and lamotrigine (LTG), were used for the analysis (n = 593). Patients 60 years and older with newly diagnosed seizures were randomly assigned to one of three treatments. Data from the LTG arm were used in this study. Thirty six patients on PHT at enrollment were gradually withdrawn during the 6-week titration of LTG. Clinical evaluations including blood samples were obtained at enrollment, biweekly to week 8, monthly to week 28, and bimonthly to the end of the study(week 52). Analyses were performed using NONMEM. A one-compartment model with first-order absorption and elimination was used. The absorption rate constant (Ka) could not be estimated and were fixed to the literature values of 3.5 hr?1. Inter-individual variability was modeled using an exponential error model. The residual unexplained variability was modeled using a combined additive and proportional error model. Covariate selection was done by forward selection (p < 0.01; ?2) and backward elimination (p < 0.001; ?2) using the likelihood ratio test as the model selection criterion. Results: The data consisted of 875 observations from 148 patients. It was found that weight, BUN/creatinine ratio, and phenytoin (PHT) use were significant covariates for clearance in the final model. Race was inititially significant but found to be correlated to BUN/creatinine ratio. The final regression model was determined to be: CL/F =[(0.0332 ? BUN/creatinine ratio) + (0.0268 ? weight)]? 1.59(if using phenytoin) Therefore, CL/F was estimated to be 2.64 L/hr, for patients weighing 80 kg, and a BUN/creatinine ratio 15:1. CL/F increased 59% in patients using PHT. Interindividual variability for CL/F of LTG was 34.2%. Percent CV and standard deviation for residual unexplained variability were 19.8% and 0.31 mcg/ml respectively. Conclusions: In our study, weight, BUN/creatinine ratio, and PHT use were significantly predictive of clearance. The effect of BUN/creatinine ratio on CL/F of LTG may be due to a surrogate effect of race. PHT, a known enzyme inducer, increases CL/F of LTG in elderly patients more than 50%. The results from this study may be useful for individualizing dose regimens in this population based on patient-specific covariates. (Supported by NIH NINDS P50-NS16308 and the VA Cooperative Study 428.) 1 Eugene R. Ramsay, and 2 Albert T. Leung ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami, FL ; and 2 Johnson  in 52% of the TPM 96 group, and in 44% of the TPM 192 group. Conclusions: In obese adults, bone turnover as measured with the urinary biomarker NTX was similar in TPM and placebo groups during long-term (?6 months) exposure. (Supported by Johnson  2 Department of Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ; and 3 MINCEP Epilepsy Care, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Lamotrigine (LTG) is a commonly prescribed antiepileptic drug. We are studying LTG pharmacokinetics (PK) in young and elderly patients with an intravenous, stable-labeled LTG formulation. This is a preliminary report on the safety and tolerability of the formulation. Methods: Adult patients (>18 years) without significant cardiac problems or interacting co-medications were enrolled. Patients on steady-state maintenance LTG therapy were given a single 50 mg replacement dose of the [13C2,15N]-LTG (SL-LTG) formulation as part of their daily regimen. The remainder of their daily dose was given orally. Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) data were collected prior to infusion, every 2 minutes during infusion, and every 15 minutes for the first hour following the completion of the infusion. An EKG was taken before and during the infusion. The mean and standard deviation of HR and BP at baseline, end of infusion, and 30 minutes post-infusion were determined. A value of p ≤ 0.05 was considered significant. The study nurse monitored the infusion site for inflammation during the infusion and at the time that the indwelling catheter was removed. Patients were asked during the infusion if they were experiencing discomfort at the infusion site or any other symptoms. Results: Five younger women (age 25?48 years) have completed the study. LTG daily doses ranged from 200?800 mg/day. There were no significant changes from baseline in EKG in any of the subjects studied. Table 1 presents the changes in vital signs in subjects as compared to their baseline, pre-infusion time point. The minimum and maximum observed BP or HR did not occur at the same time in each individual. No subject reported discomfort at the injection site or any adverse events. There was no evidence of inflammation at the site of infusion. Conclusions: Our preliminary data indicate that this intravenous LTG formulation is safe and well tolerated when administered to relatively healthy adult patients. Baseline End of infusion 30 minutes post-infusion p-value Mean Systolic (mmHg) ?121 ± 15.2 ?117 ± 12.0 ??115 ± 16.7 0.84 % change* ?2.4 ± 8.3? ?4.8 ± 4.1 0.58 Mean Diastolic (mmHg) 74.4 ± 10.3 74.2 ± 12.1 ?65.2 ± 16.6 0.48 % change 0.05 ± 4.5? ??13.0 ± 12.8? 0.07 Mean HR (beats per min) ?74 ± 4.8 ?70 ± 8.1 ?77.2 ± 6.4? 0.29 % change ?4.3 ± 6.1? ?4.5 ± 8.6 0.13 *% change from each individual's baseline measurements (Supported by NINDS P-50NS16308 and MO1-RR00400, M01-RR00039.) 1 William E. Rosenfeld, 1 Susan M. Lippmann, 1 Patty Schaefer, and 1 Diane Vogler ( 1 Neurology, The Comprehensive Epilepsy Care Center for Children and Adults, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: The past 15 years have seen the release of several new antiepileptic medications. The last to be released was pregabalin in September 2005. We reviewed the patients that had been started on pregabalin at The Comprehensive Epilepsy Care Center For Children and Adults, St Louis, Mo from September 2005-May 2006. The patients were evaluated for improvement in sz frequency, as well as for side effects. Methods: All patients that were started on pregabalin were included in the analysis. Efficacy and side effect data were recorded as of patients' last clinic/phone contact. Efficacy was evaluated, particularly as to greater than 50% reduction in sz frequency. Patients could be taking any number of other antiepileptic drugs and/or have a vagus nerve stimulator in place. Results: 50 patients were enrolled consecutively in this study. 4 patients withdrew due to side effects ? 1 due to dizziness, 1 due to fatigue, 1 due to hallucinations (patient with previous history of such), and 1 due to reported increased urinary frequency. 2 patients' data were incomplete. 44 patients remained on pregabalin. 23/44 (52%) had greater than 50% reduction in seizures. 7/44 (16%) were seizure free. Mean dosage of pregabalin was 342 mg/day (range 100mg to 700 mg/day). Patients were taking pregabalin on an average of 5.4 months (ranging from 2 to 9 months). Patients were on 2.2 concomitant antiepileptic drugs (ranging from 0 to 4 antiepileptic drugs). 8/48 patients (16.7%) reported dizziness as their most common side effect. This was often transient in the first few days of usage of pregabalin. 6/48 patients (12.5%) reported fatigue. 5/48 patients (10.4%) reported weight gain. Conclusions: Pregabalin appears to be an effective antiepileptic drug in adjuntive therapy. It also appears to be well tolerated. Our findings were fairly consistent with the manufacturer's labeling for the medication. (Supported by the Comprehensive Epilepsy Care Center For Children And Adults, P.C.) 1 Antonio Russi, and 1 Thais Tarancon ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Centro Medico Teknon, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ) Rationale: To compare the safety and tolerability of Levetiracetam (LEV) and Pregabalin (PGB) using one of two titration schedules (fast and slow) as add-on treatment in patients with refractory partial epilepsy on polytherapy while receiving 3 concurrent marketed AEDs. Methods: A total of 128 patients with refractory partial epilepsy receiving a stable regimen of two or three AEDs were randomized to LEV fast rate, LEV slow rate, PGB fast rate and PGB slow rata dosage adjustment (32 patients ? 4 groups). LEV fast rate group was given LEV at a starting dosage of 1000 mg b.i.d with weekly increments of 500 mg. LEV slow rate group was given LEV at a starting dosage of 500 mg b.i.d with weekly increments of 250 mg. PGB fast rate group was given PGB at starting dosage of 300 mg b.i.d with weekly increments of 150 mg. PGB slow rate group was given PGB at starting dosage of 150 mg b.i.d with weekly increments of 75 mg. Primary parameters were rate of withdrawals and rate of continuation to 3000 mg b.i.d LEV and 600 mg b.i.d PGB maximum dosage while reducing previous polytherapeutic dosage. Results: The incidence of adverse events was similar among LEV study groups (fast and slow rate dosage). With fast titration 2 out 32 (6.25%) and with slow titration 1 out 32 (3,12%) reported serious adverse events with discontinuation. In LEV groups 18 out 32 (56.25%) with fast titration and 20 out 32 (62.50%) with slow titration reached maximum LEV dosage (3000 mg b.i.d). These differences were not significant. Twelve patients reported side effects while taking PGB fast titration (37.5%) and only one (3.12%) with slow titration (p < 0.01). In these PGB groups 6 out 32 (18.75%) with fast titration and 20 out 32 (62.5%) with slow titration reached maximum PGB dosage (600 mg b.i.d) while reducing previous polytherapeutic dosage (p < 0.01). Conclusions: Levetiracetam appears to be well tolerated with fast and slow dosage regimen. Pregabalin should be taken with a starting dose of 150 mg b.i.d with weekly increments of 75 mg dosage adjustment as adjunctive treatment in patients with refractory partial epilepsy on excessive polytherapy. 1 Barbara Schauble, 1 Joern-Roland Wettach, and 2 Andreas Schreiner ( 1 Medical  and 2 Medical  mean age 42 year (±SD 19)) were identified. Median duration of epilepsy was 9 years (range, 0?60 years). 77% had seizures during the 12 weeks retrospective baseline. Most frequent seizure types at baseline were generalized tonic-clonic (52%), complex partial (23%), and simple partial (12%). Main reasons provided for transitioning from VPA to TPM were insufficient efficacy (61%) and/or side effects (81%). Side effects listed as reason for transitioning (≥10%) were weight gain (37%), tremor (29%), fatigue (21%), hair loss (12%) cognitive disorder, hepatic function abnormalities or nausea (10% each). At endpoint, the median TPM dose was 125 mg/day. Mean seizure frequency decreased significantly from 32 (±SD 248) seizures per month during the retrospective baseline to 3 (±SD 16) seizures/month during the maintenance period (p < 0.001). The responder rate (≥ 50% seizure reduction) during the maintenance period was 75%, and 51% patients remained seizure-free during this period. 16% of patients discontinued TPM, 8% due to an adverse event (AE), and 3% due to insufficient efficacy. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE) were reported in 14% of patients. TEAE occurring ≥ 3% were paraesthesia (4%) and weight decrease (5%). 70% of patients were on TPM monotherapy at the end of the observation and 77% continued on TPM therapy. Conclusions: After transition from VPA, topiramate was associated with a substantial reduction in seizure frequency, including a high seizure-free rate, and was well tolerated. (Supported by Janssen-Cilag Germany.) 1 Mike R. Schoenberg, 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Kimford J. Meador, 2 David W. Loring, 3 Victoria J. Vahle, 4 Patty G. Ray, 5 James A. Fessler, 1 Paula Ogrocki, and 6 Mitchell J. Miller ( 1 Neurology, University Hospitals of Cleveland and Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 3 Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO ; 4 Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 5 Neurology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY ; and 6 Neurology Clinical Development, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Previously, we reported that drug preference was unrelated to objective neuropsychological performance. This study examined if self-report rating scales of mood could predict participants' subjective drug preference in a study of healthy volunteers taking lamotrigine (LTG) or topiramate (TPM). Methods: This was a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, two-period crossover study in healthy adults. A total of 37 (mean age = 38 years) completed preference data. There was no difference in age or IQ between groups (p > .05). Subjects were randomized to receive either LTG or TPM for 12 weeks (7 weeks of dose escalation followed by 4 weeks of maintenance therapy, and then a 1 week taper). Maintenance dose was 300 mg/day for both AEDs. Subjects then received the alternate therapy with the same dosing format. Evaluations were conducted at Screening, end of the First and Second Maintenance Phases, and the Post-treatment Phase. Side effects were recorded at each evaluation. Measures included mood assessment (QOLIE-89, SEALS, and POMS), and cognitive tests of attention, memory, language, and executive functioning. Drug preference was assessed at the end of the study. Significantly more participants (26/37, 70%) preferred LTG (LTG-P). Six (16%) preferred TPM (TPM-P) and 5 (14%) had no preference (No-P). Logistic regression was completed with baseline self-report mood and objective cognitive measures to predict subjective drug preference of LTG versus TPM. Results: An algorithm with QOLIE Attention/Concentration and the SEALS Tiredness, and Dysphoria scales significnatly differed from zero, ?2(3, N = 37) = 15.05, p < .01. Participants were more likely to prefer LTG when baseline attention complaints were less, while those with more complaints of dysphoria and tiredness on the SEALS were 2.5 times more likely to prefer TPM. Using the algorithm, 87% of participants were correctly classified. Conclusions: Fewer attention/concentration problems and less complaints of dysphoria and tiredness was associated with a preference for LTG while the opposite was true in predicting a participants stated preference for TPM. Further studies are needed to more fully delineate factors affecting patient perceptions of medication side effects and how these variables affect attitudes of medication preference and the factors affecting compliance and quality of life. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Andreas Schreiner, 2 Joern-Roland Wettach, and 2 Schauble Barbara ( 1 Medical  and 2 Medical  mean age 47,1 yrs (SD ± 17,9)) were selected. Median duration of epilepsy was 9,5 years (range, 0?59 years). 84,3% had seizures during the 12 weeks retrospective baseline. Most frequent seizure types at baseline were generalized tonic-clonic (52%), complex partial (26%), and simple partial (16%). Main reasons provided for transitioning from CBZ/OXC onto topiramate were insufficient efficacy (75%) and/or side effects (80%). Side effects listed as reason for transitioning (>10%) were fatigue (55%), dizziness (29%), headache (20%), weight increase (19%) or abnormal hepatic function (13%). At endpoint, the median TPM dose was 100 mg/day. Mean seizure frequency decreased from 6/month (±SD 20,8) at baseline to 1,4 (±SD 5,1)/month during the full observation period. The responder rate (≥ 50% seizure reduction) during the last 3 months of observation was 91%, and 62% of patients remained seizure-free during this period. 19% of patients discontinued TPM, in 12% due to an adverse event (AE), and 3% due to insufficient efficacy. The only treatment-emergent adverse events reported in > 5% were paraesthesia (9%) and weight decrease (8%). Conclusions: After transition from CBZ or OXC, topiramate was associated with a substantial reduction in seizure frequency, including a high seizure-free rate, and was well tolerated. (Supported by Janssen-Cilag Germany.) 1 John M. Seeley, 1 Amir Arain, 1 Martin Gallagher, and 1 Bassel Abou-Khalil ( 1 Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: More than 30% of patients with partial epilepsy are resistant to standard antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Those who are not candidates for epilepsy surgery would benefit from add-on trials of newer AEDs. Pregabalin (PGB) is a new AED with 40?50% responder rate and only 15% drop out rate in add-on clinical trials. Efficacy and tolerability in clinical practice after marketing can be different. We analyzed efficacy and tolerability of add-on PGB in all patients started on PGB between September 2005 and February 2006. Methods: The patient records were retrospectively reviewed for all patients who were started on PGB between September 2005 and February 2006 in Dr. Bassel Abou-Khalil's epilepsy clinic. The records were analyzed to investigate PGB's efficacy, safety, and tolerability in relation to patient demographics, seizure, and epilepsy characteristics, starting dose, titration rate, target dose, and concomitant treatment. In addition, other factors such as age, response to previous treatment, duration of treatment, and adverse experiences were recorded. Outcome was measured in one of the following five categories; seizure free, marked improvement (>90% reduction in seizure frequency), moderate improvement (50?90% reduction in seizure frequency), no significant change (less than 50% reduction in seizure frequency), or worsened seizure frequency. Results: There were 55 patients who were started on PGB between September 2005 and February 2006. The age ranged from 17 to 70 with an average age of 40. 70% of the patients were still taking PGB at the time of last follow up with an average duration of treatment of 25 weeks. 30% of the patients started on PGB were no longer taking it. 25% of the patients who discontinued the medication, did so for ineffectiveness only while the other 75% stopped the medication for either ineffectiveness and adverse effects or adverse effects alone. The average length of treatment for those who discontinued PGB was 11 weeks. The most common adverse effect causing discontinuation was drowsiness (42%), emotional lability and irritability (33%). 52% of the patients complained of an adverse effect. The most common adverse effect overall for the patients was drowsiness (20%) and weight gain (13%). The average number of AEDs when starting PGB was 2.1. The patients had failed an average of 7 AEDs in the past. Seven of the patients had not had follow up as of yet. Of the remaining 48 patients, the responder rate was 49% with 8% of those becoming seizure free. Conclusions: In patients with refractory partial seizures, adjunctive therapy with PGB is effective and well tolerated. The most common adverse effects were drowsiness and weight gain. The most common adverse effect causing discontinuation of therapy was drowsiness and irritability and this was not related to starting dose or titration rate. 1 Renato Segura, 4 Ruthie Nemire, 2 Marinelli Vega, 1,2 Dalia Lorenzo, 3 Barry Gidal, 5 Rory Remmel, and 1,2 R. Eugene Ramsay ( 1 Neurology, Miami VA Medical Center, Miami, FL ; 2 Neurology, University of Miami, Miami, FL ; 3 Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI ; 4 Pharmacy Services, Nova University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL ; and 5 Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Enzyme induction is a process by which either the quanity or activity of a cytochrome (CYP) enzyume is increased above its baseline. CYP induction results from an increase in gene transcription triggered by selected substances and drugs resulting in an increase in drug clearance and lower plasma concentrations. Once an enzyme inducer is started, it generally takes 2?4 weeks to reach the higher drug clearance although the time course of induction has not been well characterized. When an inducing drug is stopped, the effect is lost and drug clearance returns to baseline. This process is known as de-induction and the time course has been assumed to be the same as induction. However, there have been no studies which have looked at the time course and the effect of dose of the inducer on de-induction. The purpose of this project is to determine the time course and the dose at which the induction effect is lost. Methods: The antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) which are potent CYP 3A4/5 and uridine-diphosphate glucuronyl transferase (UGT) inducers include carbamazepine and phenytoin. LTG is a substrate for primarily for UGT. Patients selected for the study were on stable doses of one of the enzyme inducing AEDs (CBZ or PHT) and were also taking LTG. Patients were included who were to have the inducer discontinued and maintained on LTG monotherapy. Two trough plasma levels for the inducer and LTG were drawn before any changes in dose were made. Unit dose reduction was done biweekly (PHT 100 mg, CBZ 200 mg) and plasma samples were obtained biweekly during the taper. Plasma samples were collected three times a week for three weeks after the inducer was stopped and then weekly for three more weeks. Plasma concentrations were assayed using HPLC. Results: Samples from 17 adult patients have been obtained. Mean LTG clearance (Cl) before dosage reduction of the EI-AEDs was 131 L. A linear reduction in LTG Cl was seen reaching 84.6 L the day the EI-AED was stopped. Further reduction in Cl occurred over the next three weeks reaching a mean of 48 L and plateaued at this level for the remainder of the study. Cl and change in Cl was similar across patients with the standard deviation ranging from 7.2 to 18.5 across the sampling times. Conclusions: 1. Approximately half of the de-induction occurs during the tapering of an EI-AEDs. The remaining induction effect is lost over the 3 weeks after the EI-AED is discontinued. Thus even a low dose of an EI-AED has a significant effect on the activity level of the glucuronidation pathway. The overall induction effect is a 2.5 fold increase in LTG clearance by EI-AEDs. 1 Archana Shrestha, 1 Lauren Frey, 1 Edward Maa, 1 Laura Strom, and 1 Mark Spitz ( 1 Neurology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Aurora, CO ) Rationale: Side effects are one of the leading limiting factors in the use of anticonvulsant medications. A rash is a known side effect of lamotrigine. However, there is not much information available regarding the relationship between lamotrigine and late onset rash. Is the rash likely to be due to lamotrigine and does it necessitate discontinuation of the medication especially if the medication is effective? Methods: This is a prospective and retrospective case series study evaluating the patients in the Epilepsy Clinic. Pertinent clinical information was collected through a chart review. Patients with onset of rash and on lamotrigine therapy were identified. Late onset rash was defined as rash occurring greater than six months after the initiation of lamotrigine therapy. Patients were evaluated by a Dermatologist or a Primary Care Physician to determine the cause of the rash. Results: There were seven patients identified. The time to onset of rash from initiation of lamotrigine therapy ranged from 9 to 71 months (mean 28.6 months, median 18 months). Four out of the seven patients were on lamotrigine monotherapy with the rest being on polytherapy in combination with different anticonvulsant medications with none however including valproic acid. Two had a diffuse rash with the rest being localized. In three of the patients including the two with the diffuse rash lamotrigine was stopped without resolution of the rash. With the discontinuation of lamotrigine, the majority of these patients experienced an increase in their seizure frequency requiring the reinitiation of lamotrigine therapy once it was determined that the rash was due to another cause. In all the patients that the lamotrigine was continued there was no worsening of the rash or any other medical complications. In all of the cases the cause of the rash was determined to be something other than a lamotrigine induced rash with the most common causes being eczema and cosmetic reaction. Conclusions: Late onset rash in patients taking lamotrigine is not an uncommon occurrence. However, in our case series none of the rashes were determined to be due to lamotrigine. If the rash is severe it is prudent to stop the lamotrigine, but patients should be evaluated to accurately determine the cause of the rash especially if the medication is effective in controlling their seizures. Furthermore, if the rash is limited and the patients are doing well on this medication consideration should be given to continuing the lamotrigine during the evaluation process. 1 Misty D. Smith-Yockman, 1 Erin M. Grussendorf, 3 Manoj K. Patel, 2 Indrani Choudhury-Mukherjee, 2 Milton L. Brown, and 1 H. Steve White ( 1 Anticonvulsant Drug Development (ADD) Program, Department of Pharmacology  2 Department of Neuroscience, Georgetown University, Washington, DC ; and 3 Department of Anesthesiology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: T-type calcium channels contribute to neuronal excitability (Chemin et al., J. Physiol. 540: 1, 2002), the regulation of oscillatory firing of thalamic neurons (Perez-Reyes, Physiol. Rev. 83: 1, 2003), and generation of absence seizures (Huguenard, Epil. Curr. 2: 2, 2002). In addition, T-type channel blockers, such as ethosuximide, display antinociceptive effects (Barton et al., Eur. J. Pharmacol. 521: 1?3, 2005). These channels may serve as unique targets for the treatment of epilepsy or neuropathic pain. In the present investigation, the novel T-type calcium channel blocker, ICM-1?40N (3, 3, 3-trifluoro-2-hydroxy-2-phenyl-propionamide; Choudhury-Mukherjee et al., J. Med. Chem. 46: 12, 2003) was evaluated for its ability to block therapy-resistant psychomotor seizures in the 6 Hz model and to limit formalin-induced inflammatory pain in the formalin test. At 32 and 44 mA, the 6 Hz model displays resistance to phenytoin, carbamazepine, lamotrigine, and topiramate and thus can be used to differentiate novel AEDs (Barton et al., Epil. Res. 47: 3, 2001). Methods: Varying doses of ICM-1?40N were administered i.p. to male CF-1 mice. At the time of test (30 min), mice were evaluated for rotorod (6 rpm) toxicity before corneal stimulation (6 Hz, 3 s duration, 32 or 44 mA). Mice not displaying minimal clonic seizures and stereotyped automatistic behaviors were considered protected. Antinociceptive effects were evaluated in the formalin test. Formalin (0.5%) or 0.5% methylcellulose was injected s.c. under the plantar surface of the right hind paw and the time spent licking was compared between experimental and control groups. The total area under the curve (AUC) and percent of control AUC were calculated. Significance was defined as p < 0.05 when compared by one-way ANOVA. Results: ICM-1?40N was effective at both 32 and 44 mA [ED50's and (95% CI's): 18.5 (8.4 ? 27.8) mg/kg and 45.1 (37.6 ? 54.7) mg/kg, respectively]. Based on an observed TD50 of 59.4 (40 ? 136) mg/kg, the protective index was 3.2 and 1.3 for 32 and 44 mA, respectively. At 70 mg/kg, ICM-1?40N displayed significant activity against the acute (46.1 ± 17.2% control) and inflammatory (43.8 ± 10.2% control) phases of formalin-induced pain. Conclusions: The results obtained in the present study demonstrate that the T-type calcium channel blocker ICM-1?40N possesses anticonvulsant activity in a model of pharmacoresistant epilepsy and antinociceptive activity in a mouse model of tonic pain. These findings support the further development of this novel therapeutic. (Supported by NO1-NS-4?2359 (MDSY  RO1 CA105435?01 (MLB  and 2 Regional Epilepsy Center, St. Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To examine our experience with the use of pregabalin as part of the treatment of seizures in adult patients with refractory epilepsy. Methods: Since pregabalin (PGB) became available in 2005, all patients prescribed PGB as part of their anti-epileptic drug (AED) regimen by one epileptologist at our center were included in data collection. Patients received standard care at our center, including education, therapy rationale/expectations, instructions, side effects, and follow-up care. PGB and concurrent AED dose titration and adjustments were individualized based on side effects and seizure frequency. As patients were prescribed PGB, data including seizure type and frequency, current and past exposure to AED's, and PGB dosing were recorded. The charts of all patients prescribed PGB therapy were retrospectively reviewed in Feb 2006 and in May 2006 by our center's clinical pharmacist for PGB efficacy, side effects, and reason for discontinuation if applicable. Results: Since Sep 2005, 42 patients have been prescribed PGB as part of their AED regimen. By May 2006, 24/42 (57%) remained on PGB and was discontinued in 18/42 (43%). All patients were prescribed PGB for seizures; 38/42 (90%) for localization-related and 4/42 (10%) for generalized seizures. At the time PGB was added, 12/42 (29%) were taking > /= 1 AED ± Vagus Nerve Stimulator (VNS) therapy and 30/42 (71%) were taking > /= 2 AED's ± VNS. Previous AED therapy included 4/42 (10%) on < /= 1 AED, 8/42 (19%) on 2?4 AED's, 28/42 (66%) on 5?10 AED's, and 2/42 (5%) on > 10 AED's. The 24 patients continuing PGB as part of their AED regimen as of May 2006 had been taking PGB for a range of 3?8 months. Reported side effects include weight gain in 4/24 (17%), ataxia in 2/24 (8%), and no side effects in 18/24 (75%). Seizure frequency decreased in 6/24 (25%), increased in 4/24 (17%), and did not change in 14/24 (58%). The 18 patients that discontinued PGB by May 2006 had been taking PGB for a range of 3 days-6 months. Side effects requiring PGB discontinuation include seizure increase in 7/18 (38%); fatigue in 5/18 (27%); ataxia in 2/18 (11%); and headache, weight gain, behavior change, and unfocused thoughts in 1/18 (6%) of each. Overall, seizure frequency decreased in 1/18 (6%), increased in 9/18 (50%), and did not change in 8/18 (44%). Conclusions: These results characterize our center's experience with PGB from Sep 2005-May 2006. Overall, our center has experienced limited success using PGB as part of the AED regimen to treat seizures in adult patients with refractory epilepsy. In these patients, a regimen containing PGB may be considered, but patients must be monitored for side effects and effect on seizure frequency. In our experience, PGB has been discontinued in a substantial number of patients for reasons including intolerable side effects and lack of efficacy. 1 K. Spiegel, 2 F. Baldinetti, 2 S. Huang, and 2 B. Emir ( 1 CNS, Pfizer Global R and 2 CNS, Pfizer Global Pharmaceuticals, New York, NY ) Rationale: Pregabalin is approved in the US, EU, and elsewhere as adjunct therapy?at dosages of 150 to 600 mg/d1?4?for adult patients with partial-onset seizures. We evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of pregabalin 300 mg/d as treatment of partial seizures by combining data from the 2 randomized clinical trials (RCTs) of pregabalin for this indication that included 300- mg/d fixed-dosage arms. Methods: The 2 RCTs shared a similar parallel-group design, with add-on treatment administered over 11 weeks. A total of 242 patients received pregabalin 300 mg/d, and 240 received placebo (PBO). All participating patients were ≥12 years of age and refractory to treatment, ie, they had a history of failing two or more AEDs, and their seizures were inadequately controlled despite receiving 1 to 3 marketed AEDs concurrently. The primary efficacy measure was reduction in seizure frequency compared with baseline. Treatment efficacy was also evaluated by measuring the responder rate, ie, patients who experienced seizure reductions ≥50% during treatment versus baseline. Results: The pregabalin 300 mg/d treatment group demonstrated a significant reduction in seizure frequency relative to the PBO group: the treatment difference between pregabalin and placebo in mean seizure reduction was ?34.8 (p < .0001). Overall, 36% of patients receiving 300 mg/d pregabalin were responders compared with 20% of patients receiving PBO (p < .05). Adverse events (AEs) associated with 300 mg/d pregabalin treatment were typically mild to moderate in intensity and tended to resolve with treatment. AEs, such as dizziness (14% of patients receiving 300 mg/d pregabalin and 4.6% of patients receiving PBO), somnolence (7.4% and 5%), and weight gain (3.7% and 0%), were evaluated. Conclusions: Pregabalin 300 mg/d was efficacious and generally well-tolerated as add-on therapy for partial seizures. At this 300 mg/d dosage, 36% of patients were responders (≥50% reduction in seizures) to pregabalin treatment. However, as previously reported (including a responder rate up to 51%1), some patients may require, and tolerate well, increased dosages of up to 600 mg/d. References: 1French JA, et al. Neurology. 2003;60:1631?1637. 2Arroyo S, et al. Epilepsia. 2004;45:20?27. 3Beydoun A, et al. Neurology. 2005;64:475?480. 4Elger CE, et al. Epilepsia. 2005;46:1926?1936. (Supported by Pfizer.) 1 James P. Valeriano, and 1 Carole L. Lane ( 1 Neurology, Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA ) Rationale: Oxcarbazepine has been approved for use as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures in adults and children ages 2 ? 16 with epilepsy. In our practive we used oxcarbazepine in an adult population both as initial monotherapy and as conversion to monotherapy in patients with varying seizure types. We also measured oxcarbazepine levels in the form of the monohydroxy metabolite (MHD) thought to be the pharmacologically active moiety of oxcarbazepine. This was done to assess whether or not these levels were clinically relevant. Methods: We have retrospectively reviewed records of 25 patients in which oxcarbazepine was used as monotherapy. Seizure types treated included: simple and complex partial seizures with or without secondarily generalization and generalized seizures. Results: We were able to maintain monotherapy treatment with oxcarbazepine in almost all patients because of the degree of seizure control as well as tolerability. MHD levels varied at given doses between individuals, so these must be titrated on a case to case basis. There was also a wide range of levels which achieved seizure control. Conclusions: Oxcarbazepine proved effective and well tolerated as monotherapy treatment in adults with various seizure types. (Supported by: Funding in the form of a grant through Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation.) 1 Vicente Villanueva, and 1 Albert Molins ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Neurology Service, Hospital La Fe, Valencia, Valencia, Spain; and Epilepsy Unit, Neurology Service, Hospital Josep Trueta, Girona, Girona, Spain ) Rationale: To describe the characteristics and the outcome of a population of patients treated with levetiracetam in monotherapy through the analysis of the epilepsy patients database of two epilepsy Units. Methods: A retrospective analysis of the epilepsy patients database of two epilepsy Units (Hospital Josep Trueta and Hospital La Fe) was performed. In both centers, an epilepsy patients database is routinely filled during daily clinical practice. All the patients in whom levetiracetam was used in monotherapy up to December 2005, and received at least one dose of the drug in monotherapy were included. Monotherapy was achieved from onset, if levetiracetam was estimated to be the best option or after withdrawal of other concomitant antiepileptic drugs if an optimal seizure control was reached with levetiracetam. It was administered twice per day, with a schedule depending of the age and the renal function. The following data were analysed: demographic characteristics, follow-up, epilepsy type, previous seizure frequency, maintenance dose, efficacy and side effects. Results: Sixty-two patients with a mean age of 53.67 years (range19?94) were included. The patients were followed a mean of 12.4 months (range 4?38). Epilepsy type was mainly partial (83.8%) and symptomatic (54.8%). The mean previous number of seizures was 8.6 and the mean maintenance dose was 1314.51 mg (250?2000). Fifty-eight patients (93%) were considered responders (more than a 50% reduction of seizures) with 70.9% of them free of seizures. Side effects were observed in 20 patients with one death considered not related to drug use. There were 9 (14.5%) withdrawals (5 because of side effects, 1 death and 3 non-responders). Conclusions: Levetiracetam was used in monotherapy in a population relatively old. It proved to be efficient in 93% of the patients. Side effect were severe enough to discontinue levetiracetam in 8% of the patients. 1 Bob Warnock, 1 Gilda P. Womble, and 1 John A. Messenheimer ( 1 Neurosciences Medicine Development Center, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the apparent clearance of lamotrigine (LTG). In addition, the effect of the oral contraceptives on LTG clearance diminished during the ?pill free? week, resulting in a transient approximate two-fold increase in LTG plasma concentrations. Based on these results, data from two large open-label studies were examined to characterize the safety of LTG at higher concentrations beyond that associated with the current recommended maximum of 500 mg/day. Methods: Study US17 and study US26 were open-label treatment protocols.In both trials, adjustment of concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) was permitted, including conversion to monotherapy with LTG and data were obtained every 6 months for the duration of the subject's participation in the study, including a single LTG concentration. Demographics, adverse events (AEs) and exposure were summarized by study and by plasma concentration (<10 mg/mL, > 10 mg/mL), which is the equivalent of 600 mg of lamotrigine as monotherapy. Only subjects with a plasma sample were analyzed for safety. Only AEs that were reported during the period that a patient was exposed to the dose recorded at the time of the PK sample were included in the safety analysis in order to examine the dose-response relationship. Results: A total of 1602 subjects participated in the 2 trials, with 624 included in the safety analysis. Demographic characteristics were similar between studies. There were 492 patients with LTG concentrations < 10 ?g/mL (mean = 5.4 ?g/mL, average exposure 15.4 months) and 132 patients ≥ 10 ?g/mL (mean = 14.7 ?g/mL, average exposure 18.8 months). Adverse events in US 17 and US 26 combined were reported slightly more frequently among the patients with LTG concentrations ≥ 10 ?g/mL (34%) than in those < 10 ?g/mL (26%). AEs reported at a rate ≥ 5% and more frequently among those with concentrations ≥10 ?g/mL are shown below: The term ?Any Rash? (includes rash or urticaria) was slightly more frequent (5/132, 4%) at ≥10 ?g/mL than < 10 ?g/mL (8/492, 2%). There were no cases of serious rash in either group. The rate of serious adverse events was comparable between groups. CNS adverse events were slightly more frequent at concentrations > 10 ?g/ml. Conclusions: At mean concentrations of LTG of 14.7 approximating a LTG monotherapy dose of 900 mg qd non-serious CNS-related adverse events were slightly more frequent in comparison with a mean concentration of LTG of 5.4?g/ml approximating a LTG dose of 600 mg qd. Doses increases of LTG up to 900 mg qd as monotherapy are well-tolerated. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development.) Adverse Event < 10?g/mL (n = 492) ≥10?g/mL (n = 132) Headache 40 (8%) 17 (13%) Dizziness 40 (8%) 16 (12%) Diplopia 25 (5%) 12 (9%)? Ataxia 15 (3%) 10 (8%)? Injury Accident 20 (4%) 9 (7%) Infection 12 (2%) 7 (5%) Tremor ?6 (1%) 7 (5%) 1 Gaetano Zaccara, 1 Fabrizio Balestrieri, and 2 Andrea Messori ( 1 Unit of Neurology, S.M. Nuova Hospital, Firenze, Firenze, Italy ; and 2 Osservatorio del Farmaco, Azienda Ospedaliera Careggi, Firenze, Firenze, Italy ) Rationale: To analyse dose dependent CNS adverse effects (CNS-AE) of new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) trough an evaluation of key double-blind studies. Methods: we selected all placebo-controlled clinical studies with new AEDs. From each study we extracted the number of patients who complained of CNS-AEs when treated with the active drug (divided for different dose levels) or placebo. For each CNS-AE we calculated the percentage of CNS-AE complaining patients (under treatment or placebo) only from those studies in which the frequency of that CNS-AE was reported. Than we calculated the complaint rate of each CNS-AE (percent of CNS-AE patients under active treatment minus the percent of CNS-AE from patients receiving placebo) (Cramer et al., Epilepsia 1999; 40:590?600). Finally, a summary complaint score (SCS) was calculated for different class of CNS-AEs. Results: SCS for 4 class of CNS-AEs: somnolence, tremor, vestibulocerebellar (ataxia, dizziness, diplopia, blurred vision and gait incoordination) and cognitive are reported in the order. Gabapentin: 9.6%, 2.3%, 21%, 0%; Lamotrigine: 0%, 0%, 69%, 0%; Levetiracetam: 7%, 0%, 7%, 0%; Pregabalin: 11.6%, 4%, 41%, 9%; Oxcarbazepine: 14.8%, 4,6%, 76%, 0%; Tiagabine: 0%, 26%, 17%, 5%; Topiramate: 30.3%, 0%, 94%, 67.8%; Zonisamide: 6.3%, 0%, 9%, 0%. From the inspection of data, a relation between dose level and the above reported CNS-AEs was observed in some cases which will be reported. Conclusions: This analysis gives a clear profile of CNS tolerability of various new AEDSs. Overall, levetiracetam had the best profile. (Supported by a grant from the ?Ente Cassa di Risparmio di Firenze,? Florence, Italy.) 1 Gregory L. Krauss, 2 Tracy Glauser, 3 Alexis Arzimanoglou, 4 Carlos A. Perdomo, and 4 Santiago Arroyo ( 1 Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; 2 Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ; 3 University Hospital Robert Debré, Paris, France ; and 4 Eisai Global Clinical Development, Ridgefield Park, NJ ) Rationale: To evaluate the short- and long-term safety of rufinamide in pediatric patients with epilepsy. Methods: Safety data were derived from all of the short-term, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies and long-term, open-label studies of adjunctive rufinamide therapy in pediatric patients with inadequately controlled seizures. Databases from the different trials were integrated into a single database including 212 rufinamide-treated patients and 197 placebo-treated patients for short-term double-blind trials and 391 patients for long-term trials. All patients who received ≥1 dose of study drug were included in the analysis. Adverse events (AEs) were analyzed using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities and were presented by preferred term. Clinical laboratory tests, serious adverse events (SAEs), and AEs leading to study discontinuation were also evaluated. Results: In short-term, double-blind trials, the median age was 11 years and the median weight was 35 kg; median duration of exposure was 3.0 months and median daily dose of rufinamide was 41.96 mg/kg per day. The most commonly reported Aes for rufinamide versus placebo patients included somnolence (17.0% vs 8.1%), vomiting (16.5% vs 7.1%), headache (16.0% vs 8.1%), and pyrexia (11.3% vs 10.7%). Most Aes were mild to moderate in severity. A higher percentage of patients in the rufinamide group (7.1%) compared to the placebo group (2.0%) discontinued treatment due to Aes. Serious adverse events were reported in 7.5% of rufinamide-treated patients and 5.6% of placebo-treated patients. Serious adverse events led to study discontinuation of 3.3% of rufinamide-treated patients and 1.0% of placebo-treated patients. In long-term therapy (n = 391), the median daily dose of rufinamide administered was 41.67 mg/kg per day and the median duration of rufinamide exposure was 14.5 months; 54% of patients were given the drug for ≥12 months. The most commonly reported AEs during long-term therapy were vomiting (26.3%), headache (22.3%), pyrexia (18.7%), somnolence (18.7%), and upper respiratory tract infection (17.9%); 86 patients (22.0%) experienced ≥1 severe AE. Adverse events led to the study discontinuation of 12.5% of patients; no single AE led to study discontinuation of > 2.0% of patients. Serious adverse events were reported in 15.6% of patients; 4.9% of patients discontinued treatment due to SAEs. Conclusions: Short- and long-term rufinamide therapy were generally well tolerated in pediatric patients with epilepsy. 1 Daniel Becker, 1 Anup Patel, 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil, and 1 Jesus E. Pina-Garza ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis (SSPE) is a devastating progressive degenerative disease of the nervous system presumably caused by a persistent measles virus. Patients commonly present with myoclonia or encephalopathy. There are currently no known curative therapeutic options or effective symptomatic therapy. We present a patient whose encephalopathy and myoclonus responded dramatically to levetiracetam. Methods: A 12 year old boy presented with acute encephalopathy and myoclonus developing over one month. Electroencephalogram (EEG) showed high voltage generalized periodic discharges associated with myoclonic jerks, recurring at intervals of 6?7 seconds. The suspected diagnosis of SSPE was confirmed with very elevated CSF measles antibodies. Results: Treatment with levetiracetam dramatically improved both the myoclonus and encephalopathy within a few days. The EEG pattern showed improvement as well. Conclusions: Levetiracetam was effective in treating both myoclonus and encephalopathy in one patient with SSPE. We speculate that the electrical abnormality demonstrated in the characteristic EEG pattern contributes significantly to the encephalopathy seen in SSPE patients. Levetiracetam appears to improve the abnormal cortical electrical activity and is a promising symptomatic therapy in SSPE. 1 Michaela V. Bonfert, 1 Sybille Armbruster, 1 Bastian Baumgartner, and 1 Florian Heinen ( 1 Department of Pediatric Neurology and Developmental Medicine, Childrens Hospital of the University of Munich, Munich, Germany ) Rationale: To conduct a prospective, open-label pilot trial to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of Levetiracetam (LEV) monotherapy in a cohort of 10 children with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS) in paying special attention to effects on cognitive function. Methods: Newly diagnosed patients with BECTS and patients with BECTS nonresponding to first-line monotherapy with Sulthiame (STM) were recruited from our clinics outpatients department. Inclusion criteria were proven diagnosis of BECTS, two ore more seizures in the last six months, age between 3 to 12 years and informed consent by parents. Patients with progressive neurological or systemic disease, other forms of epilepsy and moot compliance of caregivers were excluded from the trial. LEV was titrated up to 20 mg/kg. Efficacy was assessed by analysing changes in seizure frequency and alteration of electroencephalogram (EEG) abnormalities over a 6 months period. Therefore recordings of EEG during wakefulness and sleep were conducted before start of LEV treatment, after 1, 3 and 6 months. Neuropsychological testing of patients took place before start of LEV treatment and is to be repeated after 6 months of treatment. Tolerability was assessed by evaluation of LEV-associated adverse events (AE). Approval by the local ethics committee was obtained. Results: To date 10 patients have been recruited, aged 3 to 12 years. 6/10 patients received LEV as first-line monotherapy. 4/10 patients were switched to LEV monotherapy from first-line monotherapy with STM due to inefficacy (3/4) and hyperventilation (1/4) respectively. At this time all of the LEV treated patients are seizure-free (8/10 have completed the 6 months period, 2/10 patients are still ongoing). EEG abnormalities showed remarkable reduction in all of the patients. Neuropsychological assessment in 9/10 patients before start of treatment revealed average performance in 7/9 and below average performance in 2/9 patients. In those 8 patients who have by now reached the endpoint of the trial no changes in neuopsychological parameters were seen. AEs were reported in 2/10 patients. 1 patient complaint of agitation within the first week of the LEV treatment, 1 patient developed hyporexia associated to mild weight loss within day 60 to 120 of treatment which resolved spontaneously. Conclusions: These preliminary data show that LEV seems to be an effective and well-tolerated option in the treatment of children with BECTS. Concerning effects on cognitive function preliminary data are promising. Based on these encouraging results a controlled, randomized, double-blind multicentre trial to evaluate the application of LEV in a representative cohort of 120 children with BECTS has started in Germany spring 2006 (HEAD-Study). (Supported by UCB Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Patricia L. Bruno, 1 David A. Lyczkowski, 1 Allison E. Sedgewick, and 1 Elizabeth A. Thiele ( 1 Pediatric Epilepsy Program, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Felbamate (FBM) was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration in July 1993. From January to October 1994, 33 cases of aplastic anemia and 18 cases of hepatic failure were reported among users of FBM. Despite the risk of idiosyncratic adverse events, FBM appeared to be an effective antiepileptic agent in initial studies. There are limited post-marketing data available regarding the efficacy, safety and tolerability of FBM in pediatric epilepsy. Methods: We conducted a chart review of patients followed from January 2002 through May 2006 in the Pediatric Epilepsy Program at Massachusetts General Hospital. For each patient treated with FBM, we assessed demographics, seizure type and etiology, current and previous treatments, reported side effects of FBM, complete blood count (CBC) and liver function test (LFT) values, and efficacy of FBM treatment based on parental reports of percent seizure reduction. ?2 and paired-sample T-tests were performed with SPSS v. 11.5. Results: Forty-three (male/female 26/17) had been treated with FBM. Of the 43, 16 had partial onset seizures, nine had generalized seizures, and 18 had mixed seizure disorders. For 26 of the 43 patients, detailed data were available and this population was further evaluated. All of the 26 patients were treated with FBM in combination with other antiepileptic drugs or adjunctive therapy options. Of the 26 patients, 11 patients experienced 50 to 90% reduction in seizures, and four experienced a greater than 90% seizure reduction. Seven patients experienced less than 50% reduction, and four had no change in their seizure frequency. CBC and LFT values at 2 weeks, 1 month, and 3 months showed no significant alterations from baseline (n = 14 at 2 weeks, n = 16 at 1 month, and n = 22 at 3 months) with the exception of the WBC count, which decreased from baseline (7.33 ± 3.27 k/?L) to 1 month (6.22 ± 2.54 k/?L; 2-tailed P = 0.009). Since this change in WBC was not accompanied by any other significant trends, and since WBC values at 2 weeks and at 3 months were not significantly altered from baseline, the etiology of the WBC decrease is unclear. Two patients reported nausea and vomiting while on FBM. One patient died at 29 months of age while on FBM from respiratory and renal failure. Autopsy results suggested the patient died from a multisystemic disorder, not from an idiosyncratic reaction to FBM. Conclusions: Felbamate has been shown to be effective in the treatment of partial-onset seizures and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. In our limited retrospective study, FBM appears to be well tolerated and efficacious in the treatment of refractory pediatric epilepsy. Although there were not significant side effects in our population, pediatric patients started on FBM should be closely monitored. Additional studies are needed to better define the role of FBM in pediatric epilepsy, both with regard to efficacy as well as tolerability. 1 Michael G. Chez, and 1 Pavan Khanna ( 1 Neurology, Rosalind Franklin University/the Chicago Medical School, North Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Felbamate is a recent anti-convulsant medication that has been relegated to second-line therapy due to fear of side effects such as bone marrow or liver failure. These side effects are rare, uncommon, and almost unheard of in children under 13 years of age. Despite this fact, many children who could benefit from this medication have not been given a trial because of the fear of dangerous side effects. We conducted a retrospective review to analyze how effective felbamate was in a refractive epileptic population, and noted whether there were any abnormal blood or liver tests during treatment. Methods: A retrospective chart review of seizure patients treated with felbamate from 1994?2006 was performed. The average duration of therapy, prior failed treatments, laboratory values, and seizure type were reviewed. Average felbamate dose per day was calculated and average therapeutic serum levels were recorded. Patients were evaluated for seizure improvement as becoming seizure free, improvement of greater than 50%, improvement of less than 50%, and worsening of seizures. Reasons for stopping therapy were also recorded along with any perceived side effects. Results: There were 28 patients (18 male, 10 female); average age 7.54 years (range 1.33?17.25 years). Average prior failed treatments was 3.6 drugs (range 1?6) or therapies (3 ACTH or 3 prednisone;6 ketogenic diet; 1 vagal nerve stimulator). The average duration of therapy was 23.6 months (range 2?93 months). Average maximum daily dosage was 1157 mg/day, which was 50.1 mg/kg/day (avg. weight 23.1Kg). The average trough serum level for our population was 55 mg/dl (range 9?140 mg/dl). Seizure types seen in patients were: myoclonic/drop seizures 12; atypical absence seizures 2, Landau-Kleffner 1; secondary generalized or mixed seizures 13. There were 7 patients that met criteria for Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome. Outcome for seizure control showed seizure freedom for 5 patients; greater than 50% improvement in 14; less than 50% improvement in 3; and worsened seizures in drop attacks or startles in 4. One patient stopped the medication despite better seizure control because of irritability. Before 1997, four patients stopped treatment from fear of side effects despite good seizure control. Two patients stopped for anorexia, but none stopped for insomnia which was treated by moving doses earlier in the day or lowering the dosage. There were no significant changes in weight, hematology, or liver profiles in any patient during treatment. Conclusions: This retrospective review of felbamate add-on therapy shows 22/28 pediatric patients with refractive seizures having improved seizure frequency. Only 4/28 patients worsened. The main reason for stopping therapy was the fear of side effects more than actual clinical side effects. This suggests that for intractable seizure patients, especially with mixed or myoclonic seizure types, felbamate should be a rational treatment choice despite known risks of toxicity. 1 Curtis S. Claassen, 1,2 Lorie D. Hamiwka, 1 Marlene A. Blackman, and 1,2 Elaine C. Wirrell ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: To determine the effectiveness and tolerability of home use of buccal lorazepam for break-through seizures in children. Methods: Children prescribed lorazepam by the Neurology Service at the Alberta Children's Hospital in 2005 were identified retrospectively. Charts were reviewed to determine seizure type(s), frequency, syndrome, prior and current AED use, prior status epilepticus, age at onset, gender, cognitive status and age at prescription of lorazepam. Families were contacted in May 2006 and queried regarding number of lorazepam doses used, effectiveness and adverse effects. Results: Twenty one patients were identified (8M, 13F, mean age 7.1 yrs, range 0.5?15.9) who were prescribed lorazepam. Fourteen (67%) had a history of status epilepticus. Nineteen (90%) had symptomatic partial epilepsy, while 1 patient each had idiopathic generalized epilepsy and febrile status epilepticus. Thirteen patients (62%) received a test dose and the remainder had previous exposure to a therapeutic dose of benzodiazepine either in the ER or given by EMS. At follow-up, 11 (52%) had used lorazepam (median # doses 2, 25th-75th%ile 1?9). Therapeutic effectiveness was 100% in 5 (45%), 80% in 2 (18%), 50% in 2 (18%) and 0% in 2 (18%). Of the 9 patients reporting some success with lorazepam, median time to seizure cessation was 4 minutes (25th-75th%ile 2?9 mins). No child experienced a significant adverse effect. Five had transient, minor irritability and 3 had mild sedation. No child had respiratory problems related to lorazepam, although one child with profound ictal apnea failed to respond to lorazepam and continued to be apneic. Patient age, seizure syndrome, cognitive status or number of prior AEDs were not predictive of response. However, children on prophylactic benzodiazepines tended to have a lower response rate than those not taking these agents (1/3 vs 6/8, p = 0.28). Conclusions: Buccal lorazepam appears to be a safe, efficacious and cost-effective therapy for home-use in children with break-through seizures. Children on prophylactic benzodiazepines may have a lower response rate, however larger subject numbers are needed to confirm this finding. 1 Joan A. Conry, 2 Juliann Paolicchi, 3 Julie C. Stolle, 3 Ashira Johnson, and 3 Stephen D. Collins ( 1 Department of Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ; 2 Columbus Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH ; and 3 Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Deerfield, IL ) Rationale: Clobazam (CLB) has been approved for the treatment of anxiety and/or the adjunctive treatment of epilepsy in over 100 other countries. Anticonvulsant effects of CLB was first reported on by Gastaut in 1978. CLB is the only 1,5 benzodiazepine used in the treatment of epilepsy and was developed to decrease the side effects of 1,4-benzodiazepines while maintaining efficacy. This study evaluates the safety and efficacy of CLB as adjunctive therapy in subjects with Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome (LGS). Methods: Subjects from 2?30 years of age with LGS were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, dose-range finding study. The study consists of a 4-week baseline, a 3-week titration and a 4-week maintenance period. Subjects not continuing into the long term open-label study have up to a 3-week taper period. Subjects must be on stable doses of 1?3 AEDs which may include ketogenic diet and VNS. Subjects with ≤2 drop seizures per week are randomized to low dose (target 0.25 mg/kg/day) or high dose (target 1.0 mg/kg/day) with maximum doses of 10 or 40 mg/day, respectively. The primary efficacy variable is a reduction in drop seizures. Safety of CLB is evaluated by lab assessments, electrocardiogram, vital signs, physical and neurological exams and adverse event (AE) assessments. Results: Of the 76 subjects enrolled to date, 49 (64%) have been randomized and have received study drug. Of the randomized subjects, demographic data is available in 51%: 72% male, 28% female; 28% < 5 years of age, 48% 5?10 years of age and 24% > 10 year of age. AEs resulted in 5 premature discontinuations due to drowsiness, hypothermia, increase in seizures, increased behavioral problems and chorea. AEs were reported by 32% of the subjects with the majority mild in severity (66%); 24% were considered not related, 21% unlikely, 24% possibly and 28% probably related to study drug by the investigator; relationship for 1 event was not reported (ear infection). No AEs were considered definitely related. The most frequently reported AEs by ≤2 subjects were constipation (2), ear infection (2), sedation (2), somnolence (2) and increased seizures (3). There were no reports of drooling. One subject reported irritability and 1 reported dysphoria, both mild in severity and considered possibly related. A total of 6 serious adverse events (SAEs) have been reported. Of the SAEs, 4 were treatment-emergent; 3 (constipation, viral infection and sleep apnea syndrome) were considered not related and 1 (respiratory distress) was considered unlikely related. Conclusions: Of the 49 subjects randomized to date, no SAEs have been attributed to clobazam. Clobazam is a promising agent for the treatment of LGS. (Supported by Ovation Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Angus A. Wilfong, 1 Deanna T. Duggan, and 1 Tina J. Bradshaw ( 1 Pediatrics ? Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Pregabalin is a newly available antiepileptic drug (AED) that has been licensed in the U.S. as add-on therapy in adult patients with partial onset seizures. Studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of pregabalin in individuals less than 18 years of age are limited. This chart review explores the safety, tolerability and efficacy of pregabalin in pediatric patients with intractable epilepsy. Pregabalin is a α2-δ ligand that has anxiolytic, analgesic and anticonvulsant properties. Methods: This retrospective chart review study includes pediatric patients with intractable epilepsy treated with pregabalin. Safey and tolerability were assessed via patient and/or caregiver report of adverse events. Pregabalin's efficacy was evaluated via subjective patient and/or caregiver reports. In most cases, efficacy, safety and tolerability were assessed within 8 weeks after the initation of pregabalin therapy. Results: Seventeen patients are included in the cohort. The patients range in age from 3 to 19 years, including 8 females and 9 males. Thirteen of 17 patients are diagnosed with localization related epilepsy; 3 of 17 patients are diagnosed with generalized epilepsy and 1 patient is diagnosed with mixed generalized and localization related epilepsy. Doses were initiated between 0.4 to 4 mg/kg/day and titrated up to maintenance doses ranging from 1.4 mg/kg/day to 8.7 mg/kg/day. Patients were treated with pregabalin for a period of 7 days to over 8 months. Three patients reported a side effect of somnolence. Other reported side effects include visual disturbance such as, ?unable to focus,? moodiness and worsening balance. Of note, one adolescent patient intentionally overdosed on pregabalin and was hospitalized in an intensive care unit for 2 days. Pregabalin was discontinued in 3 patients due to an increase in seizure frequency. Conclusions: Seven out of 17 patients treated with pregabalin reported increased seizure frequency and/or intensity, and 1 out of 17 patients reported no improvement. However, one patient's caregiver reported an improvement in seizure control since starting pregabalin therapy. All 17 patients in the cohort received treatment from one or more AEDs. Four of the 7 patients with reported increased seizure frequency and/or intensity have localization related epilepsy, whereas 2 of the 7 patients have generalized epilepsy. Reports of increased seizure frequency and/or intensity appears unrelated to daily dose per kilogram. Further studies are necessary to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of pregabalin therapy in pediatric patients with intractable epilepsy. 1 Roy D. Elterman, 2 W. Donald Shields, and 3 Stephen Collins ( 1 Clinical Professor of Neurology, UT Southwestern Medical School, Dallas, TX ; 2 David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; and 3 Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Deerfield, IL ) Rationale: The Vigabatrin Infantile Spasms Study Group previously demonstrated that vigabatrin produces seizure cessation in patients with infantile spasms, particularly those with spasms secondary to tuberous sclerosis (Neurology 2001;57:1416?1421). This a priori analysis evaluates the efficacy of vigabatrin by etiology of infantile spasms. Methods: A multicenter, randomized, single-blind study of 14 days with a 3-year, open-label, flexible dosing follow-up in patients with new-onset infantile spasms. Patients ≤2 years of age and who were naïve to treatment with either adrenocorticotropic hormone, prednisone, or valproate were randomized to receive either high-dose (100?148 mg/kg/day) or low-dose (18?36 mg/kg/day) vigabatrin for 14 days. Doses were administered orally (tablets) on a BID regimen. Subgroup analysis of efficacy data was conducted by etiology. Specifically, outcomes of patients by etiology who were spasm free for 7 consecutive days and remained spasm free for the duration of the study based on caregiver assessment were evaluated. Results: Evaluable patients by etiology included 38 tuberous sclerosis (17.2%), 57 cryptogenic (25.8%), and 126 symptomatic-other (57.0%). Response increased dramatically for all etiologies after approximately 2 weeks of vigabatrin therapy and continued to increase with treatment. Of interest were response rates for spasm cessation for 7 consecutive days and remaining spasm free during of the study period (up to 3 years): 73.7% for tuberous sclerosis, 71.9% for cryptogenic, and 49.6% for symptomatic-other. The median time to spasm free status (and remaining spasm free during study period) by etiology was 3 weeks for tuberous sclerosis, 9 weeks for cryptogenic, and 14 weeks for symptomatic-other. Approximate percentage of subjects who became spasm free and remained spasm free by 12 weeks was 32%, 58% and 72%, respectively. The safety profile of vigabatrin by etiology disclosed no differences between groups. Conclusions: Vigabatrin was effective in rapidly producing freedom of spasms for symptomatic, cryptogenic and tuberous sclerosis-induced infantile spasms. The median onset of spasm freedom for all patients in the study ranged from 3 to 14 weeks, and occurred as early as 3 weeks for patients with tuberous sclerosis. While a significant separation of effect between the etiology categories was seen, with tuberous sclerosis responding slightly faster, all groups exhibited a high and sustained response rate to vigabatrin treatment. Previous studies have suggested efficacy of vigabatrin in tuberous sclerosis-induced infantile spasms. This large study also suggests efficacy in cryptogenic and symptomatic-other infantile spasms. These data suggest that vigabatrin may be considered as a first-line treatment for all etiologies of infantile spasms. (Supported by Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) 1 Eija Gaily, 1 Henna Jonsson, and 2 Marjatta Lappi ( 1 Hospital for Children and Adolescents, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland ; and 2 Department of Ophtalmology, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland ) Rationale: Vigabatrin has been shown to cause visual field constriction in 40% of treated adults. The risk is less well known in children. There are no previous reports on visual fields in children who received vigabatrin in infancy. Methods: Vigabatrin has been used as the first drug for infantile spasms in our unit since 1994. We have aimed to investigate visual fields in all VGB-treated children whose age and developmental level allow sufficient cooperation. Eleven such children born in 1993?1999 were available for study. All had infantile spasms during the first year of life, nine with idiopathic and two with symptomatic etiology. Spasms started at a median age of 5.2 (range, 2.9?11.9) months, and lasted for a median of 22 (range, 1?88) days. Ten children have remained seizure-free and one relapsed with focal seizures. Neuropsychological testing at age 5?6 years showed normal cognitive performance in eight children and mild cognitive dysfunction in three. Visual fields were tested by experienced nurses, using the kinetic Goldman perimeter with standard objects V/4e and I/3e in ten children, and IV and 4 in one. Normal result was defined as the fields extending ≥70 degrees in the temporal meridian. Results: Vigabatrin was started at median age 5.5 (range 3.2?12.5) months and lasted for a median of 23.7 (12.6?29.8) months. The median cumulative dose was 733 (range, 284?995) g. Vigabatrin was the only treatment in six children while five also received ACTH. The results of the first Goldman perimetry performed at a median age of 7.2 (range, 6.0?10.6) years were normal in seven children. Three children showed mildly abnormal or uncertain findings in the first testing but had normal results at the second perimetry at 8.7?10.8 years. Temporal fields of one child who was tested only once at 6.6 years extended to 65 degrees. Conclusions: The risk of visual field constriction after vigabatrin treatment may not be as high in infancy as in adulthood. 1,2 Earl Giller, 1 Julia Tsai, 1 Kenneth Shaw, 3 Vincent Pieribone, 4 Christine Soufflet, and 4 Olivier Dulac ( 1 Marinus Pharmaceuticals Inc., Branford, CT ; 2 Psychiatry ; 3 Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; and 4 Hôpital St. Vincent de Paul, Paris, France ) Rationale: The neurosteroid ganaxolone (GNX) is an allosteric modulator of the GABAA receptor complex distinct from the benzodiazepine site. GNX has protective activity in diverse animal seizure models. Previous clinical studies have indicated that oral GNX is safe and well-tolerated. This study evaluated GNX as add-on therapy in hospitalized children continuing to have seizures despite treatment with available marketed antiepileptic drugs. Methods: Fifteen children (9 male, 6 female), ages 5 to 15 years, enrolled in an open-label flexible dose-escalation study of GNX for the treatment of partial or generalized seizures refractory to conventional antiepileptic drugs. Dosing of GNX ß-cyclodextrin suspension ranged from a starting dose of 1 mg/kg BID to a maximum maintenance dose of 12 mg/kg TID. Dose titration was conducted during a 16-day inpatient hospitalization followed by a 2-month maintenance period, after which patients continued treatment, or withdrew treatment over 2 weeks. Results: Thirteen of the 15 subjects were evaluated at Maintenance Week 4 (MW 4). Two patients were withdrawn prior to evaluation, one due to non-compliance and one to adverse events. The responses of the 13 patients were substantial (≥ 50% seizure reduction) in 4 (one becoming seizure free), moderate (25?49% reduction) in 3 and insufficient (<25% reduction) in 6 patients. Of the 8 patients evaluated at Maintenance Week 8 (MW 8), the responses were substantial in 4 (one of whom was a nonresponder at MW 4), moderate in 2 and insufficient in 2 patients. Three of the 4 eligible patients continued GNX in extension treatment. A total of 17 adverse events (AEs) were reported during the escalation and maintenance phases, 16 attributable to the central nervous system and 1 to the digestive system. Somnolence was the most frequently reported AE. Severity of AEs was either mild or moderate. One patient with a history of abnormal behavior including frequent episodes of agitation experienced a serious adverse event (agitation, hostility, and hallucination requiring extended hospitalization) after a 3 mg/kg TID dose of GNX. These events were considered moderate in severity and possibly related to GNX. The patient was withdrawn from the study, and the events resolved after 11 days. Conclusions: GNX was well-tolerated. A portion of the subjects in this drug-refractory population seemed to respond to GNX (5 of 15 demonstrated at least a 25% decrease in seizure frequency at both time points, and 6 demonstrated at least a 25% decrease in seizure frequency at MW 8). Additional controlled studies are required to confirm the efficacy of GNX for the treatment of children with drug refractory partial or generalized seizures. (Supported by Marinus Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) 1 Meera Gupta, and 2 Dennis J. Dlugos ( 1 School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Division of Neurology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, PA ) Rationale: To identify situations where equipoise (uncertainty) exists regarding initiation of AED therapy after two unprovoked seizures in children. This has implications for design of future placebo-controlled trials for anti-epileptic drug (AED) monotherapy in children. Methods: A survey with ten case scenarios of new-onset epilepsy in children was developed. Features varying across scenarios included: age, seizure semiology, seizure duration, post-ictal state, time between seizures, time since last seizure, EEG and MRI results, and patient comorbidities. The survey was administered to Pediatric health care providers (HCPs). Survey participants were asked two questions about each case: 1) ?Initiation of a daily AED is indicated?? answered using a 5 point Likert scale; and 2) ?I would consider referring this patient for a clinical trial comparing a standard AED with placebo?? answered as yes/no. Results: To date, 151 HCPs completed the survey. Among the 38 HCPs who identified themselves as Pediatric Neurology or Developmental Pediatrics, 13% to 71% responded they disagreed or were uncertain regarding the need to begin an AED. Among the 113 responders who identified themselves as General Pediatrics, Subspecialty Pediatrics or Adult Neurology, 15% to 74% responded they disagreed or were uncertain regarding the need to begin an AED. Features correlating most strongly with desire to initiate an AED (up to 85% of all participants) included abnormal MRI or EEG results, convulsions, and older age. Seizure duration, post-ictal state, time interval between seizures, time interval since the last seizure, and patient comorbidities did not correlate with desire to start an AED. With regard to referral for a placebo-controlled trial, 35?78% of Peds Neuro/Dev Peds respondents were willing to refer, compared to 34?59% of other respondents. Conclusions: Given certain clinical features, equipoise exists regarding the initiation of AED therapy after two unprovoked seizures in children. Placebo-controlled trials are ethical and possible in children with new-onset epilepsy if inclusion criteria based on equipoise are carefully crafted. (Supported by a grant from the Child Neurology Foundation to Meera Gupta.) 1 Dominic Heaney, 2 Maeva Germe, and 2 Christian Otoul ( 1 Department of Epilepsy, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, United Kingdom ; and 2 UCB S.A, Braine-l?Alleud, Belgium ) Rationale: Epilepsy is a common and chronic neurological disorder of childhood encountered by both general pediatricians and pediatric neurologists. Of the 3.5 million people who develop epilepsy annually, 40% are younger than 15 years and more than 80% live in developing countries. The choice of anti-epileptic drug (AED) is determined by diagnosis, but also the potential effectiveness and tolerability for an individual child. In the absence of head-to-head trials directly comparing AEDs in children with partial epilepsy, a scientific review is performed to compare the efficacy and tolerability of newer AEDs from available data. Levetiracetam is here compared to newer AEDs. Methods: Randomized placebo-controlled trials of add-on therapy with levetiracetam, lamotrigine, gabapentin, topiramate and oxcarbazepine in children with partial epilepsy were identified in the Cochrane Library Issue 2, 2006 and Medline (1996 to May 2006). The outcomes considered were the 50% responder rate (efficacy measure) and withdrawal rate (tolerability measure) of levetiracetam and these newer AEDs versus placebo. A fixed-effects analysis was used to estimate Mantel-Haenszel's odds ratio (OR) of these outcomes. Safety evaluation between these AEDs was assessed using Summary Complaint Scores (placebo events subtracted from AED events) on adverse events with an incidence of at least 10%. Results: One placebo-controlled trial was found for each AED. Levetiracetam (OR: 3.30 [95% CI: 1.75; 6.24]) and lamotrigine (OR: 3.82 [95% CI: 1.96; 7.45]) were more effective than gabapentin (OR: 1.36 [95% CI:0.71; 2.58]) and had similar withdrawal rates. Levetiracetam (OR: 0.44 [95% CI:0.17;1.15]) had a lower withdrawal rate than oxcarbazepine (OR: 2.15 [95% CI: 1.00; 4.60]); the efficacy of these drugs was comparable (OR: 2.39 [95% CI: 1.00; 4.60] for oxcarbazepine). Gabapentin (score of 15) and levetiracetam (38) showed a more favorable summary complaint score as compared with lamotrigine (69), topiramate (83) and oxcarbazepine (154). Conclusions: This analysis suggest that add-on therapy with levetiracetam has a favorable responder and withdrawal rates, and Summary Complaint Scores relative to several AEDs in children with partial epilepsy at doses used in clinical trials. Comparative clinical trials and long-term studies of these agents are needed to confirm these findings and assist physicians in making the right treatment choice. (Supported by UCB S.A.) 1 Katherine D. Holland, and 1 Tracy A. Glauser ( 1 Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Sparse information exists about the overall effectiveness and dose response curve characteristics for initial antiepileptic drug (AED) monotherapy in children with partial onset seizures. The purpose of this work is to characterize the effectiveness and dose response curve characteristics of carbamazepine (CBZ) initial monotherapy in a cohort of consecutive children with partial onset epilepsy. Methods: A cohort of 100 consecutive children (1?18 years of age) with newly diagnosed partial onset epilepsy treated with CBZ as initial monotherapy was identified from the New Onset Seizure Clinic at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. Information from the history, physical examination, MRI, and EEG were used to classify the patient's epilepsy and etiology. Seizure control, adherence, and adverse events were recorded at each visit. CBZ responsiveness was defined as seizure freedom for at least 12-months on a stable dose of CBZ monotherapy or breakthrough seizures only with missed doses in patients with evidence of compliance from random levels. Non-responsiveness was defined as the addition or substitution of a second AED because of continued seizures and/or intolerable adverse events. Results: Of the 100 patients studied, 55 became seizure free on CBZ monotherapy, 10 did not tolerate CBZ within the first 3 months of therapy either due to hypersensitivity or intolerable side effects and 35 continued to have seizures. The mean dose in seizure-free children was 11.1 mg/kg/day (standard deviation 3.4 mg/kg/d). The majority of these children responded at the initial dose. Following achievement of the initial target dose 36% of all patients stopped having seizures. There was a weak but statistically significant correlation between age at time of treatment and dose used to control seizures. In children under 12 years age (n = 44) the average daily dose in seizure-free children was 11.8 ± 3.4 mg/kg/d. In those 12 years of age and over (n = 11) the average dose was 9.0 ± 3.4 mg/kg/d in seizure-free children (p < 0.05). The data followed a normal distribution and from this it was determined that over 95% of children < 12 years will respond by 17.5 mg/kg/d and 95% children 12 and over will respond by 15 mg/kg/d. Conclusions: Slightly over half (55%) of children with newly diagnosed partial onset epilepsy become seizure free with initial CBZ monotherapy. A considerable percentage (over one-third of these) became seizure free as soon as they began taking CBZ. The CBZ dose response curve reaches its upper plateau at doses lower than expected. Children under 12 years of age who continue to have seizures at CBZ doses above 17.5 mg/kg/d and those ≥12 years who continue to have seizures at 15 mg/kg/d are very unlikely to respond to CBZ. Other treatments should be considered when seizures continue at CBZ doses above this even if the child is not experiencing intolerable dose related side-effects. (Supported by CCHMC Trustee Grant.) 1 Elena Isaeva, 1 Dmytro Isaev, 2 Rustem Khazipov, and 1 Gregory L. Holmes ( 1 Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Lebanon, NH ; and 2 INMED, INSERM-U29, Marseille, France ) Rationale: The anaesthetic agent isoflurane exerts its anticonvulsant effect on the central nervous system by suppressing excitation and enhancing inhibition. Most studies devoted to investigation of the mechanism of isoflurane action have been performed on culture and slice preparations from adult animals. However the mechanism of the anticonvulsant action of isoflurane on the immature brain is unclear. The influence of isoflurane on GABAergic system and neuronal network activity was studied in hippocampal slices from immature rat brain. Methods: Sprague-Dawley rat pups (postnatal days 8?12) were used throughout the study. Effects of isoflurane (2.5%) were recorded using extracellular and whole-cell patch technique. All intracellular recordings were performed at 0mV (reversal potential for excitatory synaptic transmission). Results: We studied the effect of isoflurane on multi-unit activity (MUA), giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs), spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSC) and tonic GABA currents recorded from the CA1 pyramidal cell layer while extracellular K+ ([K+]o) was changed in the range of 3.5?6mM. Application of isoflurane on hippocampal slices in normal [K+]o (3.5mM) solution significantly decreases amplitude and increase the inter-event interval of MUA. In whole-cell recordings isoflurane significantly increased the tonic GABA conductance; prolong decay and decrease the frequency of sIPSC. Increasing [K+]o to 6 mM led to increasing of frequency of GDPs. Adding of isoflurane to high [K+]o solution had a biphasic effect on GDPs. At first the frequency GDPs were two-fold increased followed by decreasing in amplitude (59.4 ± 1.1%), increasing in duration (62.8 ± 3.3%) and frequency (43.2 ± 3.4%) of GDPs. There were not significant differences between the effect of isoflurane on MUA, sIPSCs and tonic GABA currents in two studied conditions (normal and high [K+]o solution). Gabazine added to extracellular solution in concentration, which selectively blocks synaptic GABAA receptor (1?M), increased MUA frequency, blocked sIPSCs, GDPs and had no apparent effect on tonic GABA conductance. In 6mM [K+]o solution application gabazine evoked interictal discharges. After application of isoflurane, the frequency of gabazine-induced interictal events decreased from 0.30 Hz to 0.25 Hz. Outward, bicuculline sensitive currents appeared in the presence of isoflurane simultaneously with interictal discharges. Anticonvulsive effect of isoflurane was completely abolished by adding 15 ?M bicuculline into extracellular solution. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that isoflurane has multiple effects in the immature brain. Even though GABA is depolarizing in the immature brain, this volatile anaesthetic decreases the synchronization of neuronal activity, mainly through enhancing the GABAergic inhibition. (Supported by the Epilepsy Foundation.) 1,2 Jinsook Kim, 1,2,3 Alexei Kondratyev, and 1,2 Karen Gale ( 1 Interdisciplinary Program In Neuroscience, Georgetown University, Washington, DC ; 2 Department of Pharmacology ; and 3 Department of Pediatrics ) Rationale: Several AEDs induce pronounced apoptotic neuronal death in specific brain regions in the neonatal rat (Bittigau et al., PNAS,2002). Moreover, AEDs in doses subthreshold for causing cell death in the neonatal brain, can cause substantial cell death when given in combination with other AEDs. Although newer AEDs such as topiramate (TPM) and levetiracetam (LEV) cause little or no cell death in neonatal rats when given alone, neither has been examined for effects on cell death when combined with other AEDs. This is of particular concern because these drugs are frequently used in polytherapy. Therefore, we examined the neurotoxicity of TPM and LEV alone and in combination with phenytoin (PHT) in rat pups. We also examined the effect of carbamazepine (CBZ), a drug often used during pregnancy and childhood. Methods: TPM (20, 40, 80 mg/kg), LEV (250, 500, 1000 mg/kg) or CBZ (25, 50, 100 mg/kg), was given to Sprague-Dawley rat pups at postnatal day 7, 24h prior to sacrifice. The following doses were also tested in combination with 50 mg/kg PHT: TPM (20, 40, 80 mg/kg); LEV (500 mg/kg); CBZ (25, 50 mg/kg). In addition, LEV (250, 500 mg/kg) was tested in combination with CBZ (50 mg/kg). Cell death was evaluated by TUNEL and Fluoro-Jade B staining in 20micron coronal brain sections throughout the forebrain and midbrain. Results: Although TPM (20?80 mg/kg) alone did not induce cell death, it significantly enhanced cell death induced by PHT, even at the lowest dose. CBZ alone did not cause cell death up to 50 mg/kg, but when combined with PHT, 50 mg/kg (but not 25 mg/kg) CBZ significantly enhanced PHT-induced cell death. Cell death was most marked in thalamus and striatum. LEV (250?1000 mg/kg) alone did not induce cell death, and doses up to 500 mg/kg were without effect on PHT-induced cell death. No detectable cell death resulted from the combination of LEV (250 mg/kg) with CBZ (50 mg/kg). Conclusions: In comparison to most traditional AEDs, CBZ, TPM and LEV are relatively devoid of a pro-apoptotic action in the developing brain, when administered in a dose range equivalent to, or higher than, the therapeutic range for seizure control. However, our data indicate that they exhibit distinct profiles of interaction with PHT. Whereas both TPM and CBZ significantly exacerbated PHT-induced cell death, LEV was devoid of this effect. Our data underscore the importance of evaluating the safety of AEDs given in combinations and not merely extrapolating from the effects of exposure to single drugs. Our data suggest that the combination of CBZ and LEV minimizes neurotoxicity in the developing brain and may therefore hold promise as a potential treatment of choice for AED therapy in pregnancy, preterm infants and neonates. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation predoctoral fellowship, Partnership for Pediatric Epilepsy Research and NIH (NS 20576, MH 02040, NS 041231, HD047890).) 1 Sun Jun Kim, and 1 Hyuk Lee ( 1 Department of Pediatrics, Chonbuk National University Hospital, Jeonju, Jeonbuk, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to verifying the usefulness of noninvasive indicator test (Neurocheck?) to predict hypohidrosis and hypohidrosis-related symptoms in newly diagnosed pediatric epileptic patients with topiramate. Methods: A total of 46 epileptic patients (22 boys and 24 girls) with topiramate were evaluated in this study at the Department of Pediatrics, Chonbuk National University Hospital. We have measured sweating functions using a noninvasive sweating test (Neurocheck?) before and 3 months later after topiramate initiation. We also made a direct survey for the hypohidrosis and hypohidrosis-related symptoms during topiramate treatment. Results: The mean age was 7.8 ± 3.2. The mean dosage of topiramate was 4.5 ± 0.8 mg/kg/day. Among the 46 epileptic patients, 17 patients (37.0%) experienced hypohidrosis and hypohidrosis-related symptoms on survey: 12 (26.1%) have facial flushing, 4 (8.7%) heat intolerance, 1 (2.2%) lethargy, but no one have anhidrosis. Among the 17 patients, 13 patients showed delayed sweat test after medication. Sixteen out of 46 patients (34.8%) showed delayed sweat function test by Neurocheck? after medication. Thirteen out of these 16 patients had hypohydrosis-related symptoms. The overall measures of agreement between Neurocheck? and the survey was 76.5%. Conclusions: The main result indicates that Neurocheck? could be a useful test to detect and predict the topiramate induced hypohidrosis in pediatric epileptic patients. We recommend that patients who show the delayed, particularly delayed over 3 minutes, in Neurocheck? test after topiramate initiation should be aware the hypohidrosis and hypohidrosis-related symptoms. 1 Irina Katz, 2,3 Jinsook Kim, 2,3 Karen Gale, and 1,2,3 Alexei Kondratyev ( 1 Pediatrics, Georgetown University, Washington, DC ; 2 Interdisciplinary Program In Neuroscience, Georgetown University, Washington, DC ; and 3 Pharmacology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Several antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) induce pronounced apoptotic neuronal death in specific brain regions during the first two postnatal weeks in rat (Bittigau et al., PNAS, 99:15089, 2002). The corresponding period in humans extends from late gestation through early infancy. Since excessive neuronal loss in late prenatal or early postnatal development may contribute to long-term adverse effects, it is important to identify treatment regimens that are devoid of this deleterious action. Here we examined the effects of lamotrigine (LTG, 10?100 mg/kg) on cell death in several brain regions of neonatal rats. We also examined the effects of LTG given in combination with either phenytoin or MK801. Methods: LTG (10, 20, 30, 50, 100 mg/kg) was administered to Sprague-Dawley rat pups at postnatal day 7 (PD7), 24hr prior to sacrifice. The following drug combinations were also tested: LTG 10, 20 or 30 mg/kg + phenytoin (50 mg/kg) and LTG (20 mg/kg) + MK801 (0.5 mg/kg). Phenytoin (50 mg/kg) and MK801 (0.5 mg/kg) given alone were also evaluated. Cell death was evaluated in 20 ?m coronal brain sections by TUNEL assay in several brain areas, including striatum, thalamus, multiple cortical regions and the hippocampus. Results: LTG alone administered at doses of 10?30 mg/kg did not induce significant cell death. At a dose of 50 mg/kg, 50% of the animals showed increased cell death in thalamus. Administration of 100 mg/kg resulted in significant increase in cell death in all brain areas examined except frontal cortex. Combined application of LTG (20 mg/kg) with MK-801 resulted in an enhancement of the MK-801-induced cell death effect in multiple regions. A similar enhancement of phenytoin-induced cell death was observed in the presence of 30 mg/kg LTG. In contrast, the lower dose of LTG (20 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the phenytoin-induced cell death. The lowest dose of LTG (10 mg/kg) was without effect. Conclusions: Our results indicate that therapeutic doses of LTG alone do not induce cell death in the neonatal rat brain in marked contrast to traditional AEDs such as phenytoin, valproate and phenobarbital. However, when given in combination with other pro-apoptotic agents LTG may potentiate cell death, depending upon the dose and the specific drug combination. This is similar to the profile we have observed with topiramate in other studies. However, a unique feature of LTG is its ability, in low doses, to attenuate the cell death induced by phenytoin. It will now be of interest to determine whether this protective action of LTG in the neonatal brain can also be seen when LTG is combined with other traditional AEDs. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline Research Grant, the Epilepsy Foundation, and NIH grants MH02040, U10 HD047890.) 1 Zhihong Lu, 2 Nathan B. Fountain, 3 Joan A. Conry, 4 Ildefonso Rodriguez Leyva, 5 Juvenal Gutierrez Moctezuma, 1 Edubijes Salas, 6 Rene Coupez, and 6 Armel Stockis ( 1 Neuroscience, UCB Inc, Smyrna, GA ; 2 University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; 3 Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ; 4 Hospital Central, San Luis Potossi, Mexico ; 5 Centro Medico Nacional 20 de Noviembre, Del. Benito Juarez, Mexico ; and 6 UCB S.A., Braine l?Alleud, Belgium ) Rationale: Levetiracetam has demonstrated efficacy in children but the pharmacokinetics in children are unknown. The purpose of this study was to assess the multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam and its major metabolite ucb L057 in children with partial-onset seizures and determine whether it is affected by adjunctive carbamazepine or valproate. A secondary objective was to correlate levetiracetam concentrations in plasma and saliva and assess its safety and clinical response. Methods: Design was an open-label, multicenter study. 21 children (4 to 12 years old) with epilepsy taking carbamazepine (13) or valproate (8) received adjunctive levetiracetam. Levetiracetam was initiated at 20 mg/kg/day and titrated at 2-week intervals to 40 and then 60 mg/kg/day. Twelve-hour pharmacokinetics were determined at the end of each 2-week period. Efficacy was estimated from the partial seizure frequency per week and Global Evaluation Scale. Results: Levetiracetam was rapidly absorbed following oral dosing, with median tmax of 0.5 hour and t1/2 of 4.9 hours. Dose proportional increases were observed for Cmax and AUC(0?12) over the dose range. Pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam and ucb L057 were not markedly different with concomitant carbamazepine or valproate; clearance was 7?13% faster and AUC was decreased by 15?24% in those on carbamazepine compared to valproate. Levetiracetam did not affect trough carbamazepine or valproate. Concentration in saliva and plasma were strongly correlated. Seizure frequency declined by 50% or more in 43% of subjects in the intent-to-treat population (n = 21) and in 56% of those with seizures at baseline (n = 16). Marked or moderate improvement occurred in 80% and 75% of patients based on Global Evaluation Scale ratings by investigators and parents/guardians, respectively. Levetiracetam was well tolerated. Conclusions: Levetiracetam exhibits simple pharmacokinetics in children, with rapid absorption and dose-proportional kinetics. Small but not clinically relevant differences were observed between subjects receiving carbamazepine and valproate, suggesting significant dose adjustment is usually not necessary. This substantiates prior assessments that levetiracetam clearance is higher in children than adults, necessitating a higher dose in children on a mg/kg basis, and suggests it is useful add-on therapy for children with refractory partial-onset seizures regardless of baseline therapy. (Supported by UCB Pharma, Inc.) 1 Patricia E. McGoldrick, and 1 Steven M. Wolf ( 1 Neurology, Beth Israel, New York, NY ) Rationale: Parents and caregivers of children with infantile spasms and Landau-Kleffner syndrome are often concerned re: possible side effects of and use of intramuscular injections for administration of adrenocorticotropic hormone. Methods: A retrospective chart review was used to identify children who were treated with intramuscular adrenocorticotropic hormone. Caregivers were contacted and completed a questionnaire regarding their concerns before and after treatment. Anaysis was done to determine whether or not their fears were warranted; whether or not they would recommend treatment to others and what information they felt would be most helpful for families undertaking the decision-making process. Results: A total of ten families responded. They overwhelmingly felt that they were happy that they proceeded with treatment despite their initial fears; their biggest concerns before treatment were fear of injecting medciation, side effect they feared most was blood dyscrasias, most troublesome side effects were weight gain, insomnia and irritability. Recommendations were: need for easy access to medical personnel and written and video information regarding the medicaiton. Conclusions: The use of adrenocorticotropic hormone poses challenges when providers are attempting to convince families to use this treatment option. Families felt, in retrospect, that treatment was not as overwhelming as they anticipated and asked for instructional materials and abiity to easily contact providers and other families who could serve as resources. 1 Franklin R. Montero-Contreras ( 1 Unit of Pediatric Neurology; Child Unit of Epilepsy, Centro Medico Universidad Central del Este, Santo Domingo, Distrito Nacional, Dominican Republic ) Rationale: To determine the efficacy of Leviteracetam (LEV) in the control of clinical convulsive crisis in the epilepsies or epileptics syndromes in children. Although Levetiracetam has been only approved for adults, it has showed to be effect in children. Methods: Between September 2002 and January 2005, twenty-four chil-dren of our unit were treated with Levetiracetam (40?50 Mg/Kg/day). Our retrospective-analytic study was carried out in fifteen patients (age: 12 months ? 13 years). All patients had their crisis diary checked before and after the addition of Levetiracetam. The follow up was from 8 to 26 months (average 15 months). The patients were classified in three groups, according to the 1989 ILAE classification. The reduction of crisis was rated in percentage (%). Results: We had seven idiopathic syndromes, three symptomatic syndromes and five cryptogenic syndromes. We had eight patients with partial epilepsies and seven patients with generalized epilepsies. All groups showed significant reduction of epileptic crisis (70% in more than 65% of patients). We observed no severe significants adverses reactions. In all patients the levetiracetam was add to polytherapy. Conclusions: The fact of making a correct diagnosis of the epileptics syndromes goes in favor of taking a better therapy choice. The reduction of frequency of crisis was significant. It was shown that Levetiracetam has a wide range of action. 1 Seth L. Ness, 1 Jeffrey S. Nye, 1 Caryn L. Kurland, 2 Sylvia Stubler, 2 Edward Maseda, 1 Steven Wang, 1 Bindu Murthy, and 1 Lisa Ford ( 1 Johnson  and 2 Ortho-McNeil Neurologics, Inc., Titusville, NJ ) Rationale: Topiramate (TPM) has been evaluated in several double-blind, randomized, controlled trials of epilepsy in children as young as 2 years of age; studies in infants are currently underway. The dosages of TPM as adjunctive therapy that are currently being evaluated in infants were based, in part, on findings from a survey of neurologists and epileptologists with personal experience in using TPM in infants. Methods: A random sample of neurologists and epileptologists participated in an online survey of TPM dosing practices in infants. A total of 101 physicians met eligibility requirements and completed the survey. The majority (69%) had treated at least 50 infants with epilepsy (mean, 198) during the last 3 years. The majority (94%) also had experience in using TPM in infants; about 1 in 5 (19%) of all infants had been treated with TPM. The survey consisted of 19 questions concerning initial dose when starting infants on TPM; weekly rate of TPM dose increase; maximum TPM dose for infants; typical TPM maintenance dose; and use of blood levels for adjusting TPM therapy. Results: Physicians in this survey generally agreed on ≤3.0 mg/kg/day TPM as a starting dose for infants and on ≤3.0 mg/kg/day as a titration increment. However, maintenance doses, maximum doses, and target blood levels varied widely. Although most physicians (88%) used maintenance doses of ≤15 mg/kg/day, 3% used maintenance doses of 25?50 mg/kg/day; 9% used maximum doses of 40?60 mg/kg/day. Conclusions: Further studies are underway to define weight-based TPM dosages for infants, which may vary according to age/development. These systematic evaluations of pharmacokinetics and efficacy across a wide range of TPM dosages in infants with epilepsy will close a critical gap in information available to clinicians using TPM to treat epilepsy in children. (Supported by Johnson  2 Laboratory of Neuroscience-Psychiatry, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ; and 3 LIM 21 ? Psychiatry, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil ) Rationale: This study aimed to prospectively evaluate the risks and benefits of valproate/divalproate and lamotrigine co-administration in a pediatric population with refractory epilepsy. Methods: Seventy-six patients received an association of valproate and lamotrigine according to Gubermann?s criteria (1993). Results were established in accordance with seizure control, adverse effects and tolerability. Treatment was considered effective when seizure reduction > 50% was obtained. Results: Association of valproate and lamotrigine was considered effective in 69 (90.8%) of all patients. Total seizure control (seizure-free) was obtained in 45 (59.2%) patients. Although seizure control was considered unsatisfactory (<50%) in the remaining patients, drop-attacks and secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures were reduced in nine (11.8%) patients, maintained on treatment. Tremor occurred in six (7.9%) patients; urinary incontinence and ataxia in one (1.3%). Skin rash occurred as an early manifestation in six (7.9%) patients, of which all had a previous history of hypersensitivity to anti-epileptic drugs. Reasons for treatment fall-out were unsatisfactory seizure control in five (6.6%) and adverse effects in three (3.9%). Conclusions: In this series, seizure control was observed in most children with refractory epilepsy, some of which had a previous history of unsatisfactory response either to lamotrigine or to valproato, both in monotherapy or polytherapy. Adverse effects were infrequent, but skin rash was observed more frequently than in other series in which valproate or lamotrigine were used separately. However, this risk may be minimized by slow introduction and increase of the dosage of lamotrigine and by exclusion of patients with a previous history of hypersensitivity. (Supported by FAPESP 03/07724?2.) 1 Andrew H. Schapiro, 1 Katherine D. Holland, and 1 Tonya M. Phillips ( 1 Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Phenobarbital is widely used for the treatment of neonatal seizures, but is effective in only about one-third to one-half of neonates with seizures. Second line treatments such as phenytoin or benzodiazepines have also been of limited effectiveness. In addition, in animal studies, all of these drugs increase neuronal death. Levetiracetam (LEV) potentially represents an alternative option because of its novel mechanism of action and favorable pharmacological profile. However, little is know about the effects of LEV in neonates with seizures. The purpose of this work is to characterize the safety and efficacy of levetiracetam in neonates with seizures. Methods: The effectiveness of LEV was studied retrospectively in a group of neonates with EEG confirmed seizures. Patients were identified from a database of EEGs done in the neonatal intensive care unit at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center and associated hospitals over the past 18 months. Neonates were included if they had electrographic seizures (with or without clinical correlate) on an initial EEG and in whom LEV was used within the first 52 weeks post-conceptual age. Gestational age, post-conceptual age at seizure onset and at time of initiation of LEV, seizure frequency as determined from serial EEGs and clinical course, etiology of seizures, concomitant antiepileptic therapies, dose of LEV, and side effects associated with LEV therapy were recorded. Results: Five neonates met the entry criteria. The average gestational age was 34 weeks (SD 7.1) with the average post-conceptual age at seizure onset being 39.2 weeks. The etiologies included malformations of cortical development (2), prematurity with intracranial hemorrhage (2) and unknown (1). The median seizure frequency at the time of the initial EEG was 24 per day (range 1?48). All infants were initially treated with and maintained on Phenobarbital. Following initiation of phenobarbital therapy, the median seizure frequency was 7.5 per day (range 1?48). Levetiracetam therapy was initiated at an average postconceptual age of 41.2 weeks (SD 5.3). Doses of LEV were titrated to effect and ranged from 24 to 72 mg/kg/d. No treatment-related side effects were seen even at the highest LEV dose. During LEV therapy, the median seizure frequency was 1 seizure per day (range 0.3?24). One neonate became seizure free and another had over a 75% reduction in seizure frequency; two infants had a 50?75% reduction in seizure frequency and there was no response to LEV in the remaining infant. In addition to infants that met entry criteria, another 4 infants were treated with LEV within the first 6 months of life. In these infants, levetiracetam doses ranged from 25?86 mg/kg/d. No treatment related side effects were reported. Conclusions: Levetiracetam was well tolerated in neonates, even at high doses. Seizure frequency was reduced in all but one neonate and one infant became seizure-free. Levetiracetam should be considered in the treatment of neonatal seizures. (Supported by UCB Pharma.) 1 Audrey Scully, 1 Joan A. Conry, 1 Marian J. Kolodgie, 1 Andrew Renuart, 1 Michael Sigman, and 2 Jay Salpekar ( 1 Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ; and 2 Psychiatry, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: The use of extended release formulation antiepileptic medications has the advantage of once daily dosing, but requires the ability to swallow the tablet without chewing. In pediatric patients with moderate mental retardation, the ability to swallow tablets potentially limits the use of extended release formulations. This study was designed to evaluate the ability of caregivers to teach pediatric patients with moderate mental retardation to swallow Depakote ER tablets. Methods: Pediatric patients taking stable dose Depakote Sprinkles tablets with moderate mental retardation were recruited to participate in a clinical trial which involved transition to Depakote Extended Release (Depakote ER) tablets. A structured protocol to teach patients to swallow tablets was implemented for 4 weeks. Depakote ER tablets were then introduced. The ability to swallow tablets consistently without chewing was the primary outcome measure. Trough serum valproic acid levels were measured prior to transition, and 2?4 weeks post trasition. Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) and adaptive behavior rating scales were completed initially and at the completion of the 8 week trial. Results: Ten subjects (6 male) with moderate mental retardation (IQ between 40?60) age 11.1 years (mean 7?17 years) were recuited. Two were nonverbal, one was autistic, and one had a tracheostomy. Nine of 10 successfully learned to consistently swallow the tablets in 4 weeks; the last learned in several months. The valproic acid level was stable and remained therapeutic in 5 patients. Three patients had a decrease in valproic acid level 2 weeks after transition, and 2 of those 3 had an increase in seizure frequency. In 2 patients the valproic acid levels were not measured due to a protocol violation. None of the patients had significant choking, gagging or refusal to swallow tablets. Conclusions: Patients with moderate mental retardation can learn to swallow Depakote ER tablets without chewing, allowing the transition from twice daily dosing of Depakote Sprinkles to once daily dosing of Depakote ER tablets. In this population, the convenience of once daily dosing for a chronic daily medication lessens the caregiver burden of medication administration and potentially improves compliance. Monitoring the valproic acid level prior to transition and 2?4 weeks later will ensure adequacy of trough valproic acid level. Developmental delay with moderate mental retardation and/or inability to speak should not preclude the use of extended release formulation of medications. A structured program to teach how to swallow tablets, and careful safety monitoring of patients, can result in successful use of once daily medication dosing. (Supported by Abbott Laboratries.) 1 Raj D. Sheth, and 1 Bruce P. Hermann ( 1 Neurology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI ) Rationale: Children and adults with epilepsy experience poor bone mineralization. This mineralization deficit appears to increase with longer duration of epilepsy and/or its treatment. The effect of antiepileptic drug (AED) initial monotherapy compared to polytherapy on bone mineralization has not been examined previously. We determined BMD in children treated with monotherapy (only ever exposed to carbamazepine (CBZ), valpraote (VPA) or lamotrigine (LTG) compared with AED polytherapy and to healthy controls. Methods: Age-normalized z-score total body BMD (Lunar?) was compared in patients 6?18 years treated for epilepsy with initial monotherapy with VPA, CBZ or LTG were compared with those patients receiving polytherapy and healthy controls. General exclusion criteria for patients included being non-ambulatory, treated for co-morbid disease or consuming known bone-adverse medications. Exclusions from the monotherapy group included exposure to an AED other than initial and ongoing monotherapy with either VPA, CBZ or LTG. Activity and calcium intake were examined. Statistical analysis included ANOVA and student t-test. Results: 33 patients (13 ± 3y; 13f, 20m) treated with monotherapy (CBZ = 13, VPA = 15, LTG = 4) were compared to 40 patients (11.7 ± 3.5y; 27f, 13m) recieving AED polytherapy and 36 healthy controls (13 ± 2y.6yr; 22f, 14m). Age, height and weight were not statistically different between groups. Duration of epilepsy for the monotherapy group was 5.2y (CI = 4, 6.4)compared to 6.3y (CI = 5,7.7). Age mean z-scores for total BMD was (0.5 ± .17) for patients recieving monotherapy and was similar to controls (0.5 ± .15). However, patients receiving AED polytherapy had lower BMD (-0.04 ± .15) than for patients recieving AED monotherapy or for controls, p < 0.02. Conclusions: AED Polytherapy was associated with significant reduction in BMD compared to patients recieving AED monotherapy. This reduction was far greater than the non-statistical trend towards the slightly longer treatment duration of polytherapy patients compared to monotherapy patients. Furthermore, while patients recieving AED monotherapy had similar BMD compared to controls, patients recieving AED polytherapy experienced a significant osteopenia when compared to controls. With larger number of patients the specific effect of inidvidual AED on bone health should become apparent. (Supported by Investigator initiated grant from GSK.) 1 Deepa Sirsi, 1 Shrishti Nangia, 1 Jacqueline La Mothe, 1 Barry E. Kosofsky, and 1 Gail E. Solomon ( 1 Child Neurology, New York Presbyterian Hospital ? Cornell, New York, NY ) Rationale: Seizures are indicative of underlying neurologic dysfunction in neonates. Repeated seizures may be deleterious to the brain even without disturbances of ventilation or perfusion. Seizures are refractory to first line antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), phenobarbital (PB)and phenytoin (PHT) in 20?50% of children. In neonates AEDs can be even less effective in controlling seizures. Rapid control of status epilepticus with midazolam has been demonstrated in 2 previous studies with complete clinical and electrographic response in neonates who did not respond to PB and PHT. Methods: We report our experience with 3 neonates with status epilepticus secondary to HIE, Group B Streptococcal (GBS) meningitis and Ohtahara syndrome. The age at presentation was 1 day for the neonates with HIE and Ohtahara syndrome. The neonate with GBS meningitis presented at 23 days. Midazolam was initiated on day 2 of seizures for the neonates with HIE and meningitis. The neonate with Ohtahara syndrome initially was started on pentobarbital drip day 2 of seizures; midazolam was initiated day 4 as there was lack of response to PB, PHT and pentobarbital. Results: Seizures in all 3 neonates did not respond to PB (levels of 50?60 mcg/ml) and PHT (18?22 mcg/ml). The neonate with Ohtahara syndrome did not respond to pentobarbital in addition. Seizures in all responded to midazolam infusion. The neonate with meningitis developed hypotension which responded to inotropic support. There were no significant cardio-vascular side effects in any of the neonates. The neonate with Ohtahara syndrome who had received pentobarbital developed Necrotizing Enterocolitis prior to initiation of midazolam. Midazolam loading dose was used in the neonate with Ohtahara syndrome. Clinical and electrographic seizure control was acheived within a range of 6?72 hours after initiation of midazolam. The maximum dose of midazolam dose used was 0.2 mg/kg/hr. Conclusions: Midazolam was effective in the management of 3 neonates with refractory seizures that did not respond to PB, PHT and pentobarbital. Midazolam may be considered a safe and effective AED in refractory neonatal seizures of diverse etiologies. Midazolam may help acheive relatively rapid clinical and electrographic seizure control. This may be an important factor in decreasing the severity of neurodevelopmental sequelae. 1,2 Pasquale Striano, 2 Maria Margherita Mancardi, 1 Antonietta Coppola, 2 Maria Giuseppina Baglietto, 1 Salvatore Striano, 2 Federico Zara, 2 Roberto Gaggero, and Collaborative Group of Italian League Against Epil ( 1 Department of Neurological Sciences, Federico II University, Napoli, Italy ; and 2 Muscular and Neurodegenerative Disease Unit and Child Neuropsychiatry, Institute G. Gaslini, Genova ) Rationale: Severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy (SMEI) or Dravet syndrome is a catastrophic encephalopathy with onset in the first year of life, more often with febrile hemiclonic or generalized status epilepticus, and secondary developmental delay. Although valproate, topiramate and stiripentol may give some benefit, drug treatment of SMEI is usually disappointing. Levetiracetam (LEV) is a new antiepileptic drug (AED) with a mechanism of action distinct from that of other AEDs and broad spectrum of activity including antimyoclonic activity. We evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of LEV in patients with diagnosis of SMEI. Methods: 10 children (mean age 8.4 years; range 4?16 years) with clinical diagnosis of SMEI were enrolled in a multicentric, prospective, open-label study. 5 out of 10 patients showed SCN1A mutation. A mean of 2 (range: 1?5) AEDs were tried before LEV trial. LEV was given in add-on up to the dose of about 50?60 mg/kg/day. Responders were defined as having more than 50% reduction in the frequency of seizures compared with baseline. Results: After a mean period of 8.5 months of treatment (range 6?12 months), 7 patients had more than 50% reduction in seizure frequency. None of the patient was seizure-free. LEV was generally well-tolerated. Mild adverse events (i.e., sedation, irritability) occurred in three patients. Conclusions: This pilot study suggests that LEV may be a well-tolerated drug that may give some benefit in SMEI. Randomized placebo-controlled studies should be considered to evaluate further this promising therapy. 1 Julia Tsai, 1,2 Earl Giller, 1 Kenneth Shaw, 3 Vincent Pieribone, 4 Christine Soufflet, and 4 Olivier Dulac ( 1 Marinus Pharmaceuticals Inc., Branford, CT ; 2 Psychiatry ; 3 Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; and 4 Hôpital St. Vincent de Paul, Paris, France ) Rationale: Ganaxolone (GNX), a neurosteroid, has been evaluated for the treatment of epilepsy in several Phase II clinical trials, including an inpatient trial in children with treatment-refractory seizures (see companion abstract). The present study evaluated GNX in children with treatment-refractory seizures in an outpatient setting. Methods: Forty-five children (25 male, 20 female), ages 2 to 15 years, with seizures refractory to conventional antiepileptic drugs enrolled in an open-label, flexible dose-escalation study of GNX. Thirty-five had epileptic spasms with a historical diagnosis of infantile spasms (IS). After a pre-dosing observation period (OP), ganaxolone was titrated over a 9-week period at doses from 1 mg/kg BID to 12 mg/kg TID, followed by an 8-week maintenance period. Results: Twenty-seven (60%) of 45 patients completed the study. For all seizure types, twelve (27%) patients were responders (≥50% seizure reduction). Of the 35 with spasms, 1 patient experienced remission and 10 others were responders. Of 9 with absence seizures, 2 experienced remission and 1 other was a responder. Of 6 with partial seizures, 1 experienced remission and 2 others were responders. Of 12 with tonic seizures, 3 were responders. Neither of the patients with myoclonic seizures completed treatment. Central nervous system adverse events (CNS AEs) occurring in ≥ 5% of subjects were agitation (38%), adverse change in seizures (36%) and somnolence (24%). Subjects experienced respiratory/ear infections: pharyngitis (36%), otitis media (16%) and bronchitis (11%). Non-serious AEs leading to discontinuation were adverse change in seizures (6), agitation (4), increase in seizures and agitation (1), nausea (1), and somnolence (1). One withdrew due to insufficient clinical response. A total of 7 patients reported 9 serious AEs (7 possibly related and 2 unrelated). The majority (6/9) occurring in 5 patients were a change in seizure frequency and/or nature, including 1 who experienced 2 episodes of status epilepticus. Of the 5, 2 discontinued GNX. There was 1 event each of severe otitis, increased seizure frequency plus somnolence, and GNX accidental overdose. Conclusions: A substantial proportion of these drug-refractory children showed improvement with GNX (overall responder rate 27%; 31% in patients with a historical diagnosis of IS). Controlled trials are necessary to determine whether the worsening seen in some patients is a treatment-related effect or represents the natural disease course. Many subjects exhibited respiratory and ear infections, which is expected in a pediatric population. Transitory CNS AEs were common, but did not result in discontinuation in the majority of subjects. The results support controlled trials with GNX. (Supported by Marinus Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) 1 Gerard Piñol, 1 Divya S. Khurana, 1 Agustin Legido, 1 Sanjeev V. Kothare, 1 Harold Marks, 1 H. Huntley Hardison, 1 Joseph J. Melvin, and 1 Ignacio Valencia ( 1 Section of Child Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Levetiracetam (LEV) is a new antiepileptic drug (AED) approved as adjunctive therapy in children older than 4 years with partial or secondary generalized epilepsy. Myoclonic seizures are often difficult to control requiring several AEDs. Studies in juvenile myoclonic epilepsy have shown good response of myoclonic seizures to LEV. The use of LEV in myoclonic seizures due to symptomatic generalized epilepsy in children is scarce. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of LEV in the treatment of this type of seizures in children. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the records of children with myoclonic seizures due to symptomatic generalized epilepsy, who were treated with LEV at our institution between 2003?2005. Reduction of myoclonic seizures was assessed. Results: Twelve patients (9M, 3F), mean age 7.2 years (range: 2?12) were identified. Two of them had myoclonic seizures only, while ten had additional types of seizures including tonic, tonic-clonic, complex partial, and drop attacks. Eleven patients had developmental delay, mental retardation or learning disability. Mean LEV dose was 39 mg/kg/day (range: 21?69 mg/kg/day), mean number of previous AEDs 2.6 (range 0?7), and mean number of concomitant AEDs 1.63 (range 0?3). One patient was on monotherapy. Mean follow up was 12 months. Myoclonic seizure reduction was as follows: 100% in 1, 75?99% in 2, 50?74% in 2, 25?49% in 3, and < 25% in 3. Overall, forty two percent of patients had 50% reduction in myoclonic seizures. Side effects included transient drowsiness in 2, and behavioral problems requiring discontinuing LEV within a month of therapy in 1. Conclusions: LEV proved to be effective and safe in our group of children with myoclonic seizures due to symptomatic generalized epilepsy. Further studies are necessary to assess the use of LEV monotherapy or polytherapy in myoclonic seizures in children. 1 Beverly S. Wical, 2 Frank J. Ritter, and 1 Shani K. Norberg ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Gillette Children's Specialty Healthcare, St. Paul, MN ; and 2 Pediatric Neurology, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, St. Paul, MN ) Rationale: Neonatal seizures continue to lack therapies with proven efficacy and safety. Up to 50% of neonatal seizures are not controlled despite treatment with phenobarbital (PB) or fosphenytoin (fPHT). Concerns about toxicity of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in this special population persist. Term infants who fail standard therapy require additional treatment. Levetiractam (LEV) is considered a safe medication, with no significant drug interactions and no known neurotoxicity. We present our experience with LEV in 19 full term newborns. Methods: Retrospective chart analysis was performed: we identified 19 term infants who received LEV in the first 28 days of life. Charts were reviewed for demographics, birth weight, gestational age, age of seizure onset, and day of life LEV started. We reviewed other treatments, etiology of seizures, EEG and MRI results. Initial LEV and maintenance doses were recorded. Adverse events and side effects were reviewed. Number of infants continuing on LEV, and number seizure free were identified. Results: Nineteen infants with gestational ages 38 to 42 weeks receieved LEV for clinical seizures. LEV was administered by oral or nasogastric route. Seven infants were female, 12 male. Etiology for seizures included: cerebral infarction (6), unknown (4), hypoxia (2), congenital brain anomaly (2), extra-axial hemmorhage (2), mitochondrial disorder (1), bacterial meningitis (1), and prolonged hypoglycemia (1). All had EEG studies and MRI. Prior to starting LEV, 14 infants were treated with PB (level =/ > 30), fPHT (level =/ > 18), or both. One infant received a lower dose of PB; 4 received LEV as initial treatment. Doses of LEV given in the first 24 hr of treatment were 4 mg/kg to 42 mg/kg (mean 16 mg/kg). Maintenence doses ranged from 25 mg/kg/d to 90 mg/kg/d (mean 32 mg/kg/d). No infant had any significant adverse event related to LEV initiation or continued treatment. Transient initial sedation was noted in 3 infants. Prior to reaching optimal dosing, 2 infants discontinued LEV due to side effects. One was irritable, the other was sedated. Three infants stopped LEV due to lack of efficacy; all 3 failed multiple other medications. Fourteen of 19 infants continued LEV therapy beyond the neonatal period. Eleven became seizure free on LEV. Eight discontinued AEDs; 7 have been followed for 34 ? 57 mo (mean 32 mo) and remain seizure free. Six infants continue on LEV with excellent seizure control; duration of follow up is 9 to 45 mo (mean 18 mo). Conclusions: No significant adverse events were identified in this retrospective study of 19 term infants who received LEV. The majority (14/19) had difficult to treat seizures. It was well tolerated by 17/19 (90%) of infants. Fourteen of 19 (73%) received benefit from LEV therapy; 11/19 (58%) became seizure free. Our study suggests LEV is a promising therapy for neonatal seizures. Larger studies of safety and efficacy are needed. 1 Jorge G. Burneo, 1 Shareefa Abdool, and 1 Richard S. McLachlan ( 1 Epilepsy Programme, University of Western Ontario?LHSC, London, ON, Canada ) Rationale: The choice of drugs for the management of newly diagnosed epilepsy is based in evidence, that takes into account efficacy and safety. Comparisons between medications for specific syndromes or age-groups have not been carried out. We conducted a survey on the management of epilepsy among Canadian epileptologists. Methods: We mailed a questionnaire on the treatment of different epilepsy syndromes, to all epileptologists in Canada. Adult and pediatric epileptologists were identified from the Canadian League Against Epilepsy and the Canadian Congress of Neurological Sciences membership lists. Patient-scenarios were grouped into 13 categories according to epilepsy syndrome (absence epilepsy, juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, undetermined idiopathic generalized epilepsy, symptomatic or cryptogenic focal epilepsy, and unclassified epilepsy), and to patient's gender and age group. Physicians were asked to rate treatment options based on a 5-point scale (?1?= most appropriate to ?5?= harmful). The responses were anonymously collected. Results: Forty-one out of 64 Canadian epileptologists returned the survey. The results suggest a consensus among Canadian epileptologists: Valproate is the drug of choice for generalized epilepsies in the adult (p < 0.05) and elderly population, while lamotrigine is the choice in women of childbearing age (p < 0.05). For the treatment of the focal epilepsies, carbamazepine is the choice (p < 0.05) for all ages and groups. In undetermined epilepsy, carbamazepine and valproate are the choice for adults; carbamazepine, clobazam, and lamotrigine for the elderly; and lamotrigine and carbamazepine for women of childbearing age. Conclusions: The choices of antiepileptic drugs among Canadian epileptologists is similar, with some minor exceptions, with the choices of their American and French counterparts. 1 E. Andermann, 1 F. Andermann, 2 P. Meyvisch, and 2 F. Tonner ( 1 Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, McGill University, Quebec, Canada ; and 2 Pharma Sector, UCB SA, Braine-l?Alleud, Belgium ) Rationale: To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of levetiracetam (LEV) add-on therapy in patients with refractory idiopathic generalised epilepsy (IGE) experiencing myoclonic seizures (MCS) or primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS). Methods: 2 multicentre, placebo (PBO)-controlled, double-blind studies were conducted in IGE patients with MCS (Study N166) or PGTCS (Study N01057). N166 recruited patients, age 12?65 years, experiencing ≥8 days with ≥1 MCS during 8 weeks baseline, and receiving 1 standard antiepileptic drug (AED). N01057 recruited patients, age 4?65 years, experiencing ≥3 PGTCS during 8 weeks baseline, and receiving 1?2 AEDs. LEV was uptitrated over 4 weeks to a target dose of 3000 mg/day (60 mg/kg/day for paediatric patients), and evaluated over 12 (N166) or 20 (N01057) weeks. Efficacy was assessed over the entire treatment period [titration+evaluation]), as responder rate (≥50% reduction in seizure days/week [MCS] or seizures/week [PGTCS]), and as seizure freedom rate defined as percentage of seizure-free study completers in the intention-to-treat population over the evaluation period. Tolerability was assessed by evaluating adverse events (AEs). Results: N166 randomised 122 patients (Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy [JME] n = 113, Juvenile Absence Epilepsy [JAE] n = 9); 60 LEV and 60 PBO patients provided evaluable data. N01057 randomised 164 patients (JME n = 54, Epilepsy with Grand Mal Seizures on Awakening n = 49, JAE n = 19, Childhood Absence Epilepsy n = 7, other IGE n = 28, unknown syndromes n = 7; 79 LEV and 84 PBO patients provided evaluable data. In N166, responder rates (LEV vs PBO) were 58.3%vs 23.3% (p < 0.001) for MCS and 56.7%vs 21.7% (p < 0.001) for all seizures; seizure freedom rates were 16.7%vs 3.3% (p = 0.029) for MCS and 13.3%vs 0% (p = 0.006) for all seizures. In N01057, responder rates (LEV vs PBO) were 72.2%vs 45.2% (p < = 0.001) for PGTCS, and 59.5%vs 29.8% for all seizure types (p < 0.001); seizure freedom rates were 24.1%vs 7.1% (p = 0.004) for PGTCS and 15.2%vs 6.0% (p = 0.072) for all seizures. In N166, 75.0% LEV vs 66.7% PBO patients reported ≥1 AE during treatment period; 2 LEV and 1 PBO patient withdrew due to AEs. In N01057, 72.2% LEV vs 67.9% PBO patients reported ≥1 AE during treatment period; 1 LEV and 4 PBO patients withdrew due to AEs. Conclusions: These studies provide further evidence that LEV is effective and well tolerated in patients with refractory IGE, significantly reducing the frequency of both MCS and PGTCS and substantially increasing the seizure freedom rates in patients with each of these seizure types. (Supported by Funds from UCB.) 1 Hiba Arif, 2 Richard Buchsbaum, 1 Jennifer Cabot, 1 Jason Sulkowski, 1 Stanley R. Resor Jr., 1 Steven Karceski, 1 Carl W. Bazil, and 1 Lawrence J. Hirsch ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: Rash is a well known side effect of antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy. Some patients develop rash from multiple AEDs. Very few studies have attempted to determine the frequency of cross-sensitivity of rashes among all AEDs. Rates of rash cross-sensitivity with AED use In those with: % (total N) Rash rate [% (total N)] CBZ LTG OXC PB PHT ZNS CBZ Rash 13 (745) 20 (50) 33 (15) 27 (30) 58 (59) ?9 (11) CBZ No Rash 87 (745) ?8 (366) ?3 (76) ?3 (120) 18 (268) ?4 (174) LTG Rash 10 (864) 26 (38) 20 (15) ?8 (13) 39 (36) 12 (17) LTG No Rash 90 (864) 11 (378) ?5 (103) ?7 (124) 16 (365) ?8 (96) OXC Rash ?8 (201) 71 (7) 38 (8) ?0 (4) 33 (9) ?0 (1) OXC No Rash 92 (201) 12 (84) 11 (110) ?8 (35) 15 (74) 14 (43) PB Rash ?9 (276) 67 (12) 11 (9) ?0 (3) 53 (15) ?0 (5) PB No Rash 91 (276) 16 (138) ?9 (128) 11 (36) 21 (156) 13 (24) PHT Rash 18 (716) 42 (81) 19 (74) 21 (14) 19 (41) 21 (14) PHT No Rash 82 (716) 10 (246) ?7 (327) ?9 (69) ?5 (130) 10 (51) ZNS Rash ?8 (174) 25 (4) ?0 (10) ?0 (6) ?0 (3) 37 (8) ZNS No Rash 92 (174) 12 (81) ?1 (101) ?3 (38) 19 (26) 19 (57) Any Other AED Rash 36 (48/134) 20 (26/131) 19 (43) 15 (73) 43 (114) 14 (42) No Other AED Rash ?1 (1/115) ?8 (57/733) ?4 (158) ?7 (203) 14 (602) ?6 (132) Bolded%: p < 0.001 compared to those without rash to an AED Our objective was to determine the rates of cross-sensitivity of rash occurring with use of older and newer AEDs in patients with epilepsy. Methods: As part of the Columbia AED Database, we reviewed the incidence of AED-related rash for 1875 patients with epilepsy ≥12 years old, including a history of AED rash at any age. We compared the rate of rash when these patients were taking any of the 15 most commonly used AEDs at our center: carbamazepine (CBZ), clobazam (CLB), felbamate (FBM), gabapentin (GBP), levetiracetam (LEV), lamotrigine (LTG), oxcarbazepine (OXC), phenobarbital (PB), phenytoin (PHT), primidone (PRM), tiagabine (TGB), topiramate (TPM), vigabatrin (VGB), valproic acid (VPA)  2) any other AED;  2.8% (72/1875) of patients had a rash from ≥2 AEDs. Rates of rash  and 2 Neuroscience, Research and Development, Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL ) Rationale: Drug intoxication after inadvertent substitution of an immediate-release drug with an extended-release formulation has been documented (Am J Health-Syst Pharm 2001;58:402?5). Similarly, it has been speculated that clinical consequences could occur from a lack of recogntion of the differential biopharmaceutic characteristics of the divalproex sodium extended-release formulation (ER) versus the conventional delayed-release, enteric-coated formulation (EC) (Ann Pharmacotherapy 2006; 40:619?25). ER is approved for once daily administration, whereas EC is approved for multiple-daily dosing. We analyzed prospectively collected cases of adverse effects and breakthrough sizures in patients with epilepsy resulting from the unintentional substitution of EC for multiple-daily dosing due to medication dispensing errors. Methods: EC vs. ER dispensing errors were tabulated in epilepsy clinics between July 2001 and May 2006. Patients and caregivers were interviewed to determine pharmacy location, circumstances of error, and any seizures or adverse effects that followed the errors. Results: Substitution of clinican prescribed once-daily ER with EC occurred in six cases, due to lack of availability of ER at the local pharmacy at the time of prescription submission, and in five cases due to mistakes on refills of a previous correctly filled prescription. Two experienced increased tremor of mild but noticeable severity. Three patients had breakthrough seizures. Side effects and seizures abated after discovery of the errors and the correct ER dosing regimens were resumed. One patient was given both ER and EC in one refill, being told by the pharmacy that the two formulations only differed in color. Three other cases documented incorrectly the formulation dispensed, which created confusion for the prescriber, but did not result in problems for the patient. Conclusions: Availability of divalproex-ER and EC in identical dose strengths has created some confusion among healthcare providers and pharmacies, resulting in patient complications. Prescriptions for EC vs ER require vigilance by all, including the patients receiving the prescriptions. Inadvertent substitution of EC for ER has been documented to have deleterious clinical impact. Additional education of pharmacists may be needed to minimize dispensing errors of this type. (Supported by Abbott Laboratories.) 1 Michael J. Boyd, 1 Robert T. Standring, 1 Patrick L. Alore, 1 Terrence Metz, 2 Michael J. Schneck, and 2 Micheal P. Macken ( 1 Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL ; and 2 Neurology, Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL ) Rationale: Levetiracetam, although currently approved only as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of epilepsy, may be efficacious as a monotherapy across a broad range of seizure disorders. Methods: We retrospectively identified eighty-five patients (ages 8 months-98 years; mean 39 years; 51 male, 34 female) with various seizure disorders having been treated with levetiracetam (LEV) monotherapy. While the criteria for inclusion consisted of any length of mono- treatment (mean 7.2 months), changes in seizure frequency and seizure freedom were evaluated in three month intervals up to one year. Patients began LEV as either first line therapy (n = 38) or were converted to LEV from other AEDs (n = 47). Medical records were reviewed for seizure type (primary generalized vs. partial), etiology (categorized as tumor (n = 19), trauma (n = 5), stroke (n = 11), idiopathic epilepsy (n = 33) and other (n = 17)), previous number of AEDs, and changes in seizure control or subsequent seizure freedom. Data was evaluated in relation to efficacy across gender, age, seizure etiology, and first-line vs. conversion therapy. Results: Of the patients immediately available for follow-up, thirty-nine remained on LEV for at least 6 months; twenty-five (64%) became seizure free. Of those continuing to experience refractory seizures, eight (57%) exhibited marked improvement in seizure control, five patients showed no change and one patient demonstrated worse seizure control. Expanding the patient population to at least 3 months on LEV (n = 57), thirty-eight (67%) were seizure free, and of the breakthrough patients, nine patients (47%) experienced improvement in seizure control while eleven showed no change or reduced control. The pediatric population (<18 years) was found to consist of twenty-six patients (ages 8 months-16 years; mean 6.1 years), of which fifteen were available for follow-up after 6 months on LEV. Eight patients (53%%) became seizure free while two showed >50% reduction in seizures and five (33%) showed no change in control. In comparison across age, this was less than the 63% seizure freedom noted in the age range of 18?65, and 88% in age 65 and older. In a 6 month evaluation across sexes, 87% of males achieved seizure freedom or marked improvement in control, compared to 81% females. We also observed dosing patterns (range: 20mg BID-1500mg BID, mode: 500mg BID) having direct proportionality to seizure frequency and severity, as well as age. It was noted that although a loading dose of 750mg is recommended, in only seven instances was a higher initial dose used when prescribed below the recommended loading level. Conclusions: Our results indicate that Levetiracetam as a monotherapy can provide an effective and tolerable treatment for a range of seizure disorders. A prospective, double blind study is necessary to confirm our finding. (Supported by UCB Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Thomas Bramley, 1 Brian Meissner, 2 Dilesh Doshi, and 2 Marcia Rupnow ( 1 Outcomes Research, Applied Health Outcomes, Tampa, FL ; and 2 Scientific Affairs, Ortho-McNeil Janssen Scientific Affairs, LLC, Titusville, NJ ) Rationale: Older antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are associated with an increased potential for drug interactions when compared with newer AEDs (topiramate, lamotrigine, gabapentin, levetiracetam, etc.). However, the frequency with which patients are susceptible to drug-drug interactions in clinical practice is not known. This study compared the frequency of potential clinically relevant drug interactions for newer and older AEDs. Methods: In this retrospective, observational study, administrative claims obtained from a state Medicaid program were screened to identify records meeting the following criteria: 1) an AED prescription claim during the enrollment period (September 1, 2003 ? September 30, 2004), defined as the index prescription, for either a newer or older agent; 2) an International Classification of Disease, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification code for epilepsy; 3) continuous enrollment 12 months after the index prescription. The potential for drug-drug interactions was quantified by the percentage of episodes, regardless of their duration, in which AED exposure coincided with exposure to another non-AED known to have a clinically relevant interaction with the AED. [1] [1] Perucca E. Clinically relevant drug interactions with antiepileptic drugs. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2005;61(3):246?255. Results: A total of 756 patients met the inclusion criteria. The average patient age was 34 (SD ± 22) years; 53% (n = 400) were female. In this patient population, there were 1,444 exposures to AEDs; 34.9% (n = 504) were exposures to new AEDs, and 65.1% (n = 940) were exposures to old AEDs. Of the new AED exposures, 2.6% (n = 13) coincided with another medication known to have a clinically relevant drug interaction as compared with 55.8% (n = 525) of old AED exposures. [1] Perucca E. Clinically relevant drug interactions with antiepileptic drugs. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2005;61(3):246?255. Conclusions: This study is the first to document the extent of co-exposure of AEDs with other drugs known to cause drug interaction. Older AEDs are associated with a greater likelihood of a potential clinically relevant drug interaction than a newer AED in this state Medicaid population. Future research documenting the clinical outcomes of these interactions and analysis adjusting for exposure time of each AED is warranted. (Supported by Ortho-McNeil Janssen Scientific Affairs, LLC.) 1 John C. DeToledo, 2 Carol A. Westall, and 3 Stephen D. Collins ( 1 International Center for Epilepsy, University of Miami, Miami, FL ; 2 Department of Ophthalmology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada ; and 3 Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Deerfield, IL ) Rationale: Multiple reports have estimated the incidence, prevalence, risk factors, and functional outcomes associated with the vigabatrin-induced visual field defect (VFD). These studies have yielded a range of prevalence estimates. A recent large study of adults and children with complex partial seizures now helps better define incidence and prevalence and a better understanding of the functional impact of retinal injury. Methods: An open-label, multicenter, longitudinal study with blinded perimetric evaluations. Patients were stratified by age and by exposure to vigabatrin (Group 1: currently treated with vigabatrin at study inclusion; Group 2: previously treated with vigabatrin; Group 3: never treated with vigabatrin, but could initiate vigabatrin if visual fields were normal at baseline. Primary outcome was prevalence of bilateral concentric peripheral constriction (BCPC) via perimetry assessment (at least one static and one kinetic). Prevalence was defined as occurrence of BCPC at study inclusion and on first conclusive perimetry examination. Incidence of BCPC was defined as occurrence of BCPC after first dose of vigabatrin and observed on or after study enrollment. Results: At time of submission, a closed database was available on 432 of 563 patients enrolled. Study completion summer of 2006. Patients in Group 1 (48 children; 150 adults) had received vigabatrin for an average of 4 years. Group 2 patients (55 children; 158 adults) received vigabatrin for an average of 1.8 years (children) and 2.5 years (adults) prior to vigabatrin discontinuation. Prevalence rates of BCPC ranged from 6% to 10% in children and from 20% and 30% in adults. Incidence of BCPC was 31% and 44% of children and adults in Group 1, respectively, and 10% and 26% in Group 2. No patients in Group 3 developed BCPC, however only 7 patients received vigabatrin in this group. One subject in Group 3 had definitive findings of BCPC prior to vigabatrin administration. The earliest finding of a VGB-VFD was at 11 months. In general, onset was after 2 years of exposure, with the mean times in this study from first vigabatrin dose to BCPC amongst the six cohorts was from 5 to 7 years (at least one BCPC) and 5.5 to 8.5 years (confirmed BCPC). Blinded scoring of fields in subjects with BCPC showed lateral vision averaged 65 degrees and there was little change on average over approximately 2 years from first to last field examination. Conclusions: The VFD associated with vigabatrin therapy for CPS requires many months to years of treatment to appear, is not progressive, is usually asymptomatic, and can be effectively monitored. Because the onset of efficacy in clinical studies is usually within 12 weeks of initiation, and the earliest onset of the VFD was at 11 months, clinicians have the opportunity to assess efficacy before any substantial risk of field defect exists. (Supported by Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) 1 F. Andermann, 2 M.S. Duh, 3 A. Gosselin, 3 P. Lefebvre, and 3 P.E. Paradis ( 1 Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ; 2 Analysis Group, Inc., Boston, MA ; and 3 Groupe D?Analyse, Ltée, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Compulsory generic substitution may lead to adverse effects in epilepsy patients because of the consequences linked with a single seizure recurrence. This concern is magnified by the widespread use of narrow therapeutic index (NTI) drugs for epilepsy. The objectives of the study are (1) quantify the switch-back rates from generic to brand-name AEDs compared to other drugs, and (2) assess the clinical impact of switching from branded Lamictal? (BL) to generic lamotrigine (GL). Methods: We used a public payer database from Ontario, Canada, comprising pharmacy claims from 01/2002 to 03/2006. The Ontario Drug Benefit formulary adopted compulsory conversion to GL in 01/2003, and a steep hurdle was imposed that prevented patients from switching back to BL without documented medical necessity from their doctor. We first calculated the switch-back rates from generic to brand AEDs (Lamictal?, Frisium?, Depakene?) using a Kaplan-Meier approach, compared to other chronically used drugs (Zocor?, Prozac?). Secondly, two cohorts of lamotrigine patients were compared with respect to their clinical outcomes: (1) those switching back to BL after being converted to GL (switch-back group), and (2) those staying on GL after generic entry (generic group). A stratified analysis was conducted on BL patients receiving monotherapy vs polytherapy of AED. The clinical endpoints were proxy for seizure control and tolerability, and included dosages of BL, of GL and number of concomitant AEDs and non-AED use before and after generic entry. Results: 1452 BL patients (437 monotherapy, 1015 polytherapy) were converted to GL, of which 12.9% switched back to BL (11.7% monotherapy, 13.4% polytherapy). Switch-back rates of other AEDs were about 20% for Frisium? and Depakene?, both of which were significantly higher than Zocor? (1.5%) or Prozac? (2.9%). In the switch-back group, the average BL daily dose increased from 229.5 mg at baseline to 279.9 mg GL (p = 0.039) after the generic entry. In the generic group, a similar dose increase was observed from baseline to generic periods (BL 242.8 mg/day versus GL 266.1 mg/day, p < 0.0001). The average number of drug entities dispensed increased for non-AED co-dispensings after generic entry compared to baseline (switch-back group: +12.2%, p = 0.004; generic group: +7.4%, p = 0.03). Conclusions: Switch-back rates were considerably and significantly higher for Lamictal? and other AEDs than for other chronic disease drugs. Higher generic doses and utilization of other drugs were also found. The extent of switchback differences compared with non AEDs raises concerns. This may be due to loss of seizure control or refusal of epilepsy patients to substitute, despite high cost penalties. Studies to investigate the clinical reasons or resistance to generic switching are required. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline, RTP, NC, USA.) 1 Charles M. Epstein, 1 Lhys Girard-Siqueira, and 1 Joshua A. Ehrenberg ( 1 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Several commonly-used anticonvulsants, including levetiracetam (LEV), are known to have a half-life in the human bloodstream which is shorter than their typical dosing interval. Their sustained efficacy without intermittent toxicity is not fully understood. Pharmacodynamic changes in the brain are generally suspected to persist longer than blood levels, but the time course of neurological effects has never been measured comprehensively in humans. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to compare LEV blood levels, pharmacodynamic effects, and subjective estimates of toxicity. Methods: Subjects were normal, medication-free volunteers aged 19?52 who had no history of any renal or CNS disorder, including epileptic seizures in themselves or first-degree relatives. Following an oral load of LEV 3 gm, blood levels and sequential TMS measures were taken over 48 hours. Subjects used a two-dimensional visual-analog scale to estimate the time course of any side effects they observed. Measures of motor threshold (MT) and recruitment at 150% MT were made from the right first dorsal interosseous muscle while stimulating at a fixed point over the left motor cortex. Results: LEV blood levels peaked between 1 and 2 hours after oral administration. MT was maximally elevated beyond 3 hours, and recruitment maximally reduced beyond 5 hours. Changes in recruitment appeared to persist past 24 hours. Subjective toxicity was greatest within an hour of LEV administration, close to the time of peak blood levels. Despite the time lag between toxicity and TMS changes, toxicity estimates correlated significantly with the maximum increase in MT (p < .05, Spearman). Conclusions: There appears to be a substantial time lag between LEV blood levels and TMS measures of neuronal effects, and a similar temporal dissociation between subjective toxicity and maximum neurophysiological change. The time course of TMS changes may help to explain sustained clinical efficacy despite a short peripheral half-life. [figure 1] (Supported by UCB Pharma.) 1 Sara Eyal, 2 John G. Lamb, 2 Misty Smith-Yockman, 1 Liat Adar, 3 Boris Yagen, 4 Eitan Fibach, 5 Yoram Altschuler, 2 H. Steve White, and 1 Meir Bialer ( 1 Department of Pharmaceutics, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel ; 2 Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ; 3 Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Natural Products, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel ; 4 Department of Hematology, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel ; and 5 Department of Pharmacology, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel ) Rationale: We assessed whether the antiepileptic and chemotherapeutic drug valproic acid (VPA), an HDAC inhibitor, can induce P-gp expression in rat liver and brain. Additionally, we determined the effect of multi-day VPA administration on the anticonvulsant activity of the P-gp substrate phenytoin (PHT) and on its serum and brain concentrations. Methods: Mdr1a, mdr1b and mdr2 were determined by real-time polymerase-chain-reaction in rats treated for 2 or 7days with 1mmol/kg VPA, valpromide (VPD) or vehicle. The in vitro effect of VPA on P-gp was analyzed by flow cytometry. PHT anticonvulsant activity was determined in the maximal electroshock (MES) seizure test; results were compared to those obtained in a non-induced, vehicle-treated control group. PHT concentrations were assessed by high-performance-liquid-chromatography. Results: Treatment of rats for 2 or 7 days with VPA increased liver expression of mdr1a (2.2- and 4.1-fold, respectively), and mdr2 (2.8- and 3.5-fold, respectively), but not mdr1b. VPA did not significantly alter the expression of either mdr isoform in rat hippocampus or cortex. Similarly, administration of VPD to rats did not increase P-gp mRNA expression in rat liver or brain. The effect of a series of VPA derivatives on P-gp expression in SW620, KG1a and MDCK cells correlated with their potency as HDAC inhibitors. Treatment with either VPA or VPD did not alter PHT serum or brain concentrations or compromise its anticonvulsant efficacy against tonic-extension seizures in the MES Test. Conclusions: VPA induces the expression of P-gp mRNA in rat livers. However, P-gp induction by VPA is not sufficient, under the treatment conditions employed, to alter the plasma or brain concentrations and anticonvulsant activity of the P-gp substrate PHT. Based on the results obtained in the present study, it is not likely that chronic treatment with VPA or VPD will modify the anticonvulsant efficacy of PHT by increasing PgP expression. (Supported by unrestricted funds of Profs. Bialer and NINDS Contract NO1-NS-4?2359 (HS White).) 1 Agnes Kowalska, 1 Barbara Fuentes, and 1 Mary Andriola ( 1 Neurology, University Hospital at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, NY ) Rationale: There are approximately over 1 million women of childbearing age in America with epilepsy. More sophisticated diagnostic techniques, effective medications, and improved training of neurologists in epilepsy care have given patients with epilepsy better opportunity for full life and improved seizure control than ever before. There used to be misperception that women with epilepsy should not marry or at least not have children. Most women with epilepsy can and actually do have healthy, normal children. Methods: Retrospective chart review was conducted on 10 pregnant females, with history of epilepsy, who were continued on their antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy. Results: 2 patients were on Trileptal, 3 were on Phenobarbital, 3 were on Topomax, 1 patient was on combination of Lamictal and Tegretol, and 1 patient on combination of Trileptal and Topomax. Three out of ten females had an increase in their AED dosages, in the second trimester, secondary to increase in seizure frequency. One patient had a decrease in the dosage of her AED, and 6 patients had no change in their medication dosages. 5 out of 10 had no reported seizures during the nine months of their pregnancy. All patients had full term, normal vaginal deliveries. 1 out of 10 infants were discharged from the hospital within 48 hours without any complications. 1 infant was admitted to NICU secondary to chorioamnionitis. Conclusions: This limited review showed that there were no physical abnormalities in infants of mothers with epilepsy, on combination or single Antiepileptic Drugs. 1 Karen L. Gilbert, 1 Jenna L. Hott, 1 Barbara C. Jobst, 1 David W. Roberts, and 1 Vijay M. Thadani ( 1 Section of Neurology- Epilepsy Program, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH ) Rationale: The precise mechanism of action of levetiracetam (LEV) is unknown; however the mechanism of action distinguishes LEV from most other antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Anecdotal information suggests that LEV may be an especially useful adjunctive therapy in patients with Vagus Nerve Stimulation (VNS). This study examines the synergistic effects between LEV and VNS, by comparing seizure outcomes in patients with VNS on LEV against groups of patients with VNS on other medications. Methods: This was a retrospective review of outcome after VNS implantation using Engel's classification of seizure outcome following surgery. 132 patients were followed for at least one year following VNS implantation and data pertaining to age, gender, seizure type, AED use and seizure outcome were maintained in a database. Patients had VNS implanted for at least one year. Outcomes of 127 patients, both pediatric and adult patients with partial or generalized seizures were included. The following groups were assessed: patients on LEV and other drugs with VNS; patients on lamotrigine (LTG) and other drugs with VNS; patients on LEV and LTG with VNS; all other patients on other combinations of AEDs with VNS. Results: Out of 127 patients, 17 patients were on LEV and other drugs, 42 patients on LTG and other drugs, 11 patients on a combination of LEV and LTG, and 57 patients were on other combinations of AEDs. Outcomes in terms of Engel's classification were assessed. No group had a statistically significant better outcome (patients in Engel Class I, II, and III, vs. class IV) as compared to the other groups (p = 0.86). When patients on LEV were compared to all other groups (Engel Class I, II and III vs. class IV) there was no significant difference (p = 0.30). When LEV was added on after VNS implantation, it was no more beneficial than the addition of other drugs (p = 0.10). Conclusions: No statistically significant differences in seizure control were found when we compared LEV with other drugs in combination with VNS. Outcomes were about the same for all drug and VNS combinations. Further analysis using other outcome measures will be necessary to demonstrate difference between drugs. The possibility of a Type II error secondary to small numbers of patients in each group is recognized. 1 Varun Goel, 1 James C. Cloyd, 2 Edward E. Patterson, 1 James E. Fisher, 2 Aaron W. Dunn, and 1 Ilo E. Leppik ( 1 Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ; and 2 Veterinary Clinical Sciences, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN ) Rationale: Levetiracetam (LEV) is an antiepileptic drug used for treatment of partial seizures in humans. LEV is available as oral tablets and syrup and an intravenous (IV) formulation (100 mg/mL) is under review at the FDA. The purpose of this pilot study was to obtain data regarding the pharmacokinetics and absolute bioavailability of intramuscular (IM) LEV in dogs to lay the foundation for human studies. Methods: The experiments were done on 6 Hound dogs weighing approximately 22 kg. All dogs received 500 mg (5 mL of IV formulation of LEV) intramuscularly. Three dogs received 500 mg of IV LEV and 3 dogs received 250mg of IV LEV after which the IV catheter was withdrawn and an additional 250 mg was instilled around the vein as an approximation of extravasation. This procedure was done to evaluate the change in pharmacokinetics due to extravasation during IV dosing. A wash out period was allowed between intramuscular and intravenous dosing. Samples were collected starting at 15 min through 24 h at predetermined time intervals. Plasma LEV was detected by reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography. The pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated by non-compartmental analysis. Results: LEV was completely absorbed after intramuscular administration with a bioavailability of 100%. The median time to achieve maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) after IM dosing was 30 min, and the observed Cmax was 6.13 ± 0.51 ?g/mL. After IV injection, LEV showed evidence of mono-exponential elimination with a half-life of 174 ± 19 min, a volume of distribution of 2.7 L/kg and a clearance of 258 ± 41 mL/min. Extravasation did not alter LEV pharmacokinetics following IV administration. Conclusions: LEV demonstrated rapid absorption and complete bioavailability in dogs after intramuscular administration. Extravastation around the IV site did not appear to alter LEV pharmacokinetics. These characteristics, in combination with evidence of safety and tolerability, suggest that LEV should be evaluated for Intramuscular administration in humans. (Supported by UCB Pharma.) 1 Marcia L. Buck, 2 Matthew J. Gurka, and 3 Howard P. Goodkin ( 1 Pharmacy and Pediatrics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; 2 Public Health Sciences, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; and 3 Neurology and Pediatrics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: With the current trend toward accelerated approval of drugs in the US, postmarketing reporting of adverse reactions has become an essential tool in establishing the safety profile of new drugs. Between 1993 to 2000, eight new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) were approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). While premarketing clinical trials suggested a relatively mild adverse effect profile for most of these new drugs, limited information was available at the time of their approval to accurately define their risks. To examine the significance of postmarketing adverse reaction reporting for the new AEDs, we reviewed safety labeling modifications made since their release. Methods: Safety labeling modifications made for the new AEDs from 1993 through December 2005 were identified using prescribing information and a search of the FDA MedWatch database. Results: All the drugs underwent safety labeling changes during this period. In total, there were 38 safety labeling modifications with the median time to the first change being 2 years after introduction (range: 13 months to 12 years). The most common modification in safety labeling (n = 14) involved the adverse reaction section of the prescribing information. Three of the 38 changes involved the addition of a black box warning (2 for felbamate and 1 for lamotrigine). All occurred within 3 years after the introduction to the market place. The remaining labeling modifications consisted of changes in the warnings (n = 10), precautions (n = 10), and clinical pharmacology (n = 1) sections. Although the majority of labeling modifications came within the first 6 years after approval, mean cumulative function (MCF) analysis revealed no identifiable point at which additional changes were unlikely to be made. Conclusions: Over the past 13 years, a significant number of modifications have been made in the safety labeling of the new AEDs, ranging from black box warnings to the addition of new data in the adverse reactions tables. Recurrent data analysis failed to reveal a point at which additional safety information appeared unlikely, suggesting that the adverse effect profiles of the new AEDs may not yet be complete. (Supported by NIH.) 1,2 Keiko Hara, and 1 Minoru Hara ( 1 Neuropsychiatry, Hara Clinic, Yokohama, Japan ; and 2 Neuropsychiatry, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Musashi Hospital, Tokyo, Japan ) Rationale: It is still controversial how to reduce or discontinue antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) without a risk of relapses in patients who have no seizure for years. We present the long-term prognosis of epilepsy patients who have had relapses while dose reduction of AEDs and evaluate their subsequent long-term outcome. Methods: 18 patients (10 males, 8 females) who had relapse while they had AED dose reduction were collected. We followed them for 12 ? 27 years (mean; 18 years) after relapses. Their age ranged between 26 and 59-year-old (mean; 47-year-old), seizure onsets ranged between 10 months and 20 years. Idiopathic generalized epilepsy was diagnosed in 5 patients, symptomatic generalized epilepsy in 1 patient, and localization-related epilepsy in 12 patients. No patient had surgical treatment. Their seizure free period ranged between 21 months and 9 years prior to dose reduction (mean; 5.1 years). We compared the number and dose of AEDs before dose reduction and at present, also examined the clinical course during the follow-up period. Results: The duration between change in AEDs dose and the relapse was < /= 2 month in 7 patients, 3 ? 12 months in 4 patients, 13 ? 24 months in 5 patients, and 48 months < in 2 patients. The last two patients relapsed after they delivered, and they had fatigues, sleep deprivations, and change in life styles. On follow up, patients were taking 1?3 types of AEDs (mean 1.33) compare to 1?4 types of AEDs (mean 2.16) prior to dose reduction. 13 (72.2%) of 18 patients were still reduced AEDs compared to what they had taken prior to dose reduction. Three patients had same AEDs. Two patients were taking greater doses of AEDs. In all patients, AEDs were increased after relapses. After that, 10 (56%) of 18 patients had no subsequent seizures. 5 (28%) of 18 patients had1?3 seizures after relapses, but were seizure free for more than 9 years since then. Of the last three patients, two patients had yearly partial seizures. They reduced their medication from 2?3 kinds of AEDs to one AED, and we did not further change AED because of their requests. The remaining one patient had two seizures in 16 years due to non-compliance. Conclusions: The results suggest the AEDs necessary to prevent relapses can alter during long-term follow up in some patients. Lower dose of AEDs become adequate to control seizures compared to the earlier regimen. Thus, AEDs dose reduction should be considered for patients who have no seizure for years. However, the final decision should be decided based on the their clinical and social-cultural profile. Our data also suggest that reduction of AEDs has a potential of relapses for the patients with no seizure for long period, however the seizure outcomes and dosage of AEDs were still favorable for long term follow-up, dose reduction did not make their prognosis worse. Further investigations in a larger population and using EEG could be valuable for clinical practice. 1 Dmytro Isaev, 1 Olena Isaeva, 2 Rustem Khazipov, and 1 Gregory L. Holmes ( 1 Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Lebanon, NH ; and 2 INMED, INSERM-U29, Marseille, France ) Rationale: Neuronal surface charge is a key factor determining neuronal excitability. Reduction of the negative surface charge by increasing the level of divalent cations or proton strongly shifts the activation thresholds towards more positive values. However, the physiological mechanisms regulating neuronal surface charge and associated excitability remain largely unknown. Here we studied effect of desialylation on high K/low Mg model of epilepsy. Methods: Patch-clamp recordings of voltage-gated sodium currents were made from hippocampal slices at P3?4 rats (n = 7). Extracellular recordings of the effect of neuraminidase (NA) treatment on the probability of evoking seizures were made from CA3 pyramidal cell layer in slices from P8?21 rats using metal electrodes of 50 ?m diameter. For in vivo experiments the application cannula with recording electrode was positioned into the CA3 pyramidal cell. 30?l of NA-contained ACSF or NA blocker-contained ASCF were applied to the CA3 rat hippocampus, and the animal remained under anesthesia for 2 hours. Application of 10mM [K+]o/low [Mg2+]o (high K) ACSF was made by repetitive injection of 5 ?l-volumes. Results: After two hours of slice incubation with NA peak of current-voltage relationship of INa recorded from CA3 neurons shifted toward positive potential (?9mV). Application of high K+ ACSF induced bursting discharges and then recurrent tonic-like activity in 87% and 38% and clonic-like activity in 100% and 77% of control and NA-treated slices, respectively. Subsequently, we tested the effect of NA on the probability of evoking seizures in vivo in rats (postnatal days 8?21). 30 ?l NA was applied in to the CA3 region of rat hippocampus. After two hours of incubation with NA, repetitive injection of the high K+ ACSF into hippocampal CA3 pyramidal layer were applied. In the control group, high K+ inevitably induced ictal-like discharges in all animals tested (n = 10); only two of eight rats treated with NA displayed ictal-like activity. Seizures in NA-treated rats were significantly shorter than in the control group. After incubation with a NA blocker in vivo, high K+ ACSF was applied to the same region of the hippocampus. In contrast with a control group of rats where seizures were triggered on the 4th-6th application, seizures in NA blocker treated rats appeared on the 1st-30 ml rd application, and were significantly longer. Conclusions: Our results suggest that NA-mediated control of the level of sialic acids at the neuronal surface serves as a physiological mechanism to control the surface charge and neuronal and network excitability. [figure 1] 1 Pavel Klein, 1 Daniel Herr, 2 Phillip Pearl, 2 JoAnne Natale, 1 Zachary Levine, 1 Claude Nogay, 1 Michelle Mendoza, 1 Jeni Scarito, 1 Bi Tadzong, 2 Tammy Tsuchida, 2 John VandenAnker, 2 Steve Soldin, and 2 Robert McCarer ( 1 Neurology, MedStar Research Institute, Washington, DC ; and 2 Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Head injury is the cause of 5% of all epilepsy. Past attempts at preventing epilepsy by treatment with older antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) have been unsuccessful. Levetiracetam is a new generation AED with a favorable side-effect and pharmacokinetic profile that has potent anti-epileptogenic effects in animal models of epilepsy. It may thus be useful in preventing the development of epilepsy following traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, there has been no experience in administering levetiracetam rapidly to individuals with acute TBI. In this pilot study, we are evaluating the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and feasibility of acute and chronic administration of levetiracetam to individuals with head injury with a high risk for developing post-traumatic epilepsy. Here, we report preliminary findings of tolerability. Methods: Male and female subjects aged 6 years and older are enrolled in a fixed dose, open label study with a sample size goal of 60. All have head injury with a high risk for developing post-traumatic epilepsy (injury with intracranial hemorrhage, penetrating wound injury, depressed skull fracture or early post-traumatic seizure). Subjects receive levetiracetam 55 mg/kg/day by mouth or via orogastric tube if unable to swallow. Treatment starts within 8 hours of head injury at full dose and continues for 30 days, with one additional month of post-treatment follow up. In addition, individuals receive phenytoin for one week following head injury as standard clinical care. Results: 30 subjects (24 adult, 6 children) have been enrolled to-date. 18/30 (60%) subjects (14/24 adult, 4/6 pediatric) have completed the 30 day treatment phase of the study. 3 subjects (1 adult, 2 pediatric) are currently in active treatment follow up. 3 subjects (all adults) have died, all of medication unrelated causes. There have been no medication-related serious adverse events. 6 subjects (all adults) have discontinued treatment early: 2 because of medication- related toxicity (somnolence, n = 1; and combined fatigue, somnolence, irritability, emotional lability, headaches, n = 1) and 4 for medication-unrelated reasons. Thus, excluding death and subjects still in active follow up, 18/24 (75%) subjects completed treatment as expected. Only 2/24 (8%) of subjects discontinued medication because of poor tolerability. An update of this data and of interim compliance and adverse event data will be presented. Conclusions: Acute and chronic treatment with high dose (55 mg/kg/day) levetiracetam has been well tolerated in 18 subjects with acute head injury with high risk for developing post-traumatic epilepsy. (Supported by NIH grant 1 R01 NS45656?01A1.) 1 Günter K. Krämer, 2 Bernhard J. Steinhoff, 3 Martha Feucht, 4 Margarethe Pfäfflin, and 4 Theodor May ( 1 Medical Director, Swiss Epilepsy Center, Zürich, Switzerland ; 2 Klinik Für Erwachsene, Epilepsiezentrum Kork, Germany ; 3 Klinik Für Neuropychiatrie Des Kindes-Und Jugendalters, Universitätsklinikum, Wien, Austria ; and 4 Biochemisches Labor, Gesellschaft Für Epilepsieforschung E.V., Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: The economic benefit of generic drugs in several health problems has to be questioned in chronic diseases with the need for a stable medication. In people with successfully treated epilepsy even a single seizure recurrence may have devastating consequences. We addressed the experience of physicians in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland with generic preparations of antiepileptic drugs (G-AEDs). Methods: Two internet-based questionnaire studies among members of the German, Austrian, and Swiss sections of the ILAE as well as members of the German Society for Neurology were performed. In the first study about 2.800 E-mails were sent together with an accompanying letter on December 1, 2005. Some of the 14 questions had already been used for a corresponding survey in the US (Wilner AN. Therapeutic equivalency of generic antiepileptic drugs: results of a survey. Epilepsy Behav 2004;5:995?998). We offered a link to a specially designed website for an easy online response. In the second study another web-based questionnaire asking for more details will be sent especially to those responders of the first study who had reported problems with G-AEDs in June 2006. Results: We received 602 responses to the first questionnaire. About 80% of the physicians had experiences with G-AEDs. About half of them reported problems such as ? in decreasing order ? additional telephone contacts or visits, hospital admissions, calls for emergency doctors or visits of emergency rooms, disturbances of the physician-patient relationship, sick certificates, or injuries. In about half of the physicians these experiences had led to changes in their prescription behavior, especially restrictions for substitution. In addition, increased patient counseling and blood level determinations of AEDs were mentioned. The current criteria for approval of G-AEDs were considered as inappropriate by about 50%, and 90% considered it unacceptable that pharmacists have the possibility of substitution without consultation. The results of the second questionnaire will be available at the end of July. Conclusions: In line with the results of earlier reports from the US, Canada or other countries our studies underline the potential problems with the use of G-AEDs and justify recommendations to avoid switching different preparations (form branded preparations to generics as well as between generics or from generics to branded preparations) in successfully treated patients. 1 Robert F. Kwarta Jr., 2 Joseph F. Hulihan, 1 Juergen Schmider, and 1 Jeffrey S. Nye ( 1 Pharmaceutical Research  and 2 Ortho-McNeil Neurologics, Raritan, NJ ) Rationale: The estimated risk of major structural malformations in infants born to women with epilepsy ranges from 2?25% but is generally reported as twice that of the general population (6?10% vs 2?5%). In utero exposure to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) has been implicated as a factor in this increased risk. Independent pregnancy registries are collecting data on exposure to AEDs, including topiramate (TPM). We report on congenital abnormalities/malformations in newborns exposed in utero to TPM for pregnancies that were prospectively reported to J and 2 School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Epilepsy is common in the elderly, and previous studies have shown that upon admission 7.7% are receiving an antiepileptic drug (AED) and 3.3% have an AED added after admission1. This study was done to evaluate the patterns of AED use over a 3-year period in a large nursing home organization. Methods: Computerized records containing physician's daily medication dosing orders and diagnoses were available for a total of 113,047 unique admissions age 65+ years to Beverly Nursing Homes across the USA January 2000 through December 2002. AED information through the 3rd day of admission was analyzed to avoid errors of omission during the first 48 hours. Results: Overall, 6,200 persons (5.48% of all admissions) had an epilepsy/seizure (EPI/SZ) code. There were 73,853 female admissions of which 3,666 (4.96%) had an EPI/SZ code. There were fewer males admitted (39,193) but 6.47% had an EPI/SZ code (p < 0.0001). A racial disparity was also noted with Blacks, Hispanics and American Indian/Native Alaskans having a higher prevalence of EPI/SZ code than whites and Asians (p < 0.001). 28.5% with an EPI/SZ code were not receiving an AED. The ?old-old? with an EPI/SZ code (85 years+) had lower AED use than the ?young old? (65?74) (p < 0.005). Among those with an EPI/SZ code and some AED, use of phenytoin was 66.7%, valproate was 15.3%, Phenobarbital was 9.5%, carbamazepine was 9.7%, gabapentin was 10.3%, and all other new was 4.6% (total > 100% due to polytherapy). Conclusions: The prevalence of AED use at time of admission to a nursing home is much greater than the 1.5% prevalence in community dwelling elderly, suggesting that a marked increase in the incidence of epilepsy occurs prior to admission. There are significant gender and race differences, with males, Blacks, Hispanics and American Indian/Native Alaskan having higher rates of epilepsy. Phenytoin remains by far the most commonly prescribed AED in this population. However, how the assignment of a EPI/SZ code is made cannot be discerned from this database and the high rate of untreated is problematic. Studies conducted in nursing homes are needed to ascertain the appropriateness of the EPI/SZ coding. (Supported by NIH-NINDS P50 NS16308 1Garrard J, etal. Antiepileptic drug use in nursing home admissions. Annals of Neurology 2003:54:75?85.) 1 Ken G. Makus, and 1 John McCormick ( 1 Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada; and McKesson Phase 4 Solutions, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Switching patients from older branded antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) to generic versions can increase the risk of breakthrough seizures and side-effects.1 Less is known about the consequences of substituting newer AEDs for generic compounds.1 Given the unique challenges in epilepsy treatment and the common concomitant use of narrow therapeutic index epilepsy medications generic substitution for brand-name AEDs may sacrifice efficacy, tolerability, and safety.2 Though generic drugs are considered bioequivalent to brand names, clinically relevant differences in drug absorption and availability can occur and produce loss of seizure control or toxicity.2 In the current investigation, outcomes associated with substituting one of the first newer AED to become generically available in Canada were assessed for signals warranting further investigation. Methods: The impact of generic lamotrigine in epilepsy patients was assessed using reports of lamotrigine-linked adverse reactions filed to Health Canada's Adverse Drug Reaction Monitoring Program (CADRMP), a survey of pharmacists, and a physician chart audit. It was hypothesized that utilization of generic lamotrigine may be associated with a change in lamotrigine-associated adverse reactions. To test this, lamotrigine-related adverse reactions reported to the CADRMP over identical periods before (baseline period) and after (study period) generic lamotrigine became available were compared. Results: Reports of lamotrigine-associated adverse reactions to CADRMP rose from 30 during the baseline period to 56 in the study period. Over the latter period 29 of the 56 reports (52%) were linked to generic lamotrigine (versus 23% over the baseline period), 14 of which involved lack of seizure control. Loss of seizure control was the primary reason patients were switched back to Lamictal? in the pharmacists' survey (11/14 patients) and the physicians chart audit (8/9 patients). Seizure control was regained for the majority of patients following a return to branded lamotrigine. Conclusions: These initial reports of loss of seizure control in some patients following brand-to-generic Lamotrigine switching, build upon existing similar experiences with older AEDs. The results of this study suggest that (i) seizure control can be compromised when switching from Lamictal? to generic lamotrigine, and (ii) lamotrigine-associated adverse reactions increased after generic lamotrigine was prescribed. These data stress the vital role physicians play in educating their patients as to the potential risks and benefits of AED generic substitution. Reference 1.?Crawford P, Hall WW, Chappell B, et al. Generic prescribing for epilepsy. Is it safe Seizure 1996;5:1?5. 2.?Guberman A, Corman C. Generic substitution for brand name antiepileptic drugs: a survey. Can J Neurol Sci 2000; 27 :37?43. (Supported by a grant from GlaxoSmithKline Inc.) 1 Cordula Mauerer, 1 Jan Ricken, 1 Angelika Huettenbrenner, and 1 Soheyl Noachtar ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Munich, Munich, Germany ) Rationale: This prospective study compared the effects of the new antiepileptic drug (AED) pregabalin (PRE) with the established AED carbamazepine (CBZ) on eye movement and posture control in twelve healthy volunteers who received single doses of 75 mg PRE and 400 mg slow release CBZ in a double-blind, cross-over, randomized trial. Methods: The drug effects on electrooculography and postural sway were evaluated for averaged plasma levels, for individual highest to lowest plasma levels and for individual highest to lowest effect. Results: CBZ and PRE both affected eye movements significantly. The strongest impact was seen on saccadic eye movements, with CBZ slowing the peak horizontal saccade by a maximum of 35.6% (PRE 28.5%). The peak vertical saccade was slowed by CBZ (17.6%) and PRE (27.3%). There was no statistically significant difference of the maximum effect between the two substances. CBZ and PRE both also affected body sway. Significant impairment was mostly seen in difficult conditions (reclined head, eyes closed on foam plate showed a 24% increase in body sway for CBZ, 24.7% increase for PRE). Only in selected conditions could a statistically significant difference be seen between the two AEDs. Conclusions: In summary, PRE and CBZ impair eye movement and posture control ? as measured by objective electrophysiological methods ? similarly. 1 Vladimir Nekrassov, and 1 Maria Sitges ( 1 Basic and Applied Research Division, National Rehabilitation Institute, SSA, Mexico; and Department of Cellular Biology and Physiology, Biomedical Research Institute, UNAM, Mexico ) Rationale: Several studies carried out in epileptic patients treated with common AEDs suggest that the drugs could cause BAEPs alterations. Although, only in a couple of case report studies hearing deficits have been directly linked to the antiepileptic medication. BAEPs are far field-evoked potentials that consist of several waves that occur within 10 ms post-stimulus. Determination of BAEPs threshold is an objective measure of the hearing sensitivity. In the guinea pig, changes in the amplitude or the latency of P1, the first wave of BAEPs, reflects cochlear nerve alterations, whereas changes in the parameters of P3 and P4, express alterations in the activity of the medial and the lateral superior olivary nuclei of the brainstem, respectively. Previously we have shown that the BAEPs alterations and the hearing decline induced by amikacin and by the convulsing agents, pentylenetetrazole and 4-aminopyridine in the guinea pig in vivo are prevented by VPC (ethyl apovincamine-22-oate), a nootropic drug with anticonvulsant capabilities. Since the few studies directed to investigate the effects of CBZ, PHT and VPA on BAEP parameters in animals, have only tested their acute effects at extremely high doses, their chronic effects at relevant doses on BAEP parameters and threshold were investigated here in the guinea pig in vivo, and compared with the effects of VPC in parallel. Methods: The latency and amplitude of each BAEP wave elicited by a stimulus of high intensity (100 dB) and the auditory thresholds at two tone frequencies (8 and 4 kHz) before the start of treatment (control recordings), 2 hours after the start of treatment (i.e. first injection of 20 mg/kg CBZ, 6 mg/kg PHT, 30 mg/kg VPA or 2 mg/kg VPC), and 28 days after a daily injection of the above drugs at the indicated doses, were measured following the methods described previously (Epilepsy Res. 2004; 60: 63?71; Clin. Neurophysiol. 2004; 115: 2711?17). Results: P1 and P2 parameters are unchanged by the drugs tested either after the start of treatment or following 28 days of injection. Also, P3 and P4 are unchanged after the start of treatment. However, marked changes are observed after the long term (28 days) treatments; CBZ and PHT increase and VPC reduces P3 and P4 latencies, PHT reduces P3 amplitude, and CBZ and PHT reduce P4 amplitude. Following the 28 days of CBZ, PHT or VPA injection the BAEP thresholds increase, whereas they decrease following the 28 days of VPC injection. Conclusions: The long term treatment with the most commonly used AEDs at therapeutic relevant doses could reduce the hearing sensitivity through physiological changes in specific nuclei of the superior olivary complex. The long term treatment with VPC, in contrast, ameliorates audition. (Supported by: This work was financially supported by Psicofarma S.A. de C.V. and by project P-48695 from SEP-CONACYT.) 1 Dakshesh K. Patel, 1 Mary R. Andriola, and 1 Ravindra K. Bhachawat ( 1 Department of Neurology, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, NY ) Rationale: Levetiracetam is an anti-convulsant approved in 1999 for use as an adjunctive therapy for patients with partial onset seizures in adults. There is significant use of it in patients with generalized epilepsy. The objective of this study was to ascertain the effectiveness of levetiracetam as adjunctive therapy to normalize an EEG in patients who have had a significant decrease in seizure frequency. Methods: A list of patients, who have been on levetiracetam, was generated from past dictations, yielding 105 patients. The dictations of these patients were reviewed to determine the patients diagnosed with primary generalized epilepsy. There were twenty seven patients (n = 27) with ages in the range of 3 years to 55 years that met the criteria. An extensive chart review was conducted to determine whether patient had clinical seizure control and the effect of levetiracetam on the patients EEG. The seizure resolution was tabulated and charted to compare with normalizing of EEG. Results: Of the 27 patients, 11 had resolution (41%) in clinical seizures, 8 had significant reduction (30%) in seizure frequency, 6 patients who failed (22%), and 2 patients were not able to tolerate (7%) the medicine. Of the 11 patients who had resultion, 7 had normalization (64%) of EEG and 2 had an unchanged (18%) EEG. There were 2 other patients with a pending EEG. Conclusions: Levetiracetam is effective as an adjunct therapy in patients with intractable primary generalized epilepsy. It not only improves seizures control, but in those patients with resolution of clinical seizures, there is normalization of EEG in a significant number of patients.?[figure 1] 1 Jacqueline French, 2 Grossman Patricia, 3 Barry Gidal, 4 Gwenael Le Teuff, and 5 Celine Bugli ( 1 School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ; 2 Global Outcomes Research, UCB, Atlanta, GA ; 3 School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI ; 4 Keyrus Biopharma, Levallois-Perret, France ; and 5 LACO, Diegem, Belgium ) Rationale: Over 2 million serious adverse drug reactions occur annually leading to 100,000 deaths in the United States. The objective of this study was to present the results of the investigation conducted in epileptic patients initiating either an enzyme-inducing AED (EIAED) or a non enzyme-inducing AED (NEIAED) and their risk of exposure to medications that may incur a potentially adverse PK interaction within a chronologically diverse group of epileptic patients. Specifically, this analysis sought to determine in a group of patients receiving only AED treatment, the risk that a concomitant, potentially interacting drug will be added to a patient medication regimen. Methods: A retrospective cohort study was conducted in epilepsy patients using a US claims Database (1/2001?12/2004). Patients were sub-grouped: EIAEDs (n = 9296) or NEIAEDs (n = 6573). A non-AED concomitant medication is defined as a concomitant medication if there exists an overlap with AED treatment of at least 5 days for antibiotics and antifungals and at least 30 days for other classes of drugs. Risk of first addition of a comedication was assessed using a Cox proportional hazard model adjusted to clinical and demographic characteristics including gender, state of the patient during the 6 months prior to AED initiation (based on Charlson comorbidity index, a measure of seriousness of comorbid diseases, Charlson et al., 1987), the type of AED treatment and the age group. Origin time is the date of the first prescription of AED. Results: 2873 patients are censored (18%).The mean time under AED is 395 days (SD = 371). The mean time to addition of first concomitant medication or to end of the follow-up for censored patient is 67 days (SD = 156). The hazard ratios for the time to first concomitant medication addition are presented in Table 1. Multivariable hazard ratio (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of first addition of concomitant medication Covariates HR [95% CI] Male (vs female) ??0.8 [0.772;0.828] 18?34 (vs 0?17) 1.112 [1.059;1.169] 35?54 (vs 0?17) 1.379 [1.317;1.443] 55?64 (vs 0?17) 1.636 [1.532;1.746] 65+ (vs 0?17) 1.749 [1.574;1.944] mild state (vs good) 1.434 [1.361;1.512] severe (vs good) 1.536 [1.450;1.629] NEIAED (vs EIAED) 1.126 [1.086;1.167] All p-values are < 0.001. Conclusions: The risk that a concomitant medication will be added at some time after AED is initiated is significantly higher for females, increases with age and the severity of the state of the patient. This implies that patients with certain characteristics should have their antiepileptic drugs selected to avoid the potential of future drug interactions. This might include avoiding enzyme inducing antiepileptic drugs. (Supported by UCB INC.) 1 Edward E. Patterson, 2 Ilo E. Leppik, 3 Timothy D. O?Brien, 4 Varun Goel, and 2 James C. Cloyd ( 1 Veterinary Clinical Sciences, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN ; 2 Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ; 3 Veterinary Population Medicine, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN ; and 4 College of Pharmacy, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Levetiracetam (LEV) is a water-soluble antiepileptic drug and an IV preparation that has received an approval letter from the FDA at the time of the submission of this abstract. However, an IM formulation was not considered during development. The purpose of this pilot study was to obtain data regarding the safety and tolerability of the IV formulation administered intramuscularly to dogs. Methods: Animal experimentation approval was obtained and six dogs weighing approximately 20 kg were purchased. The same IV solution, intended for clinical use, was obtained from UCB Pharma. It contains 100 mg/ml LEV in an aqueous solution with a neutral pH. A standard animal discomfort rating scale was used. Dogs were injected with 5ml (500 mg) of LEV in one longissimus muscle, and 5 ml of saline in the contralateral muscle. Two dogs received IM LEV and control saline on Monday, two on Wednesday and two on Friday. This provided up to five days for reaction to develop. All were sacrificed on Saturday and 4 blocks of tissue of approximately 2 cm3 were removed for standard histopathology. A standard four-point inflammation scale (0 = no inflammation, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, 4 = marked) was used as well as examination for tissue damage. Results: Tolerability: Three of the six dogs injected with LEV had slight head turning or a slight squirm; only one had slight vocalization, and 3 had no reaction. Three saline of six controls had slight head turning. Safety: The mean inflammation score for LEV was 0.28, and 0.62 for saline. One of the saline injected dogs had a score of 3 (moderate). Four dogs in each group had no inflammation. Conclusions: The IV preparation of LEV is well tolerated and safe when given as an IM injection to dogs. This suggests that the formulation may be useful in humans, but studies of safety and tolerability will need to be done. (Supported by UCB Pharma.) 1 Patricia E. Penovich, 1 Deanna L. Dickens, 1 Jason S. Doescher, 1 Michael D. Frost, 1 El-Hadi Mouderres, and 1 Frank J. Ritter ( 1 Minnesota Epilepsy Group, PA, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, PA, St. Paul, MN ) Rationale: Conventional use of AEDs in the treatment of epilepsy has utilized serum levels as an indicator of appropriate daily dosage. Pregabalin (PGB), a GABA analog which binds at the α2δ subunit of voltage gated calcium receptors, has a dose response correlation for seizure reduction in phase three human studies at the two doses studied. No serum level to dose correlation has been reported. We have evaluated the effect of daily and weight-based doses on serum levels in clinical use. Methods: Patients received PGB as adjunctive therapy for refractory partial seizures with or without secondary generalization. Doses were empirically chosen and increased for efficacy or until side effects were experienced. Serum levels were obtained at trough if possible. Serum determinations were sent to MedTox Laboratories (St Paul, MN) for determination by HPLC. Serum levels, age, weight, daily dose, mg/kg/day dose, creatinine, efficacy and reported adverse events were evaluated by retrospective chart review. Results: Thirty-two patients ages 4?78 (mean 33.6 ± 17.6, median 31) received PGB for two days to over seven years. Weights were 27.5 ? 188.5 kg (mean 68.3 ± 30.1, median 67). Total daily doses were 25 ? 1050 mg (mean 349 ± 212, median 300) resulting in 0.35?10.9 mg/kg/day (mean 5.1 ± 3.1, median 4.7). Serum levels were 0.99 ? 13.4 ?g/ml (mean 4.2 ± 3.1, median 4.0). There was a significant correlation p < .01 for the relationship of mg/kg/day to serum concentration. AEs reported in 11 (33%) were tiredness, weight gain, and temporary leg swelling at levels of 1?7 ?g/ml. Improved seizure control was reported in 56%; 1 was worse. Efficacy was seen in 7/18 at 2 ?g/ml or less and in 11/18 at 4?10 ?g/ml. Seven patients had 2 or more levels at different doses and showed linear increase in serum level. Conclusions: PGB is easily utilized as adjunctive therapy in clinical practice. Doses are well tolerated up to 1050 mg/day without serious AEs. Serum levels correlate linearly with increased dosing. 1 Ronald C. Reed, and 1 Sandeep Dutta ( 1 Neuroscience  QD DR doses from 1125- 4000mg vs QD ER (mg dose-proportional ER, all scenarios) chronically. [VPA]-time profiles were simulated, each scenario (n = 1000) using a 1-compartment population (20% inter-  QD DR ≥2000mg produced mean Cmax > 125 mg/L. Mean DR Cmin was ?50 mg/L (conventional lower VPA limit) at 2 doses, whereas mean ER Cmin was > 70 mg/L at all doses tested. Excursions well beyond the recommended range of 50?100 mg/L are predicted to commonly occur on QD DR, evidenced by 10th?90th percentile data (considering 80% of patients, DR Cmax is frequently > 100 mg/L  2 Medical Affairs, Shire Development Inc., Wayne, PA ; and 3 McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Antiepileptic drugs (AED) have been reported to increase the risk of congenital malformations (CM) in the offspring of mothers who use these drugs. Since there is a significant risk of seizures for the mother during pregnancy, it may be necessary for the mother to continue taking AEDs throughout her pregnancy. Methods: We performed a systematic literature review to identify all published registries and cohort studies of ≥ 1000 births from pregnant epileptic women that reported an incidence of a major congenital malformation. Results: The review included 6 studies (k) that met the inclusion criteria with a total of 16,095 births to epileptic mothers. Three studies reported the incidence of births with CM, three studies reported the incidence of CM as total events, and 4 studies reported the incidence of specific major congenital malformations. The incidence of births with CM was 5.2% (k = 3), and the incidence of CM (as events) was 4.5% (k = 3). The incidence of spina bifida was 0.2% (k = 3), cardiovascular CMs was 0.9% (k = 2), cleft lip or palate was 0.3% (k = 2), urinary malformations was 0.5% (k = 3), and club foot was 0.7% (k = 1). There were three studies that separately reported monotherapy, polytherapy, and/or non-treated epileptic pregnancies. The incidence of births with CM in women treated with only 1 AED was 6.2% (k = 2), for polytherapy it was 10.2% (k = 2), and for no AED treatment it was 2.8% (k = 1). The incidence of CM events was 3.9% (k = 2) for monotherapy, 6.3% (k = 2) for polytherapy, and 3.2% (k = 2) for no AED treatment. Conclusions: The results of this systematic literature review suggest that the incidence of congenital malformations in the offspring of epileptic mothers is approximately 4% to 5%. The risk of congenital malformations increases from no AED treatment (approximately 3%) to treatment with a single AED (from 4% to 6%), and is highest when the mothers are treated with multiple AEDs (6% to 10%). (Supported by Shire Development Inc.) 1 Jan M. Ricken, 1 Peter Axtner, 1 Katharina Schüler, and 1 Soheyl Noachtar ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Munich, Munich, Germany ) Rationale: This prospective study compared the effects of the new antiepileptic drugs (AED) oxcarbazepine (OXC) and gabapentin (GBP) on eye movements and posture control in twelve healthy volunteers who received single doses of 900 mg GBP and 600 mg OXC in a double-blind, cross-over, randomized trial. Methods: The drug effects on electrooculography and postural sway were evaluated for averaged plasma levels, for individual highest to lowest plasma levels and for individual highest to lowest effect. Results: OXC and GBP both affected eye movements significantly. The strongest impact was seen on vertical eye movements, with GBP slowing the peak vertical saccade by a maximum of 20.4% and OXC by 29.7%. There was no significant difference of the maximum effect between the two substances. GBP affected body sway significantly in most conditions. The maximum impairment was seen in the difficult conditions (reclined head, eyes closed on foam plated showed 25.0% increase in body sway, tandem stance with closed eyes 67.0%). OXC increased body sway in only very few conditions (reclined head, eyes closed on foam plate showed a 6.0% increase, tandem stance with closed eyes 9.4%), and showed significantly less impairment as compared to GBP (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Although OXC and GBP both may cause dizziness, the effects on eye movements and body sway were different. OXC seems to have less CNS side effects as measured by postural control and similar effects as measured by electrooculography at comparable doses. (Supported by Novartis.) 1 Miranda K. Roth, and 2 Nicholas P. Poolos ( 1 Phyisol  and 2 Neurol and Physiol  Ih; HCN) have been hypothesized to play a role in epileptogenesis due to recent evidence that they are downregulated by seizures, are upregulated by several antiepileptic drugs, and produce epilepsy when genetically deleted in an animal model. Little is known about possible intracellular modulators of h-channel function apart from the well-described role of cAMP. Previously we found that inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) downregulated Ih by causing a hyperpolarizing shift in voltage-dependent activation. We sought to characterize the role of p38 MAPK in the actions of a known upregulator of Ih, the anti-epileptic drug (AED) lamotrigine (LTG). Methods: We tested the effects of p38 MAPK activation using cell-attached and whole-cell recordings of Ih in pyramidal-like principal (PLP) neurons in the CA1 layer of the hippocampus in rat brain slices. PLPs contain a high somatic density of Ih with biophysical properties similar to Ih in CA1 pyramidal neuron dendrites. Drugs were applied through the pipette and for at least 45 min via bath application before recording. Results: Application of an activator of p38 MAPK and c-Jun NH2 terminal kinase (JNK), anisomycin (20 ?M), produced an ?11 mV depolarizing shift in Ih voltage-dependent activation (V1/2 in control =?89 ± 2.4 mV [mean ± SEM], n = 11; V1/2 in anisomycin =?78 ± 2.0 mV, n = 7, p < .001) while a specific inhibitor of JNK, SP600125 (10 ?M), caused no change in voltage-dependent activation (V1/2=?87 ± 3.6 mV, n = 4, p > .05). Thus, the effect of anisomycin is due to the activation of p38 MAPK. In whole cell experiments, pipette-applied activated p38α MAPK (5 ?g/ml) led to a decrease in input resistance (IR) 15 min after the start of recording (p38α=?36.7 ± 7.7%, n = 4; in control =?13.9 ± 3.7%, n = 6, p < .05). Perfusion of p38α MAPK decreased temporal summation (TS) elicited by a train of 20 Hz alpha-function current injections after 15 min pipette application (?23.6 ± 5.6%, n = 4; in control =?8.6 ± 3.1%, n = 6, p < .05). We then tested whether p38 MAPK is necessary for the action of LTG. A specific p38 MAPK inhibitor, SB203580 (SB, 10 ?M), produced an ?22mV hyperpolarizing shift in voltage-dependent activation (V1/2 in SB =?111 ± 3.6 mV, n = 6, p < .0001). When SB was applied with LTG (100 ?M), the depolarizing effect of LTG was blocked by the hyperpolarizing effect of SB (V1/2 in LTG =?83.6 ± 1.6 mV, n = 5; V1/2 in SB/LTG =?104.2 ± 5.6 mV, n = 5, p < .05). Conclusions: These results show that p38 MAPK plays an important role in the regulation of Ih. Activation of p38 MAPK activity produced a significant upregulation of Ih in hippocampal PLPs which decreased the excitability of PLPs by diminishing IR and TS. These results also suggest that p38 MAPK is necessary for LTG action on Ih. The effects of p38 MAPK on Ih imply that the p38 MAPK pathway is a promising target for novel AEDs. (Supported by NIH Grant NS050229, GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 A. James Rowan, 2 R. Eugene Ramsay, 3 Flavia Macias, and VA Cooperative Study #428 Study Group ( 1 Neurology, Bronx VA Medical Center and Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurology, VA Medical Center and University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami, FL ; 3 Neurology, VA Medical Center, Miami, FL ; and 4 Neurology, 18 VA Medical Centers Across the USA ) Rationale: VA Cooperative Study (VACS) #428 reported on treatment of 593 older individuals (average age 72, range 59?91) with newly diagnosed seizures who were assigned to one of three treatment groups: carbamazepine (CBZ), gabapentin (GBP) or lamotrigine (LTG ? Neurology 2005;64:1868?1873). The GBP and LTG groups demonstrated significantly better one year retention in study than CBZ (p = 0.0001), due primarily to superior tolerability. There was little difference among the groups with respect to seizure control. We now consider whether there were age-related differences in our population with respect to seizure control and AED tolerability. Methods: We divided our population into three groups: ages 60?69, 70?79 and 80+. For each group we determined seizure-free rates at three, six and 12 months. Likewise, we determined retention in study at 12 months for the three groups. Finally, we considered the incidence of one of the study's principal side effects, sedation, for each age group. Results: For the three age groups, the intent to treat (ITT) seizure free rate at 12 months showed a steady decline from the youngest to the oldest group for all three treatments. The only exception was an improvement for GBP in the 70?79 group followed by a decline for the 80+ group. Overall, LTG was superior to the other two treatments. Breaking down the data into three, six and 12 month observations, we found that seizure free rate for GBP did not decline until after six months for the 60?69 group, whereas it declined steadily for the two older groups. For LTG, decline was arrested after six months for the 80+ group. For CBZ the only steady decline was in the 80+ group. An important side effect, sedation, showed a steady increase in age-related incidence for the LTG and GBP groups. In particular, two-thirds (65.6%) of the GBP 80+ group reported sedation comapred with just over half that number (34.4%) for the 60?69 group. There was little change over the ages for CBZ. Conclusions: In elderly patients with newly diagnosed seizures, seizure control appears to decline with increasing age for all three treatments studied in VACS #428. Sedation shows an age-related increase for LTG and GBP, but little change for CBZ. The most profound increase in sedation occurred with GBP. Age considerations should play an important role in determining AED selection and usage in the elderly. Seizure free rates for three treatments, all ages 60?69 yrs 70?79 yrs 80+ yrs CBZ 27.6 21.4 17.1 GBP 20.3 27.8 17.1 LTG 32.9 27.1 20.7 (Supported by Department of Veterans Affairs.) 1 Nicola Specchio, 1 Antonio Gambardella, 1 Anna Teresa Giallonardo, 1 Roberto Michelucci, 1 Carlo Di Bonaventura, 1 Giovanni Boero, 1 Angela La Neve, and 1 Luigi M. Specchio ( 1 Department of Neurological Science, Centre of Epilepsy, Bari, Italy; Clinic of Neurology, Epilepsy Centre, University of Catanzaro; Clinic of Neurology, Epilepsy Centre, University La Sapienza, Roma, Italy; Clinic of Neurology, Ospedale Bellaria, Bologna, Italy; Clinic of Neurology, Epilepsy Centre, University La Sapienza, Roma, Italy; CINEDIV (Centro Interuniversitario Per Lo Studio dell?Epilessia E dei Disturbi Della Vigilanza), Universities of Foggia and Bari, Foggia, Italy; Department of Neurological Science, Centre of Epilepsy, Bari, Italy; and CINEDIV (Centro Interuniversitario Per Lo Studio dell?Epilessia E dei Disturbi Della Vigilanza), University of Foggia, Foggia, Italy ) Rationale: Patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) may be resistant or show adverse effects to valproate. Several reports and open label studies have pointed out the efficacy of levetiracetam in generalised epilepsy (Patsalos, 2004). Moreover, levetiracetam has been shown to be effective in preventing photoparoxismal response in subjects with photosensitive epilepsy (Kasteleijn-Nolst Trenité et al., 1996). Our previous open-label study suggested levetiracetam might be effective and well tolerated in resistant cases of JME or may become a reasonable alternative to valproate in newly diagnosed patients. We present a multicentre, prospective, long-term, open-label study evaluating the effects of levetiracetam on EEG epileptiform abormalities and on the photoparoxismal response in patients affected by JME. Methods: Ten patients with newly diagnosed and 38 resistant/intolerant to previous AEDs JME were enrolled. After a 8 week baseline period, levetiracetam was titrated in 2 weeks to 500 mg b.i.d. and then increased up to 3000 mg/day according to the patient's response. An EEG evalutation has been performed before starting the treatment and every 3 months. Efficacy parameters were: reduction or sopression of interictal epileptiform abnormalities and photoparoxismal response. Results: The overall mean dose of levetiracetam was 2208 mg/day. The mean study period was 19 (range 0.3?38) months. Four patients had a normal EEG before starting the treatment, 41 had diffuse/generalized spike-waves and 11 showed a severe phoparoxismal response. After drug administration 27 patients had a normal EEG, 20 showed diffuse/generalized spike-waves discharges which were judged to be less frequent and wide, and in 4 we had the persistence of phoparoxismal response. The mean monthly frequency of DWM and of GTC seizures in the entire group was significantly reduced after levetiracetam. Conclusions: This open-label study suggests levetiracetam may be effective in reduction of epileptiform abnormalities, it suppress the photoparoxismal responce and it is well tolerated in resistant cases of JME or may become a reasonable alternative to valproate in newly diagnosed patients. 1 Hermann Stefan, 1 Martina Wangemann, and 1 Bernhard Vens-Cappell ( 1 Epilepsy Center, Clinic of Neurology, University Hospital, Erlangen, Germany; Clinical Research, Desitin Arzneimittel GmbH, Hamburg, Germany; and Scope International AG, Hamburg, Germany ) Rationale: The aim of the study was to investigate the absorption characteristics of a new modified release dosage form of oxcarbazepine after once daily (OD) or twice daily (bid) application in comparison to an immediate release reference formulation during steady state conditions. Methods: Using an open three-period crossover design, 3 different treatments were examined after multiple dose administration of oxcarbazepine to 18 healthy male subjects. The test formulations administered were either oxcarbazepine modified release [OXC MR] 600 mg OD or 300 mg bid. The immediate release formulation of oxcarbazepine [OXC IR] 300 mg bid served as the reference formulation. The three treatments were administered during an up-titration phase of 6 days. Plasma concentration profiles were measured on day 7 during a 24-hour interval at different time points. A wash-out period of 14 days elapsed between the periods. Monohydroxycarbamazepine [MHD], the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine as well as the prodrug oxcarbazepine [OXC], were determined in EDTA plasma samples by a validated HPLC method with UV detection. Results: The results of the multiple dose study demonstrated the consistency of the absorption of the primary parameter MHD from the novel OXC MR formulation after OD or bid application. The time concentration profiles following bid administration of 300 mg OXC MR showed that the mean extent parameters for absorption of MHD are equivalent with the OXC IR reference preparation. Results for peak trough fluctuation [PTF] indicate that fluctuation is reduced in the case of the OXC MR formulation [PTF = 39% for OXC MR and 54% for OXC IR]. In addition, Cmin concentrations of MHD were 10% higher and Cmax concentrations were 6% lower after OXC MR bid compared to the respective results for OXC IR bid. Furthermore, confidence intervals for the extent of absorption [AUC] demonstrated equivalence between OXC MR 600 mg OD and OXC MR 300 mg bid [AUC: 87?96%] or OXC MR 600 mg OD and OXC IR 300 mg bid [AUC: 88%-97%]. The confidence intervals met the commonly accepted range for bioequivalence of 80?125%. Conclusions: The newly developed OXC MR formulation exhibit appropriate modified release characteristics with similar extent of exposure [AUC], reduced peak plasma concentrations [Cmax] and reduced PTF for the major active metabolite MHD compared to the IR formulation when applied twice daily. From Cmin-values observed in this study it may be concluded that effective concentrations should be maintained over the entire dosing interval at steady state. Moreover, the OXC MR formulation seems suitable also for once daily dosing in individual cases and therefore improves patient compliance. (Supported by Desitin Arzneimittel GmbH, Hamburg, Germany.) 1 Lise Sofie H. Nissen-Meyer, 2 Sigrid Svalheim, 2 Erik Taub?ll, 3 Tove Lekva, 1 Sjur Reppe, 4 Lene B. Solberg, 4 Gunhild Melhus, 4 Finn P. Reinholt, 2 Leif Gjerstad, and 3 Rune Jemtland ( 1 Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ; 2 Department of Neurology, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ; 3 Department of Medicine, Endocrine Section, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ; and 4 Institute of Pathology, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ) Rationale: A serious complication of long-term treatment with anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) is increased risk for fractures. Phenytoin (PHT) and valproate (VPA) are both known to influence bone health, whereas levetiracetam (LEV) belongs to a new class of drugs with no reported adverse effects on bone. Methods: Female Wistar rats were fed twice daily for 90 days through a gastric tube with either LEV 50 mg/kg (n = 10), 150 mg/kg (n = 12), VPA 300 mg/kg (n = 12), PHT 75 mg/kg (n = 9) or control solution (n = 12). We studied the effect of LEV, VPA and PHT on bone densitometric indices, biomechanical strength and bone turnover serum markers. Results: Mean serum drug concentration 4 hours after last dose was 122, 277, 431 and 74 mol/l in low-dose LEV, high-dose LEV, VPA and PHT treated animals, respectively. Whereas PHT and VPA reduced bone mineral density (BMD) and content (BMC) in one or more bone compartments, LEV did not. Only VPA increased bone turnover, whereas treatment with low-dose LEV caused significant reduction in levels of serum osteocalcin (a bone formation marker) relative to controls. Interestingly, low-dose LEV also caused reduced biomechanical strength of the femoral neck. Histomorphological analyses showed retention of cartilage remnants at the growth plate metaphysis in low-dose LEV-treated vs. control rats (n = 6, each group), suggesting reduced cartilage resorption secondary to impaired local bone mineralization. VPA and PHT promoted cellular differentiation and mineralization of primary rat calvarial osteoblasts in vitro, while LEV was without effect. Conclusions: Our data demonstrate differential effects of PHT, VPA and LEV on bone mass and strength, suggesting a different mechanism of action. Remarkably, the ability of low-dose LEV to cause decreased biomechanical strength of the femoral neck, without affecting BMD, suggests a primary effect of this drug on bone quality. This should warrant further studies in humans to rule out potential adverse effects of LEV on bone development and growth, especially in children and adolescents. 1 Mutaz Tabbaa, 2 Susan P. Kerls, 2 Anne E. Hammer, 2 Alain Vuong, and 2 John A. Messenheimer ( 1 Neurology, Bay Neurological Institute, Panama City, FL ; and 2 Neurosciences Medicine Development Center, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: To assess the efficacy and tolerability of lamotrigine (LAMICTAL, LTG) as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures in patients with a history of absence seizures. The effect of LTG on PGTC seizures has not been previously evaluated in a placebo-controlled trial. Therefore, a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled study was conducted to assess the efficacy and tolerability of adjunctive therapy with LTG in the treatment of PGTC seizures in patients ≥2 years of age. These results were presented previously. A sub-analysis of the data was performed for patients with a history of absence seizures and those results are presented here. Methods: Patients with a diagnosis of epilepsy with PGTC seizures who were receiving 1 or 2 antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) at entry were eligible. Patients with partial seizures were excluded based on seizure history and screening electroencephalograms. There were three phases: Baseline; Escalation, during which drug was titrated to a target dose (12 wks if 2?12yrs, 7 wks if > 12yrs); Maintenance, during which doses of drug and concomitant AEDs were maintained for 12 wks. Results: Thirty-eight (18 LTG, 20 placebo (PBO)) patients with a history of days with absence seizures received drug. Median percent decrease from Baseline in PGTC seizures during the entire treatment period (ETP) was 64% in the LTG group and 30% in the PBO group. This was similar to the efficacy in the overall study population. The median percent change from Baseline in absence seizures during the ETP was a 26% decrease in the LTG group and a 100% increase in the PBO group. The most common treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) were headache (22% LTG, 35% PBO) and nausea (22% LTG, 10% PBO). Conclusions: Adjunctive LTG therapy was effective in controlling PGTC seizures and was well tolerated among patients with a history of absence seizures. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development.) 1 Dirk Thomas, 2 Ute Scharfenecker, 1 Brunhild Schiltmeyer, 3 Pam Doty, 1 Willi Cawello, and 1 Rolf Horstmann ( 1 Clinical Development, Schwarz Biosciences GmbH, Monheim, Germany ; 2 Department of ADME, Schwarz Biosciences GmbH, Monheim, Germany ; and 3 Clinical Development, Schwarz Biosciences, Inc., Raleigh, NC ) Rationale: Lacosamide is a new drug being developed for the treatment of epilepsy and neuropathic pain. Preclinical and clinical pharmacological data have been established in a series of trials and phase 3 development is currently ongoing for both indications. Information about the pharmacokinetic drug-drug-interaction (DDI) potential of lacosamide is an important part of its safety profile. Methods: Regarding the DDI potential the results of several preclinical studies as well as of 9 Phase 1 trials (n = 184 subjects) and a Phase 2 trial (n = 91 patients) are presented. Results: In vitro lacosamide is not substantially metabolized. In vitro results also show no or low potential to inhibit or to induce CYP isoforms. Since lacosamide has low binding to plasma proteins (<15%), drug displacement interactions are unlikely. In a Phase 1 trial lacosamide was administered to extensive and poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 and the results showed that the activity of CYP2C19 has no clinically relevant effect on the metabolic fate of lacosamide. Further phase 1 DDI trials have been performed with the antiepileptic drugs carbamazepine (inducer of CYP450 system) and valproic acid (inhibitor of CYP450 system) under steady-state conditions. In these trials, lacosamide had no influence on rate or extent of absorption of carbamazepine or valproic acid and vice versa. DDI trials with digoxin and metformin showed no relevant influence of these drugs on lacosamide and vice versa. Lacosamide did not influence the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the oral contraceptive Microgynon? (containing 0.03mg ethinyl estradiol and 0.15mg levonorgestrel). Coadministration of food did not alter the rate or extent of gastrointestinal absorption of lacosamide. A clinical trial in subjects with epilepsy showed no influence of lacosamide on plasma levels of common antiepileptic drugs including phenytoin. Conclusions: No DDI have been observed in these studies. Therefore the data suggest that lacosamide has low potential for DDI in clinical use. 1 Alain Vuong, 1 Susan Kerls, 1 Anne Hammer, and 1 John Messenheimer ( 1 Neurosciences, GlaxoSmithKline, Durham, NC ) Rationale: This abstract reports long term efficacy and tolerability results from the Continuation Phase of a study with lamotrigine (LTG) as adjunctive therapy in patients with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS). Methods: LTG-naïve patients (≥ 2 years, ≥ 13 kg) with inadequately controlled PGTCS, receiving a regimen of 1 or 2 AED(s) and an electroencephalogram (EEG) with evidence of generalized epileptiform discharges or no evidence of interictal expression of partial seizures were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (results presented at AES 2005). Patients having ≥ 3 PGTCS over an 8-week Baseline were randomized to receive LTG or placebo (PBO). Subjects, from either group, who completed the Blinded Phase, could enroll into a 1-year Continuation Phase (subjects on PBO converted to LTG). Results: 89 subjects entered the Continuation Phase. LTG group: n = 42, 50% male, median age = 27 years (n = 9 for 2?12 years, n = 33 for > 12 years, range = 2?53 years),50% with 1 concurrent AED, most common concurrent AEDs were valproate (n = 19, 45%) and phenytoin (n = 15, 36%) median PGTCS during Baseline = 2.0. PBO group: n = 47, 68% male, median age = 23 years (n = 9 for 2?12 years, n = 38 for > 12 years, range = 2?58 years), 68% with 1 concurrent AED, most common concurrent AEDs were valproate (n = 25, 53%) and phenytoin (n = 9, 19%), median PGTCS during Baseline = 2.7. The median percent decrease from Baseline in PGTCS was 90% and 84% during the Continuation Phase for subjects who received LTG and PBO in the Blinded Phase, respectively. For the LTG group, this decrease was similar to that observed in the Blinded Phase (82%). The median PGTCS counts per month were 2.0 and 2.7 during Baseline, and 0.2 and 0.1 during the Continuation Phase for the LTG and PBO groups, respectively. For the LTG group, the median PGTCS count per month was 0.8 in the Blinded Phase. Drug-related adverse events were 14% (LTG) and 19% (PBO). Conclusions: The results from this study, combined with the efficacy and safety of LTG for partial seizures, demonstrate that LTG is a broad spectrum AED for patients with either partial or generalized seizures. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 H. Steve White, 1 Ajay Srivastava, 2 Brian Klein, 2 Boyu Zhao, 3 Yong Moon Choi, 3 Robert Gordon, and 3 S. James Lee ( 1 Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ; 2 Johnson and Johnson Pharmaceutical Research and Development, L.L.C., Springhouse, PA ; and 3 SK Bio-Pharmaceuticals, Fairfield, NJ ) Rationale: RWJ 333369, S-2-O-carbamoyl-1-O-chlorophenyl-ethanol, is in clinical development for the treatment of focal epilepsy. The present investigation describes the results obtained from the extensive preclinical anticonvulsant studies that have been conducted to date. Methods: RWJ 333369 was tested in several mouse [MES, pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), bicuculline, and picrotoxin] and rat (MES and PTZ) acute seizure models following oral (p.o.) and intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration. It was also tested for its ability to: block audiogenic seizures in the Frings mouse, block behavioral and electrographic seizures in the corneal and hippocampal kindled rat, the lamotrigine (LTG)-resistant amygdala kindled rat; and refractory seizures in the 6 Hz seizure model. Lastly, RWJ 333369 was tested for its ability to prevent and interrupt Li-pilocarpine (Li-Pilo)-induced status epilepticus in rats. Results: In mice, i.p. RWJ 333369 was found to be active in the MES, PTZ, bicuculline, picrotoxin and audiogenic seizure tests. In rats, it was active in the acute MES test following p.o. administration. RWJ 333369 reduced seizure severity in the corneal kindled rat and seizure severity and afterdischarge duration (ADD) in the hippocampal kindled rat models of partial epilepsy. RWJ 333369 was also active in two models of refractory epilepsy at doses devoid of motor impairment. In the LTG-resistant amygdala kindled rat, RWJ 333369 produced a dose-dependent reduction in the behavioral seizure score and ADD. In the 6 Hz seizure model, the antiseizure activity of RWJ 333369 was maintained as the stimulus intensity was increased from 22 to 44 mAmp. When administered prior to Li-Pilo, RWJ 333369 (i.p.) prevented the onset of status epilepticus. Following i.v. administration, it was able to interrupt fully established Li-Pilo-induced status epilepticus. Conclusions: In animal models, RWJ 333369 was active at non-toxic doses and found to possess a broad-spectrum anticonvulsant profile in rodent models of generalized and partial epilepsy. When administered prior to, or after, the onset of Li-Pilo-induced status epilepticus, it was able to either prevent, or halt, Li-Pilo-induced status epilepticus, respectively. In contrast to CBZ, PHT, LTG, and TPM, RWJ 333369 possesses activity in the LTG-resistant amygdala kindled rat and the 6 Hz seizure models. These latter findings suggest that RWJ 333369 possesses a unique profile relative to these well-established AEDs and support the continued development of this investigational AED. (Supported by NINDS Contract 1-NO1-NS-4?2311 and a contract from Johnson and Johnson Pharmaceutical Research and Development, L.L.C.) 1 Xiao-Feng Yang and 1 Steven M. Rothman ( 1 Neurology and Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: Although levetiracetam (LEV) has established antiepileptic utility, there is still no convincing mechanistic data that account for its therapeutic success. Based upon recent binding experiments that show high affinity for SV2A, a synaptic vesicle protein, we decided to investigate the possibility that LEV inhibits neurotransmitter release. Methods: Imaging and electrophysiology experiments were carried out on 500 ?m thick rat hippocampal slices cut on a vibratome and maintined in a submerged perfusion chamber. A bipolar stimulating electrode was placed in the Schaffer collateral layer and evoked potentials were recorded in the dendritic layer of CA1. The synaptic vesicle label FM1?43 was imaged with a 2-photon microscope. Results: When slices were exposed to LEV (100 ?M) for 30 minutes, we found no alteration of baseline evoked synaptic potentials nor any change in paired pulse potentiation (PPP). However, when slices were preincuabated in LEV for 3 hours, there was a significant, frequency and concentration dependent, reduction in both PPP and synaptic facilitation. At 40 and 80 Hz stimulation, 30 ?M LEV reduced PPP from 160% to 139% of control and 155% to 120% of control, respectively (n = 8 slices). With 100 ?M LEV, stimulation frequencies as low as 5 Hz, reduced PPP from 125% to 110% of control (n = 8 slices). With repetitive stimulation from 5?80 Hz, there was a progressive decrease in successive responses in LEV-treated (100 ?M) slices that was not seen in control slices. The figure below shows the effect of a series of pulses at 80 Hz, control slices are on top, LEV below. [figure 1]When slices were incubated in ucb L060 (100 ?M), a LEV enantiomer lacking antiepileptic and SV2A binding activity, there was no effect on synaptic physiology. When slices were preincubed in FM1?43 and electrically stimulated to destain, there was a significant reduction in destaining rate in LEV (100 ?M) exposed slices, compared to control and enantiomer-exposed slices, suggesting that LEV inhibited some phase of vesicle release. Conclusions: Our data are most economically explained by a presynaptic effect of LEV on neurotransmitter release. It is possible that LEV directly blocks vesicle docking and that this effect is amplified at higher rates of stimulation. Alternatively, LEV could alter calcium buffering in presynaptic terminals or the actual flux of calcium into the terminals. Any of these mechanisms would be compatible with the known affinity of LEV for SV2A. LEV may require access to some intracellular compartment, explaining the necessity for a prolonged slice exposure. (Supported by the Alafi Family Foundation and the NIH (R01 NS042936 to SMR).) 1 Qian Zhao, 1 Junli Zhou, and 1 Gregory Holmes ( 1 Neuroscience Center at Dartmouth, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH ) Rationale: Status epilepticus (SE) is often followed by severe cognitive impairment, including memory impairment. We have shown that SE is associated with impairment of single cells in the hippocampus that fire action potentials when the animal is in a specific location in space, the so-called place cells, and that place cell function correlates well with performance in tasks of visual-spatial memory. Place cell patterns therefore appear to be an excellent measure of spatial memory and may serve as a tool to assess seizure-induced impairment in memory. Here we determined the relationship between spatial memory and place cell function following SE. In addition, we determined if levetiracetam (LEV), an antiepileptic drug with a novel mechanism of action, can improve cognitive function and place cell firing patterns when administered following SE. Methods: The study was designed to i) assess to relationship between learning and memory as measured in the Morris water maze with place cell firing patterns and histopathology in rats with and without a prior history of SE; and ii) determine whether LEV administered after SE alters subsequent outcome as measured by performance in the water maze, place cell function, and histopathology. Adult male rats were subjected to lithium-pilocarpine (Li-Pilo) SE at postnatal (P) day 70 (n = 30) and then treated with LEV or normal saline (NS) for 14 days. Following discontinuation of the drug animals were studied in the water maze and then had electrodes placed and single units recorded starting at P120. Following the testing, brains were examined for cell loss using and mossy fiber sprouting. Results: SE was associated with severely impaired performance in the water maze with SE rats demonstrating no learning over four days of testing. Paralleling this memory deficit was a marked disturbance in firing patterns of pyramidal neurons in CA1. Non-SE rats learned quickly over four days of water maze testing and had normal pyramidal cell firing patterns. LEV had no major effects on water maze performance or place cell function. Histopathological examination of the brains showed severe cell loss in CA1 in all of the SE rats with lesser degrees of injury in CA3 and the hilus. LEV treatment resulted in less histological damage in the hippocampus but had no effect on spatial memorty function or place cell physiology in either control or SE rats. Conclusions: This study demonstrates that abnormalities in place cell firing patterns can be associated with adverse behavioral consequences. The profound deficit in pyramidal cell function in this study parallels the deficiencies in spatial memory seen in our rats. While LEV did not alter water maze performance, less cell loss was seen in animals receiving LEV than animals receiving NS. Because of the severity of the SE-induced it is quite likely that any subtle beneficial effect of LEV on cognition would not be apparent. (Supported by NINDS (Grants: NS27984 and NS44295) and a grant from UCB.) 1 Syed Nizamuddin Ahmed, 1 Carly Mann, 1 D. Barry Sinclair, 1 Daphne Quigley, 2 Blayne Iskew, and 3 Arto Ohinmaa ( 1 Medicine (Neurology), University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ; 2 Regional Telemedicine Program, Capital Health, Edmonton, AB, Canada ; and 3 Public Health, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Most epilepsy patients require regular follow-up care ideally done by a neurologist. In Canada, most specialist care is confined to the major cities, and long distances incur significant costs for both patients and health care system. In Alberta, Canada there are more than 280 videoconferencing sites that can be used for telemedicine in clinical consultations. In disciplines where clinical history and focused examination is sufficient for decision making, telemedicine is expected to substitute a proportion of conventional visits. The aim of the study was to estimate cost savings and patient satisfaction of the telemedicine compared to the conventional clinic visit. Methods: This prospective randomized controlled study includes all out-of-town epilepsy patients coming to follow-up at the epilepsy clinic. After an informed consent, patients were randomized to either conventional (n = 20) or telemedicine (n = 20) clinics. Patients or caregivers filled patient satisfaction and travel cost questionnaires in both alternatives. Cost analysis included costs of traveling, lodging and lost productivity. Results: Average age of the population was 40 years (range 19?73; 45% females). 83% of patients preferred their next visit through telemedicine. About 90% of patients indicated a need for companion travel (mainly by car) to conventional clinic. Average lost working time for conventional clinic was 5.6 hours and 4.7 hours for caregivers and patients respectively. The value of lost productivity ($16.40/hour) was $169, hotel cost (12%; $85/night) $10.20 and the value of car mileage (2 ? 280 km; $0.33/km) $185, totaling about $364. Patient costs for telehealth were minor. Conclusions: Telemedicine can play a major role in the follow-up care of epilepsy patients, reduce patient costs and improve patient satisfaction. This is the first full time epilepsy telemedicine clinic in Western Canada. (Supported by: Project was funded by Capital Health Regional Telehealth in Edmonton and the Department of Medicine Alternative Relationship Plan.) 1 Hajo M. Hamer, 2 Annika Spottke, 1 Christiane Aletsee, 1 Susanne Knake, 1 Janine Reis, 1 Wolfgang H. Oertel, 1 Felix Rosenow, and 1 Richard Dodel ( 1 Neurology, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany ; and 2 Neurology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: There are no recent studies on the direct and indirect costs of epilepsy in Germany. Therefore, we performed a pilot study to estimate these costs of epilepsy in a German epilepsy center. Methods: A prevalence-based, cross-sectional convenience cohort of adults attending the outpatient clinic of our tertiary epilepsy center was evaluated. Seizure-free patients and patients presenting with their first seizure were excluded. Direct and indirect costs were prospectively recorded over a three months period using questionnaires and a patient diary. Cost driving factors were identified. Results: 101 patients were included (40.7 ± 15.2 years; disease duration: 18.1 ± 15.3 years; 6 patients had focal epilepsy with simple partial seizures only, 28 with complex partial seizures, 43 with secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures; 20 had idiopathic generalized epilepsy). The total costs of epilepsy per patient were in average ? 2550 ± 4200 over the three months period. Direct cost contributed 41% to the total costs. Costs of anticonvulsant medication were the main contributor to the direct costs while indirect costs were caused mainly by losses due to early retirement. Cost driving factors included higher seizure frequency, longer disease duration, ictal falls and inadequate behavior. Conclusions: Indirect costs were higher than direct costs in adult patients with active epilepsy attending a German epilepsy center. Medication contributed the most to the direct costs and early retirement was the main factor for the indirect costs. The costs of epilepsy in this German study were above average of the European costs of epilepsy. 1 Mark Rusch, and 2 W. Curt LaFrance Jr. ( 1 Psychology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI ; and 2 Neurology and Psychiatry, Rhode Island Hospital/Brown Medical School, Providence, RI ) Rationale: Psychological nonepileptic seizures (NES) are sudden paroxysmal alterations in consciousness, behavior, sensory-motor function or autonomic activity without epileptiform correlates that are often misdiagnosed as epileptic seizures. Definitive diagnosis occurs with video EEG long term monitoring (LTM), usually conducted during admission to comprehensive epilepsy centers. Although many newly diagnosed NES patients are referred for psychiatric or psychological treatment of a presumed underlying emotional disorder, others are simply discharged without clear direction or recommendations. A recent NINDS/NIMH/American Epilepsy Society (AES) sponsored international NES Treatment Workshop (Washington, DC, May 2005) identified a lack of knowledge in the field regarding standard of care in the management of patients with NES. Methods: We administered a preliminary survey to AES members via web and on paper to determine actual post-diagnostic instructions given to patients and referral practices, or NES ?treatment as usual? (TAU). Results: Half of the 90 respondents were neurologists, 12% were neuropsychologists/psychologists, and 9% were psychiatrists, from 12 countries and 25 states. Video EEGs were done at 80% of the sites, and LTM is used in one-third of the sites to confirm NES diagnosis. Provocative testing was used at half of the sites. All respondents reported discussing the diagnosis of NES with the patients, and 91% discuss with the family. The term most often used for the events was ?nonepileptic seizures,? and stress, anxiety/depression, and past trauma were the three etiologies most commonly given to the patient. Treatment was recommended by 95% of the respondents, and 69% of neurologists continued to follow the patient after NES diagnosis. Referrals were most commonly made to psychiatrists and clinical psychologists for treatment. The respondents thought that NES education, psychotherapy, and psychopharmacologic interventions were the most effective treatments. AEDs were tapered by 77% of the respondents, and 37% prescribed psychotropics if comorbid diagnoses were made. Conclusions: The preliminary survey results are intended to inform clinicians and researchers about the range of standard practices among physicians and allied health professional members of AES regarding their responses to NES patients. The survey addresses what neurologists and clinicians discussed with patients about the diagnosis of NES, the terms used to describe the episodes, and the recommendations for treatment. The final survey will summarize national practices, and the range of care, or TAU, offered to patients with NES. (Supported by American Epilepsy Society Research and Training Workshop Award.) 1 Louise Mc Quaid, 1 Maire White, 2 Colin Doherty, 1 Kevin Murphy, 1 Tony Kenny, 1 Norman Delanty, and 1 Mary Fitzsimons ( 1 Department of Neurology and IT Department, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland ; and 2 Department of Neurology, St James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland ) Rationale: Clinical research is an information intensive business involving the integration of different types of data including unstructured and structured text, alphanumeric, diagnostic image data, sound and video. Data collection and management in research proves cumbersome due to limitations posed by incomplete, inaccessible, unreadable paper charts or data stored on disparate electronic databases, compromising quality, integrity and integration of data. For example, identification of patients who meet inclusion criteria for clinical research studies is arduous. Reliability of phenotyping for genetic research can be similarly compromised. A secure, standardised EPR can overcome data management limitations by allowing multiple users simultaneous access to information at different locations. It facilitates ease of updating, interrogation, auditing and detailed analysis of complex data. The aim is to develop an epilepsy EPR to support epilepsy clinical and research services. Methods: A review of various research projects in the epilepsy programme was conducted including: imaging research, SUDEP, pharmacogenetics, and epilepsy and pregnancy. Interviews with researchers were carried out to understand information requirements. Strands of information common to all projects and project specific information was recorded. The feedback was used to build and tailor system screens more appropriate to user needs. Reports were constructed to understand how researchers interrogate the system and identify trend data required for statistical reporting. Results: The epilepsy EPR is at an advanced stage with the development of five core components including: clinic-administration, demographics, social history, medications and epilepsy history. Technical development is based on international healthcare standards to facilitate exchange of data between different systems. It has two components: one manages generic patient information and one that manages epilepsy specific information based on the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE). The system architecture can therefore be applied to develop EPR's for the management of other diseases. Conclusions: Better data management is critical to advance the quality of research activites. An EPR can facilitate this by providing researchers with information where and when needed. Benefits include standardised data entry using international code sets to ensure efficient exchange of information, allowing for interrogation of large data populations. Capturing data at the point of care will improve quality and integrity. Improving efficiency of clinical research is highly dependable on quality clinical information. An EPR can contribute by acting as an interface between clinical care and research. A demonstration of the epilepsy EPR will be available in the exhibition area at the AES. (Supported by Irish Health Research Board.) 1 John McDermott, 1 Chalres Deacon, and 1 Cecile Walti ( 1 Neurology, Sherbrooke University Hospital ? Centre Hospitalier Universitaire De Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada ) Rationale: CSE is a medical emergency with significant risk of mortality and neurologic sequellae. Prompt treatment may reduce this risk. Methods: We designed a protocol for the treatment of CSE according to the recommendations found in the literature and the pharmacological agents that are locally available. CSE was defined as generalized tonic-clonic (or tonic in children) seizure activity beyond 5 minutes or repeated seizures without return of normal level of consciousness. The protocol was presented to the emergency, neurology and pediatrics departments with the goal of optimizing treatment of CSE at the Sherbrooke University Hospital. The major recommendations include optimal support therapy at onset, lorazepam at minute 1, phenytoin at minute 5 and a choice of propofol, phenobarbital or midazolam for refractory seizures. A retrospective review of 19 episodes of CSE from January 2005 to May 2006 was then performed. The initial management, investigation and use of antiepileptic agents were evaluated. Where possible the doses and the timing of administration were also evaluated and compared to the recommendations proposed in the protocol. Results: 13 cases of CSE were identified in adults (12 patients) and 6 in children (4 patients). A clear etiology was found in 18 cases. Supportive treatment and initial investigations were generally appropriate. In all cases, patients received lorazepam. 9 received less than 50% of the recommended dose and significant delays (>5 min since management began) occurred in 4 cases. In 11 cases, lorazepam was administered in a stepwise, incremental manner. Phenytoin was indicated in all 19 episodes and administered in 15. Five adult patients received 1 gram IV without titration to weight, contributing to a low dose. It was administered at a rate < 30 mg/min in 4 adult cases. Perfusion was initiated only after significant delay (>15 min since management began) in 8 cases. Patients were intubated in 10 cases. Two patients who were intubated had received sub-optimal initial treatment. In both, seizure activity stopped when provided intubation induction agents. CSE persisted from < 10 minutes to 45 minutes from onset of management. EEG monitoring was performed in 7 patients, none had residual seizure activity. One patient had continued seizure activity subsequent to administration of initial agents; it was controlled with intubation induction agents. Conclusions: We found a tendency to administer medications below the recommended doses. In some, significant delays occurred prior to treatment. A tendency to administer lorazepam in an incremental manner contributed to delays in optimal treatment in some cases. Closer adherence to recommendations is suggested to minimize duration of seizure activity. 1 Blagovest Nikolov, 1 Douglas Labar, 1 Kenneth Perrine, 2 Joyce Cramer, and 1 Cynthia Harden ( 1 Neurology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ; and 2 Psychiatry, Yale School of Medicine ) Rationale: Mood disorders are a frequent comorbidity in persons with epilepsy. As part of the Epilepsy Foundation's initiative on mood disorders, a survey was developed to assess knowledge of and attitudes and practices towards mood disorders in epilepsy. After this survey was piloted at the American Epilepsy Society Meeting in 2004, it was thought that information was needed from a more representative sample of US neurologists; therefore the survey was distributed to members of the American Academy of Neurology (AAN). Methods: The survey entitled ?Mood in Epilepsy Neurology Practice Questionnaire?consists of 14 questions including three demographic items. A 5-degree Likert scale was developed for most answer choices. We used an internet survey provider to send the questions via e-mail to 900 randomly selected AAN members. Results: 156 responses (17%) were obtained and the percentages of the answers to selected questions follow: 1)? How often do you ask epilepsy patients about their mood? Never 1/Rarely 7/Sometimes 26/Often 46/Always 20 2)? How much do you think that symptoms of a mood disorder are important factors in determining an epilepsy patient's quality of life? Very little 1/To a mild degree 1/Somewhat 10/Quite a bit 52/A lot 36 3)? When you diagnose a mood disorder in an epilepsy patient, how often do you initiate a medication to treat it (medication for depression, anxiety, etc)? Never 6/Rarely 12/Sometimes 38/Often 38/Always 6 4)? When you diagnose a mood disorder in an epilepsy patient with a mood disorder, how often do you refer the patient to a psychiatrist for initiation of treatment? Never 3/Rarely 21/Sometimes 44/Often 24/Always 8 5)? How frequently do you limit your prescribing of antidepressants because of concern about exacerbating seizures? Always 1/Often 5/Sometimes 30/Rarely 50/Never 14 6)? In your practice, how much of an obstacle is the patient's insurance coverage when referring epilepsy patients with depression for psychiatric treatment? Overwhelming obstacle 7/Often an obstacle 26/Sometimes an obstacle 31/Usually not an obstacle 13/Rarely an obstacle 13/Don't know 10 7)? Your age in years 25?35 = 17; 35?45 = 29; 45?55 = 27; 55?65 = 22; 65 and older = 5 8)? Type of Practice Adult Neurology ?Academic = 33 Adult Neurology ? Private = 39 Adult Epileptology ?Academic = 11 Adult Epileptology ? Private = 4 Pediatric Neurology ?Academic = 9 Pediatric Neurology ? Private = 4 Pediatric Epileptology ?Academic = 4 Pediatric Epileptology ? Private = 0 Conclusions: A random survey of AAN members finds that practitioners are aware of the importance of mood problems in patients with epilepsy. Further, the respondents often ask these patients about their mood and initiate a plan of treatment. However, since completing this survey was voluntary, the sample may have been biased in favor of such responses. Difficulty with insurance issues when trying to obtain psychiatric care is consistently reported. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation.) 1 Cheryl P. Shore, 1 Janice M. Buelow, and 2 Jingwei Wu ( 1 Indiana University School of Nursing, Indiana University/Purdue University, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 Division of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indiana University/Purdue University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: In a sample of caregivers of children with epilepsy and significant learning problems, we noted that some caregivers gave accounts of a prompt diagnosis of epilepsy, while others described a delay. The purpose of this pilot study was to answer the research question: What factors are associated with a delay to a diagnosis of epilepsy in children with both a seizure disorder and learning problems? Methods: Qualitative data from twenty retrospective, open ended interviews with primary caregivers of children who had both a diagnosis of epilepsy and significant learning problems were examined for presence or absence of factors. Interviews were dichotomized into two categories: those that described a timely diagnostic process, and those that told of a delay. The qualitative data were then coded as to the presence or absence of factors. These included: annual income greater than $30,000, both parents actively involved with the child, parental college education, generalized tonic/clonic seizures as the presenting seizure type, caregiver mention of child fever or febrile seizures, and a diagnosis of developmental delay prior to diagnosis of epilepsy. Child age at diagnosis was also noted. SPSS was used to describe the data and conduct logistic regression analysis to explore for associations between presence/absence of factors and age of child with delay to diagnosis. Results: Of the twenty caregivers, 11 described the diagnostic process as prompt, while 9 regarded it as delayed. Older child age at diagnosis was found to associate with the delayed group, (p = .05). Three of the dichotomous factors described above were significantly associated with group membership (delay to diagnosis versus prompt diagnosis): some college education of at least one parent/caregiver (p = .02), generalized tonic/clonic seizure as the presenting seizure type (p = .04), and a diagnosis of developmental delay prior to diagnosis of epilepsy (p = .04). Conclusions: While our pilot study utilized a small sample, our findings suggest that delay to diagnosis might be associated with child, parent and seizure factors. Our sample was too small to conduct multifactor logistic regression analyses which would allow us to explore the influence of factors in combination. Our goal is to conduct a larger study with a more diverse sample in order to explore combinations of factors that are associated with an increased risk for delay to a diagnosis of epilepsy. (Supported by the Center for Enhancing Quality of Life in Chronic Illness at Indiana University School of Nursing and by R01 NR04536 and a supplement from the Office of Rare Diseases to Joan. K. Austin.) 1 Tricia Y. Ting, 1 Olukemi Ajayi, 2 Krauss Gregory, 1 Krumholz Allan, 1 Hopp Jennifer, and 1 Joseph Martinez ( 1 Neurology, University of Maryland SOM, Baltimore, MD ; and 2 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University SOM, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Acute repetitive seizures (ARS), multiple seizures within 24 hours with recovery between seizures, are common. It has been thought that ARS requires urgent treatment in the Emergency Department (ED), but the management of ARS is not as well-defined as other acute seizure presentations such as status epilepticus or alcohol withdrawal seizures. ARS is commonly treated with benzodiazepines (BZD) sometimes with a longer-acting antiepileptic drug (AED), such as intravenous phenytoin (PHT), valproic acid (VPA), or leviteracitam (LEV). A better understanding of the characteristics of ARS and its response to therapy may help to optimize treatment of ARS in an ED setting. Methods: Patients who presented to the UMMC ED (Baltimore, MD) with ARS between 11/01/05 through 2/1/06 were identified. Initial search criteria included all patients at least 18 years of age with discharge diagnosis code(s) for seizure(s). ARS characteristics, ED treatment course including length of stay, and outcome were extracted. Patients who presented with status epilepticus or alcohol withdrawal seizures were excluded from this analysis. Results: Over a 3-month period, 88 patients presented to the ED with seizures. Of these, 20 (23%) met criteria for ARS (median 3 seizures). Eight patients received either no treatments or only a single dose of BZD. Nine patients received some combination of BZD with a longer acting AED (PHT or VPA). Three patients received only a longer acting AED (PHT or LEV). No patients had recurrent seizures after treatment (or lack of treatment). Patients who received a combination of BZD and longer acting AED or a longer acting AED alone had an average length of stay greater than 10 hours and were more likely to be admitted, while patients who received no treatment or BZD only stayed in the ED for less than 10 hours on average and were less likely to be admitted. Conclusions: The majority of patients with ARS do well, even when not treated or given only a single dose of BZD. While all patients in this study had an excellent outcome, patients who were treated with a longer acting AED or a combination of longer acting AED and BZD tended to have longer ED stays and were more likely to be admitted. Based on these findings, perhaps the urgent use of longer acting AEDs to treat ARS in the ED setting should be reconsidered.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 174th meeting, 8–10 January 1997
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 181
IS  - 1
SN  - 0022-3417
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.1711810102
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.1711810102
SP  - A1
EP  - A63
PY  - 1997
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 45th Annual Meeting of the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Dermatologische Forschung (ADF) Zurich, Switzerland, March 7-10, 2018
JO  - Experimental Dermatology
JA  - Exp Dermatol
VL  - 27
IS  - 3
SN  - 0906-6705
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/exd.13486
DO  - doi:10.1111/exd.13486
SP  - e2
EP  - e106
PY  - 2018
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Aslan, Yılmaz Umut
AU  - Uludamar, Altay
AU  - Özkan, Yasemin
TI  - Clinical performance of pressable glass-ceramic veneers after 5, 10, 15, and 20 years: A retrospective case series study
JO  - Journal of Esthetic and Restorative Dentistry
JA  - J Esthet Restor Dent
VL  - 31
IS  - 5
SN  - 1496-4155
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jerd.12496
DO  - doi:10.1111/jerd.12496
SP  - 415
EP  - 422
KW  - clinical long-term study
KW  - esthetic restorations
KW  - glass-ceramics
KW  - lithium disilicate
KW  - veneers
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Objectives To evaluate the long-term clinical performance and survival rate of pressable lithium-disilicate glass-ceramic veneers (LDSVs). Materials and Methods A total of 413 LDSVs were bonded to anterior and posterior teeth by three experienced clinicians between 1998 and 2012. The LDSVs were examined for color/ esthetic match of the glass-ceramic surface (esthetic evaluation), fracture rate, marginal discoloration (staining of the luting cement), and marginal integrity (including caries, clinical evaluation). For clinical and esthetic evaluations, the modified United States Public Health Services (USPHS) score was used in this study. The success rate was determined with a Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Results The mean observation time was 11.33?±?4.85?years. There was no loss to follow-up, all restorations were accounted for in the final analysis. The probability of survival of the 413 veneers was 98% after 5 years, 95% at 10 years, 91% at 15, and 87% at 20?years, indicating a very low clinical failure rate. Of the 413 restorations, complications were occurred in 15 (3.63%) of all restorations, and fractures and debonding in 6 (1.45%) and 9 (2.18%), respectively. Conclusions The LDSVs showed high survival rate and very good results for color match and anatomic form and marginal integrity in the long-term analysis. Clinical Significance The long-term performance of LDSVs can be considered as highly favorable when carefully planned.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 11TH BIENNIAL MEETING OF THE ASIA PACIFIC SOCIETY FOR SEXUAL MEDICINE  OCTOBER 6-10, 2007, JEJU, KOREA
JO  - The Journal of Sexual Medicine
VL  - 5
IS  - s5
SN  - 1743-6095
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1743-6109.2008.001095.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1743-6109.2008.001095.x
SP  - 197
EP  - 258
PY  - 2008
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Crewther, David
AU  - Sergejew, Alex
AU  - Shea, Tracey
TI  - The Abstracts of the 14th Australasian Society for Psychophysiology Conference 10–12 December 2004 The University of Melbourne, Victoria
JO  - Australian Journal of Psychology
VL  - 57
IS  - S1
SN  - 0004-9530
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1080/00049530600940004
DO  - doi:10.1080/00049530600940004
SP  - 16
EP  - 40
PY  - 2005
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lo, Anthony WI
AU  - Tang, Nelson LS
AU  - To, Ka-Fai
TI  - How the SARS coronavirus causes disease: host or organism?
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 208
IS  - 2
SN  - 0022-3417
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.1897
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.1897
SP  - 142
EP  - 151
KW  - SARS
KW  - coronavirus
KW  - pathogenesis
KW  - cytokines
KW  - chemokines
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract The previous epidemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) has ended. However, many questions concerning how the aetiological agent, the novel SARS coronavirus (CoV), causes illness in humans remain unanswered. The pathology of fatal cases of SARS is dominated by diffuse alveolar damage. Specific histological changes are not detected in other organs. These contrast remarkably with the clinical picture, in which there are apparent manifestations in multiple organs. Both pathogen and host factors are important in the pathogenesis of SARS. The choice of specific receptors and the unique genome of the SARS-CoV are important elements in understanding the biology of the pathogen. For the host cells, the outcome of SARS-CoV infection, whether there are cytopathic effects or not, depends on the cell types that are infected. At the whole-body level, immune-mediated damage, due to activation of cytokines and/or chemokines and, perhaps, autoimmunity, may play key roles in the clinical and pathological features of SARS. Continued research is still required to determine the pathogenetic mechanisms involved and to combat this new emerging human infectious disease. Copyright ? 2006 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Meyers, Carolyn
AU  - Lisiecki, Jeffrey
AU  - Miller, Sarah
AU  - Levin, Adam
AU  - Fayad, Laura
AU  - Ding, Catherine
AU  - Sono, Takashi
AU  - McCarthy, Edward
AU  - Levi, Benjamin
AU  - James, Aaron W
C7  - e10172
TI  - Heterotopic Ossification: A Comprehensive Review
JO  - JBMR Plus
JA  - JBMR Plus
VL  - 3
IS  - 4
SN  - 2475-0328
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbm4.10172
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbm4.10172
SP  - e10172
KW  - HETEROTOPIC BONE
KW  - ECTOPIC BONE
KW  - MYOSITIS OSSIFICANS
KW  - FIBRODYSPLASIA OSSIFICANS PROGRESSIVA
PY  - 2019
AB  - ABSTRACT Heterotopic ossification (HO) is a diverse pathologic process, defined as the formation of extraskeletal bone in muscle and soft tissues. HO can be conceptualized as a tissue repair process gone awry and is a common complication of trauma and surgery. This comprehensive review seeks to synthesize the clinical, pathoetiologic, and basic biologic features of HO, including nongenetic and genetic forms. First, the clinical features, radiographic appearance, histopathologic diagnosis, and current methods of treatment are discussed. Next, current concepts regarding the mechanistic bases for HO are discussed, including the putative cell types responsible for HO formation, the inflammatory milieu and other prerequisite ?niche? factors for HO initiation and propagation, and currently available animal models for the study of HO of this common and potentially devastating condition. ? 2019 The Authors. JBMR Plus published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts from the 19th Annual North American Neuromodulation Society Meeting (NANS) Las Vegas, NV, USA December 10-13, 2015
JO  - Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface
JA  - Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface
VL  - 19
IS  - 3
SN  - 1094-7159
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ner.12428
DO  - doi:10.1111/ner.12428
SP  - e1
EP  - e158
PY  - 2016
ER  - 
