
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wu, Xing
AU  - Chen, Hui
AU  - Wang, Yongliang
AU  - Li, Hongwei
TI  - The relationship between coronary risk factors and elevated 1-h postload plasma glucose levels in patients with established coronary heart disease
JO  - Clinical Endocrinology
JA  - Clin Endocrinol
VL  - 78
IS  - 1
SN  - 0300-0664
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2265.2012.04362.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2265.2012.04362.x
SP  - 67
EP  - 72
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary Objective Recent studies have shown that an elevated 1-h postload plasma glucose (1hPG) is able to identify subjects with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) at high risk for future type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. However, clinical studies about the characteristics of coronary heart disease (CHD) patients with elevated 1hPG are lacking. The aim of this study was to analyse the 1hPG level in CHD patients with NGT. Methods A total of 204 CHD patients with NGT were recruited. Subjects underwent an oral glucose tolerance test, echocardiography and coronary angiography. Demographic data were recorded and blood samples obtained. According to the 1hPG cut-off point of 8·6 mm, patients were divided into two groups: 1hPG ≥ 8·6 mm (n = 65) and 1hPG < 8·6 mm (n = 139). Results Compared with the 1hPG < 8·6 mm group, subjects with 1hPG ≥ 8·6 mm had a worse metabolic profile, exhibiting significantly higher body mass index, systolic blood pressure, triglyceride level and lower HDL-cholesterol level. Plasma high-sensitivity CRP (hsCRP) levels were higher in the 1hPG ≥ 8·6 mm group than in the 1hPG < 8·6 mm group. Coronary angiography revealed that single-vessel changes were more frequent in the 1hPG < 8·6 mm group, but there were no significant differences in the Gensini score. Conclusions Patients with CHD with 1hPG ≥ 8·6 mm have a worse metabolic profile, higher levels of hsCRP and multi-vessel coronary atherosclerosis. These findings suggest that, in patients with CHD, elevated 1hPG increases coronary risk factors and may be a marker for early-stage glucose intolerance.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - CHANDNA, V. K.
AU  - MORRIS, ELISABETH
AU  - GLIATTO, J. M.
AU  - PARADIS, MARY ROSE
TI  - Localised subcutaneous cryptococcal granuloma in a horse
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 25
IS  - 2
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1993.tb02931.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1993.tb02931.x
SP  - 166
EP  - 168
PY  - 1993
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Paul, AL
AU  - Shaw, SP
AU  - Rozanski, EA
TI  - HOSPITAL PERSONNEL'S PERCEPTION AND KNOWLEDGE OF HOSPITAL ACQUIRED INFECTION CONTROL
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 14
IS  - S1
SN  - 1479-3261
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-10-04035.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-10-04035.x
SP  - S1
EP  - S17
PY  - 2004
AB  - Hospital acquired infections (HAI) are a major source of morbidity and mortality in human and veterinary hospitals. Research in human hospitals has shown that well focused staff education is an important step in limiting the development of HAI. Our hospital currently has no training program with respect to HAI. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the general knowledge of hospital staff concerning HAI as the first step in developing a hospital wide education program. Ninety doctors and technicians were given a questionnaire containing 15 questions about HAI. The questionnaires were hand distributed and immediately completed. Ten of the questions tested knowledge of HAI, while five questions concerned the individual's perception of HAI in our hospital. Answers were given as a range from strongly agree to strongly disagree or in the form of multiple choice. With respect to their perception of HAI, 66% of technicians and 50% of doctors believed that they possess a good working knowledge of HAI. Several areas for improvement in hospital staff knowledge were identified. Technicians were more likely than doctors to incorrectly believe that 1) routine environmental cultures are effective at preventing HAI (percent correct answer: technicians 30%, doctors 52%), 2) that all animals that aspirated gastric contents under anesthesia develop clinical evidence of pneumonia (percent correct answer: technicians 55%, doctors 84%), and 3) that animals with an indwelling urinary catheter should be treated with prophylactic antibiotics (percent correct answer: technicians 51%, doctors 90%). In addition, doctors were more likely to identify Amikacin as the antibiotic of choice for patients with HAI in our hospital (percent correct answer: technicians 27%, doctors 79%). Neither group was able to adequately identify the patients in the ICU as the primary reservoir for the multi-drug resistant pathogens that cause HAI (percent correct answer: technicians 20%, doctors 15%). The discrepancy in knowledge between the two groups is likely explained by attendance of faculty, residents, and interns at one or more continuing education rounds sessions where HAI were discussed. This finding is contrary to what is frequently found in human hospitals where the nursing staff typically demonstrates superior knowledge of HAI when compared to doctors. The results of this study demonstrate that knowledge of HAI is not optimal in both the doctors and technicians in our hospital. Further better focused efforts are warranted to address the educational shortcomings evidenced by this study.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cantu, David Antonio
AU  - Kao, W. John
TI  - Combinatorial Biomatrix/Cell-Based Therapies for Restoration of Host Tissue Architecture and Function
JO  - Advanced Healthcare Materials
JA  - Advanced Healthcare Materials
VL  - 2
IS  - 12
SN  - 2192-2640
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adhm.201300063
DO  - doi:10.1002/adhm.201300063
SP  - 1544
EP  - 1563
KW  - biomaterials
KW  - cell-based therapy
KW  - cell presentation
KW  - extracellular matrix
KW  - foreign body response
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract This Progress Report reviews recent advances in the utility of extracellular matrix (ECM)-mimic biomaterials in presenting and delivering therapeutic cells to promote tissue healing. This overview gives a brief introduction of different cell types being used in regenerative medicine and tissue engineering while addressing critical issues that must be overcome before cell-based approaches can be routinely employed in the clinic. A selection of five commonly used cell-associated, biomaterial platforms (collagen, hyaluronic acid, fibrin, alginate, and poly(ethylene glycol)) are reviewed for treatment of a number of acute injury or diseases with emphasis on animal models and clinical trials. This article concludes with current challenges and future perspectives regarding foreign body host response to biomaterials and immunological reactions to allogeneic or xenogeneic cells, vascularization and angiogenesis, matching mechanical strength and anisotropy of native tissues, as well as other non-technical issues regarding the clinical translation of biomatrix/cell-based therapies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pang, Hongyan
AU  - Wang, Lei
AU  - Liu, Jie
AU  - Wang, Shengfeng
AU  - Yang, Yuanhua
AU  - Yang, Ting
AU  - Wang, Chen
TI  - The prevalence and risk factors of venous thromboembolism in hospitalized patients with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
JO  - The Clinical Respiratory Journal
JA  - Clin Respir J
VL  - 12
IS  - 11
SN  - 1752-6981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/crj.12959
DO  - doi:10.1111/crj.12959
SP  - 2573
EP  - 2580
KW  - acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
KW  - prevalence
KW  - risk factors
KW  - venous thromboembolism
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Introduction Venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (AECOPD) is not rare, which would affect the patient?s prognosis. Objectives To examine the prevalence, risk factors and clinical characteristics of AECOPD patients with VTE. Methods We performed this multi-center, prospective, observational study that involved 16 hospitals in China. Patients admitted to hospital due to AECOPD were consecutively enrolled. Baseline characteristics, VTE risk factors, symptoms, signs and auxiliary examination results were collected. Lower limb venous ultrasound and computed tomography pulmonary angiography were examined. Results Between June 2009 and October 2010, a total of 1144 AECOPD patients (the average age 72.0 ± 9.1 years, 761 males) were enrolled in this study. Seventy-eight (6.8%) were diagnosed with VTE, including 24 PE, 64 DVT, 10 combined PE and DVT. VTE patients were older than non-VTE patients. History of venous thromboembolism and lower extremity varicose vein, and presence of longer immobility (≥3 days), lower limbs problems of swelling, pain and walking difficulties, diuretics use, fever, syncope, higher d-dimer and lower hemoglobin were more common in VTE patients than in non-VTE patients. After adjusting the covariates, venous thrombosis history, prolonged immobility (≥3 days), lower limb pain before hospitalization, higher d-dimer independently associated with VTE development. Regular glucocorticoid use was not associated with increased risk of VTE in this set of patients. Conclusion VTE is relatively common among hospitalized AECOPD patients. Conventional prophylactic anticoagulant therapy may be considered for those hospitalized AECOPD patients with risk factors.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Posters Abstracts
JO  - Research and Practice in Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - Res Pract Thromb Haemost
VL  - 3
IS  - S1
SN  - 2475-0328
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rth2.12229
DO  - doi:10.1002/rth2.12229
SP  - 1
EP  - 891
PY  - 2019
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts Presented at the World Congress of Veterinary Anesthesia, Knoxville, Tennessee, 17–20 September 2003
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 31
IS  - 4
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2004.00220a.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2004.00220a.x
SP  - 282
EP  - 291
PY  - 2004
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Robinson, C. S.
AU  - Robertson, J. T.
AU  - Reed, S. M.
AU  - Pinchbeck, L. R.
TI  - Treatment of a mare for Conidiobolus coronatus infection
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 19
IS  - 8
SN  - 0957-7734
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/095777307X220452
DO  - doi:10.2746/095777307X220452
SP  - 396
EP  - 403
KW  - horse
KW  - Conidiobolus coronatus
KW  - nasal septum resection
KW  - iodine
PY  - 2007
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Van Thielen, B.
AU  - Pestieau, P.
AU  - Van Der Strieckt, A.
AU  - Willekens, I.
AU  - Busoni, V.
AU  - Verhelle, F.
AU  - Goossens, P.
AU  - Delperdange, P.
AU  - De Mol, G.
AU  - Jacqmot, O.
AU  - Buls, N.
AU  - Kichou, M.
AU  - de Mey, J.
TI  - Normal Radiographic Anatomy of the Donkey Foot from Birth to 2 Years of Age
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_29
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_29
SP  - 13
EP  - 13
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study Normal radiographic anatomy of the juvenile donkey foot has not been reported previously. Objectives To provide a radiographic survey of the anatomical development of the donkey foot from 0 to 2 years of age. Study design Radiographic survey. Methods The right front foot of 9 donkey foals born in the spring of 2012, housed and fed in the same conditions, were radiographed every month for the first 6 months of age and every 3 months for the following 18 months. Latero-medial radiographs with and without barium markers at the coronary band and anterior-posterior radiographs of both front feet were obtained during weightbearing. Radiographs were obtained at 55?kV and 3?mAs with mobile x-ray equipment (Gierth RHF 200?ML, Examion DR810). Results The distal physis of the metacarpus (McIII) was closed at the mean age of 17.8 months (SD: 11.5, 21). The proximal physis of the proximal phalanx was closed at the mean age of 15.5 months (SD: 11.5, 21). The distal physis appeared as a clear radiolucent line at 2 weeks of age and was still visible subtly at 24 months. The proximal physis of the middle phalanx was closed at the mean age of 10.7 months (SD: 11.5, 19). The distal physis was visible at birth but closed at 4 days. Conclusions Based on our results, it seems that physes close at an older age in the donkey foal than in the horse. Ethical animal research:?The study was approved by the Ethics committee of the Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Brussels, Belgium. (VUB/14-272-2). Owners gave informed consent for their horses' inclusion in the study. Source of funding:?The authors acknowledge Vtrade Belgium for the logistic assistance. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gröndahl, G.
AU  - Berglund, A.
AU  - Skidell, J.
AU  - Bondesson, U.
AU  - Salomonsson, M.
TI  - Detection of the Toxin Hypoglycin A in Pastured Horses and in the European Sycamore Maple Tree (Acer Pseudoplatanus) During Two Outbreaks of Atypical Myopathy in Sweden
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_49
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_49
SP  - 22
EP  - 22
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study Hypoglycin A (HG) appears to cause atypical myopathy (AM), but to our knowledge, detection of HG in affected and unaffected horses and concurrently in plants that they were exposed to has not previously been reported. Objectives To investigate HG in samples from horses exposed to Acer pseudoplatanus (European sycamore maple) and in such plant material, at the time of clinical cases of AM in the herd. Study design Cross-sectional study. Methods Blood was collected from 2 horses with AM and 22 clinically healthy co-grazing horses in 2 Swedish farms within one week of onset of signs (May 2014) and one month later, after horses were moved to other pastures. Ten healthy control horses from unaffected farms were sampled once. Samaras, seedlings, flowers and leaves from Acer pseudoplatanus and from Acer platanoides L (Norway maple) were collected from affected pastures. Hypoglycin A was analysed using chemical derivatisation with dansyl chloride (DNS) and ultra high performance liquid chromatography?tandem mass spectrometry. Hypoglycin A was detected as derivatised compound HG-DNS [M+H]+ with selected reaction monitoring. Results Hypoglycin A was detected in the horses affected with AM, and also in 20 out of 22 co-grazing horses. One month later, a surviving case horse and 9/20 co-grazing horses were still positive for HG. Controls from other farms were negative for HG. Hypoglycin A was detected in plant material from Acer pseudoplatanus, but not from Acer platanoides L. Conclusions Horses grazing in pastures with HG-containing Acer pseudoplatanus were positive for HG in blood, and some showed severe signs of myopathy. Ethical animal research:?Ethical consent for blood sampling was granted (C113/11) and horse owners gave their informed consent to inclusion of horses in the study. Source of funding:?National Veterinary Institute, Sweden. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Froydenlund, T.J.
AU  - Dixon, P.M.
AU  - Smith, S.H.
AU  - Reardon, R.J.M.
TI  - An Anatomical Study of the Dorsal and Ventral Nasal Conchal Bullae in Normal Horses: Gross Morphology and Histological Features
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_56
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_56
SP  - 25
EP  - 25
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study The morphology of the dorsal (DCB) and ventral (VCB) nasal conchal bullae, including their cellulae, drainage and histology, are poorly described. The recent recognition that these bullae can become infected, causing chronic unilateral nasal discharge has stimulated interest in these structures. A more complete understanding of their anatomy would be useful in the diagnosis and treatment of their disorders. Objectives To document the structure, drainage and histology of the equine DCB and VCB. Study design Descriptive. Methods Fourteen fresh cadaveric horse heads, were transected sagittally midline and dissected to expose the nasal conchal bullae. The dimensions of each bulla, the number of drainage apertures, the number of cellulae and orientation of the septae were recorded. Representative samples were collected for histopathology. Results The mean lengths of the DCB and VCB were 77.7?mm (range 48?105?mm) and 57.1?mm (range 34?86?mm) respectively; equivalent to 13.8% and 10.2% of skull length, respectively. The mean widths of the DCB and VCB were 28.5?mm (range 21?35?mm) and 28.2?mm (range 13?41?mm) respectively; equivalent to 5.1% and 5% of skull length respectively. The median number of drainage apertures from the DCB and VCB were 2 and 1 respectively. The median number of cellulae within the DCB and VCB were 3 and 2, respectively. No communications were identified between the DCB and VCB and the adjacent paranasal sinuses. Histology revealed that the bullae consisted of ciliated, pseudostratified, columnar epithelium supported by a glandular submucosa often overlying turbinate bone and, variably, hyaline cartilage. Conclusions The morphology of the equine nasal conchal bullae is quite variable. The DCB is generally a more complex structure than the VCB, containing more septae, cellulae and drainage apertures. This more detailed description of DCB and VCB anatomy will hopefully facilitate successful treatment of their disorders. Ethical animal research:?Research ethics committee oversight not currently required by this conference: the study was performed on material obtained from an abattoir. Source of funding:?None. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hewetson, M.
AU  - Sykes, B.W.
AU  - Hallowell, G.
AU  - Tulamo, R.M.
TI  - Diagnostic Accuracy of Blood Sucrose as a Screening Test for Diagnosis of Gastric Ulceration in Adult Horses
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_17
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_17
SP  - 8
EP  - 8
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study Gastric ulceration is an important cause of morbidity in horses. Currently, gastroscopy is the only reliable antemortem method for definitive diagnosis; however, it is unsuitable as a screening test because it is expensive, invasive and time-consuming. Sucrose permeability testing represents a simple, economical, non-invasive alternative to gastroscopy for screening purposes, and the feasibility of this approach in the horse has been reported [1]. Objectives To determine the diagnostic accuracy of blood sucrose as a screening test for gastric ulceration. Study design Cross-sectional design. Methods One hundred and one adult horses with and without naturally occurring gastric ulcers were studied. The diagnostic accuracy of blood sucrose for detection of gastric ulcers at 45 and 90?min after administration of 1?g/kg bwt of sucrose via nasogastric intubation was assessed with ROC curves and calculating the area under the curve (AUC). Sucrose concentration in blood was compared with gastroscopy as the gold standard; and sensitivities (Se) and specificities (Sp) were calculated across a range of sucrose concentrations. Cut-off values were selected manually to optimise sensitivity. Results The prevalence of gastric ulcers was 83%. The AUC?±?95% CI for blood sucrose concentration when used to distinguish between horses with and without gastric ulcers at 45 and 90?min was 0.592 (0.441?0.744) and 0.615 (0.469?0.761) respectively. Sucrose concentrations of 4.70??mol/l at 45?min; and 4.57??mol/l at 90?min were selected as optimal cut-offs. Using these cut-offs, Se ranged from 64.4% to 77%; and Sp ranged from 42.9% to 50%. Conclusions Blood sucrose is neither a sensitive nor specific test for detecting gastric ulcers in adult horses with naturally occurring ulcers. Acknowledgements We thank Sandy Love, Satu Sankari, Anna-Maija Virtala, Noah Cohen, Allen Rousell, Kaisa Aaltonen, Anne Sjöholm and Jouni Junnila. Ethical animal research:?The study protocol was approved by the National Animal Experiment Board of Finland (Eläinkoelautakunta ELLA). For client-owned animals, the informed consent of the owner was obtained. Source of funding:?This study was funded by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Helsinki, Finland. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Simons, V.
AU  - Weller, R.
AU  - Stubbs, N.C.
AU  - Rombach, N.
AU  - Pfau, T.
TI  - Objective Assessment of Back Kinematics and Movement Asymmetry in Horses: Effect of Elastic Resistance Band Training
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_23
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_23
SP  - 11
EP  - 11
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study Training and rehabilitation techniques which improve core muscle strength are beneficial for improvement of dynamic stability of the equine vertebral column. The Equiband? system, consisting of resistance bands attached to a customised saddle pad, is suggested to provide constant proprioceptive feedback during motion to encourage recruitment of abdominal and hindquarter musculature. Objectives To quantify the effect of the Equiband? system on back kinematics and movement symmetry. Study design Longitudinal intervention study. Methods Quantitative analysis of back movement and gait symmetry before/after a 4-week exercise programme. Inertial sensor data was collected from 7 horses at Weeks 0 and 4 of a fixed exercise protocol. Analysis with and without the Equiband? system was completed at trot in hand on a hard surface, and for both reins on the lunge on a soft surface. Six back kinematic and 3 movement symmetry parameters were calculated according to published methods. Movement symmetry values were side-corrected to allow comparison between reins on the lunge. A mixed model (P<0.05) evaluated the effects of the Equiband? system over time, and trotting direction on back kinematic and movement symmetry parameters. Results The Equiband? system significantly reduced (all P<0.02) roll, pitch and mediolateral displacement in the cranial-mid thoracic region. Across all horses, back displacement and range of motion values were significantly greater (P<0.01) on the lunge than in a straight line, movement symmetry was consistent with having corrected all horses to be left-sided. Conclusion Preliminary results suggest the Equiband? system may aid dynamic stabilisation of the vertebral column. Ethical animal research:?This study was authorised by the Ethics and Welfare Committee of the Royal Veterinary College, London (URN Approval Number 1238). Written consent was obtained from the owner/keeper of each animal. Source of funding:?Royal Veterinary College. Competing interests:?N.C. Stubbs and N. Rombach developed the Equiband? system. The remaining authors have no competing interests.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Parkes, R.S.V.
AU  - Witte, T.H.
AU  - Pfau, T.
AU  - Weller, R.
TI  - An In Vitro Investigation of the Effect of Curve Running on Equine Distal Limb Tendon Strain
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_25
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_25
SP  - 11
EP  - 12
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study Horses run on curves during training and competition, and are often trotted in circles to assist lameness diagnosis. The effects of moving on a curve on tendon strain in the distal limb are not known. Objectives To investigate the effect of curve running on the tendons and ligaments of the equine distal limb. Study design Controlled experimental study. Methods Cadaver forelimbs from 6 Thoroughbred horses were loaded on a forceplate using a hydraulic ram. Limbs were loaded to 17?33?N/kg on a flat surface and with medial and lateral wooden wedges under the hoof to simulate curve running with the limb being on the inside and outside of a curve, respectively. Tendon length was measured for the superficial and deep digital flexor tendons (SDFT and DDFT), accessory ligament of the DDFT (ALDDFT), the suspensory ligament body (SL) and the medial and lateral suspensory ligament branches (SBM and SBL) using motion capture. A mixed effects model was used for data analysis. Results Under most loading conditions SL was under most strain and DDFT least. For a medial 15° wedge SDFT was under 0.4% greater load than SL (P?=?0.04). SBM was under 0.48% greater strain than SBL with a lateral 20° wedge (P?=?0.01), and SBL was under 1.37% greater strain than SBM with a medial 20° wedge (P<0.01). Conclusions Curve running leads to increasing and asymmetrical strain on the suspensory ligament branches. This difference is unlikely to be sufficient to cause injury, but may assist lameness diagnosis. Ethical animal research:?Research ethics committee oversight not currently required by this conference: the study was performed on material collected at an abattoir. Source of funding:?R. Parkes is undertaking a PhD funded by the Horserace Betting Levy Board. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Malton, R.
AU  - Nagy, A.
TI  - Diffusion of Radiodense Contrast Medium after A Mid-Pastern Ring Block
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_33
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_33
SP  - 15
EP  - 15
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study Diffusion of local anaesthetic solution after a mid-pastern ring block has not been investigated. Objectives To demonstrate potential distribution of local anaesthetic solution following injection of radiodense contrast medium as performed for a mid-pastern ring block. Study design Experimental. Methods Twelve mature horses were used. One and a half ml radiodense contrast medium was injected over the medial or lateral palmar digital nerve at the level of the proximal aspect of the ungular cartilages. A dorsal ring block was performed on the ipsilateral side, 1.5?cm proximal to the palpable palmar aspect of the proximal eminence of the middle phalanx, using 2 or 5?ml contrast medium. Both forelimbs were injected on 2 days (48 injections). Four standard radiographic views of the pastern were obtained immediately, 10 and 20?min after injections. Images were analysed subjectively and objectively. Results After dorsal injections the contrast medium was distributed in a diffuse patch over the ipsilateral half of the proximal phalanx (PP), extending proximally over the half of the length of PP in all limbs (greatest proximal extension: 89.0% of the length of PP [from distal] after 2?ml, 94.2% after 5?ml). There was significant proximal diffusion in the first 10?min after injection and significant dorsal diffusion between all time points (P<0.01). There was significant positive association between injected volume and the proximal extension of the dorsal contrast patch (P?=?0.01). The median dorsal diffusion was to the dorsal midline of PP; 5?ml contrast medium resulted in significantly greater dorsal diffusion than 2?ml (P<0.01). The dorsal and the palmar contrast patches did not merge. Conclusions Diffusion to the proximal aspect of P1 occurred even after injection of only 2?ml contrast medium. Fetlock region pain may be influenced by a mid-pastern ring block. Ethical animal research:?Written consent had been obtained from a representative of the horses' owner prior to starting the study. Source of funding:?None. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zandstra, G.J.
AU  - Wijnberg, I.D.
TI  - Evaluation of Several Screening Tests for Determination of the IgG Concentration of Foals with the Turbidimetric Immunoassay as Reference Method
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_4
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_4
SP  - 2
EP  - 3
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study The measurement of immunoglobulins is important in foals, as individuals with evidence of failure of passive transfer are at increased risk of infection and death during the first month of life. Objectives To identify which test is most suitable for determining the foal's IgG concentration as applied in practice. A distinction was made between hospitalised foals and healthy low risk foals in the field. Study design Prospective study including 46 foals <7 days old, divided into 4 groups based on age and health status. Sensitivity and specificity were calculated manually. Significance was set at P<0.05. Methods Several screening tests were compared to the IgG concentration measured by turbidimetric immunoassay: serum and plasma total protein, albumin and protein spectrum including gamma globulin concentration (GGC) measured by chemistry analyser, total protein by refractometer, glutaraldehyde coagulation test and a semi-quantitative enzyme immunoassay (SNAP). IBM SPSS Statistics 20A was used. A one-way ANOVA with a 95% confidence interval (CI) was used for determining significant differences among tests and between groups. Correlations between the turbidimetric immunoassay and the screening tests were calculated using linear regression with a 95% CI. Results Group differences were not found. The most accurate alternative test was the combination of total serum protein measured by a chemistry analyser (R 0.83) and GGC (R 0.84) with sensitivity and specificity of 79 and 100% and 95 and 93% respectively. A total serum protein of ≥49?g/l and a GGC of ≥6?g/l corresponded with an IgG concentration of ≥8?g/l. Conclusions According to this study, the most reliable alternative test suitable in a clinical setting for the determination of IgG concentration was measuring total serum protein by a chemistry analyser in combination with serum GGC. Ethical animal research:?The research was approved by the Animal Welfare Committee of Utrecht University (approval number 2012.II.05.078). Explicit owner informed consent for inclusion of animals in this study was not stated. Source of funding:?None. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gröndahl, G.
AU  - Båverud, V.
AU  - Ljung, H.
AU  - Melys, V.
AU  - Aspán, A.
AU  - Riihimäki, M.
TI  - Longitudinal Observations of Silent Carriers of Streptococcus Equi in A Swedish Yard
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_50
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_50
SP  - 22
EP  - 22
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study When managing strangles in horses, it is crucial to detect chronic infection with Streptococcus equi (SE), i.e. silent carriers. Objectives Evaluate diagnostics for SE carriers over time in a farm. Study design Longitudinal observational study. Methods Sixty-three Icelandic horses isolated on an island were studied 4 to 26 months after remission of acute strangles, including repeated clinical examination and collection of blood, nasopharyngeal lavage (NPL), and guttural pouch lavage (GPL) samples. Twenty-two horses were treated with penicillin locally and systemically. Serology for S.?equi was examined by iELISA [1]. Nasopharyngeal lavage and GPL samples were investigated for S.?equi and S.?zooepidemicus by real-time PCR [2]. Results Thirty-three per cent were SE carriers after 15 months, despite repeated penicillin treatment. In 16/18 carriers, GPL samples were PCR-positive, but not NPL samples, whereas the opposite was true in 2 horses. Several carriers with persistent aerocystitis were not detected by 3 consecutive NPL samples. Five of 18 carriers were seronegative (27.8%) at 15 months. Following conservative treatment, 7 of these 18 carriers were still carriers at 20 months, 8 were negative, and 3 were lost for sampling. Only GPL samples were positive at this point, and only 1/7 carriers were seropositive. Conclusions To detect chronic carriers of strangles, RT-PCR analysis from both GPL and NPL samples may be necessary. Serological screening at individual level often misses individual carriers in long-term cases. Ethical animal research:?The testing was approved by the Swedish Ethical Committee on Animal Experiments and horse owners gave their informed consent for inclusion of animals in the study. Source of funding:?The Swedish-Norwegian Foundation for Equine Research. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kalamanova, A.
AU  - Stringer, A.P.
AU  - Freeman, S.L.
AU  - Burford, J.H.
TI  - Investigating the Normal Management Regimens of Working Equids and Identifying Barriers to the Recognition and Treatment of Colic by Owners in Morocco
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 47
IS  - S48
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12486_9
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12486_9
SP  - 5
EP  - 5
PY  - 2015
AB  - Reasons for performing study Colic is a common reason for owners to seek veterinary treatment for their working equids in Morocco. There is no information available regarding cultural, religious or educational barriers to obtaining treatment or about the typical workload of these animals which may predispose them to colic. Objectives To characterise the typical workload and feeding regimens of working equids in Morocco; to characterise the ability of owners to recognise the clinical signs and causes of colic; and to identify specific barriers to the veterinary treatment of colic. Study design Questionnaire-based survey. Methods A standardised, structured questionnaire was administered, with the assistance of an Arabic speaking interpreter, to the owners of working equids presenting their animals to 2 centres run by SPANA (The Society for the Protection of Animals Abroad). Participation was voluntary and informed consent was obtained prior to the interview. Results All of the 102 participants that completed questionnaire were male. Ninety-eight owners used their animals for pulling carts, with 12% of animals working 7 days per week. 14% of animals were offered water by their owner once per day and 2% every other day. 25% of animals were loose and allowed free to feed unsupervised when not working. 29% of owners were not able to name any cause of colic and 25% did not recognise any clinical signs; only 12% associated colic with gastrointestinal pain. 83% of owners would not seek veterinary treatment due to financial constraints if free treatment at SPANA centres were not available. Conclusions Colic remains a common problem amongst working equids in Morocco. Improved knowledge of management factors associated with colic and how to recognise abdominal pain may reduce the incidence of colic and improve prognosis. The findings presented can be used to inform and develop owner education programmes. Ethical animal research:?The study was reviewed and approved by the Ethics Committee, School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham. Informed consent for participation in the study was obtained from all owners and was delivered in the native language. No details identifying the owner were recorded. Source of funding:?None. Competing interests:?None declared.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hanna, Fikry
TI  - Case study: three cats with SLE and erosive polyarthritis
JO  - Companion Animal
VL  - 18
IS  - 6
SN  - 1464-4630
UR  - https://doi.org/10.12968/coan.2013.18.6.256
DO  - doi:10.12968/coan.2013.18.6.256
SP  - 256
EP  - 263
KW  - Erosive polyarthritis
KW  - Cat
KW  - Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
PY  - 2013
AB  - Non-erosive polyarthritis is one of the most common clinical manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). SLE has not been well documented and is rarely diagnosed in cats. This article describes an unusual presentation of erosive polyarthritis with SLE in three cats restrospectively identified over a 14-year period. Historical, clinical, serological and radiographical and pathological aspects of these cases are discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cossarizza, Andrea
AU  - Chang, Hyun-Dong
AU  - Radbruch, Andreas
AU  - Acs, Andreas
AU  - Adam, Dieter
AU  - Adam-Klages, Sabine
AU  - Agace, William W.
AU  - Aghaeepour, Nima
AU  - Akdis, Mübeccel
AU  - Allez, Matthieu
AU  - Almeida, Larissa Nogueira
AU  - Alvisi, Giorgia
AU  - Anderson, Graham
AU  - Andrä, Immanuel
AU  - Annunziato, Francesco
AU  - Anselmo, Achille
AU  - Bacher, Petra
AU  - Baldari, Cosima T.
AU  - Bari, Sudipto
AU  - Barnaba, Vincenzo
AU  - Barros-Martins, Joana
AU  - Battistini, Luca
AU  - Bauer, Wolfgang
AU  - Baumgart, Sabine
AU  - Baumgarth, Nicole
AU  - Baumjohann, Dirk
AU  - Baying, Bianka
AU  - Bebawy, Mary
AU  - Becher, Burkhard
AU  - Beisker, Wolfgang
AU  - Benes, Vladimir
AU  - Beyaert, Rudi
AU  - Blanco, Alfonso
AU  - Boardman, Dominic A.
AU  - Bogdan, Christian
AU  - Borger, Jessica G.
AU  - Borsellino, Giovanna
AU  - Boulais, Philip E.
AU  - Bradford, Jolene A.
AU  - Brenner, Dirk
AU  - Brinkman, Ryan R.
AU  - Brooks, Anna E. S.
AU  - Busch, Dirk H.
AU  - Büscher, Martin
AU  - Bushnell, Timothy P.
AU  - Calzetti, Federica
AU  - Cameron, Garth
AU  - Cammarata, Ilenia
AU  - Cao, Xuetao
AU  - Cardell, Susanna L.
AU  - Casola, Stefano
AU  - Cassatella, Marco A.
AU  - Cavani, Andrea
AU  - Celada, Antonio
AU  - Chatenoud, Lucienne
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Pratip K.
AU  - Chow, Sue
AU  - Christakou, Eleni
AU  - Čičin-Šain, Luka
AU  - Clerici, Mario
AU  - Colombo, Federico S.
AU  - Cook, Laura
AU  - Cooke, Anne
AU  - Cooper, Andrea M.
AU  - Corbett, Alexandra J.
AU  - Cosma, Antonio
AU  - Cosmi, Lorenzo
AU  - Coulie, Pierre G.
AU  - Cumano, Ana
AU  - Cvetkovic, Ljiljana
AU  - Dang, Van Duc
AU  - Dang-Heine, Chantip
AU  - Davey, Martin S.
AU  - Davies, Derek
AU  - De Biasi, Sara
AU  - Del Zotto, Genny
AU  - Dela Cruz, Gelo Victoriano
AU  - Delacher, Michael
AU  - Della Bella, Silvia
AU  - Dellabona, Paolo
AU  - Deniz, Günnur
AU  - Dessing, Mark
AU  - Di Santo, James P.
AU  - Diefenbach, Andreas
AU  - Dieli, Francesco
AU  - Dolf, Andreas
AU  - Dörner, Thomas
AU  - Dress, Regine J.
AU  - Dudziak, Diana
AU  - Dustin, Michael
AU  - Dutertre, Charles-Antoine
AU  - Ebner, Friederike
AU  - Eckle, Sidonia B. G.
AU  - Edinger, Matthias
AU  - Eede, Pascale
AU  - Ehrhardt, Götz R.A.
AU  - Eich, Marcus
AU  - Engel, Pablo
AU  - Engelhardt, Britta
AU  - Erdei, Anna
AU  - Esser, Charlotte
AU  - Everts, Bart
AU  - Evrard, Maximilien
AU  - Falk, Christine S.
AU  - Fehniger, Todd A.
AU  - Felipo-Benavent, Mar
AU  - Ferry, Helen
AU  - Feuerer, Markus
AU  - Filby, Andrew
AU  - Filkor, Kata
AU  - Fillatreau, Simon
AU  - Follo, Marie
AU  - Förster, Irmgard
AU  - Foster, John
AU  - Foulds, Gemma A.
AU  - Frehse, Britta
AU  - Frenette, Paul S.
AU  - Frischbutter, Stefan
AU  - Fritzsche, Wolfgang
AU  - Galbraith, David W.
AU  - Gangaev, Anastasia
AU  - Garbi, Natalio
AU  - Gaudilliere, Brice
AU  - Gazzinelli, Ricardo T.
AU  - Geginat, Jens
AU  - Gerner, Wilhelm
AU  - Gherardin, Nicholas A.
AU  - Ghoreschi, Kamran
AU  - Gibellini, Lara
AU  - Ginhoux, Florent
AU  - Goda, Keisuke
AU  - Godfrey, Dale I.
AU  - Goettlinger, Christoph
AU  - González-Navajas, Jose M.
AU  - Goodyear, Carl S.
AU  - Gori, Andrea
AU  - Grogan, Jane L.
AU  - Grummitt, Daryl
AU  - Grützkau, Andreas
AU  - Haftmann, Claudia
AU  - Hahn, Jonas
AU  - Hammad, Hamida
AU  - Hämmerling, Günter
AU  - Hansmann, Leo
AU  - Hansson, Goran
AU  - Harpur, Christopher M.
AU  - Hartmann, Susanne
AU  - Hauser, Andrea
AU  - Hauser, Anja E.
AU  - Haviland, David L.
AU  - Hedley, David
AU  - Hernández, Daniela C.
AU  - Herrera, Guadalupe
AU  - Herrmann, Martin
AU  - Hess, Christoph
AU  - Höfer, Thomas
AU  - Hoffmann, Petra
AU  - Hogquist, Kristin
AU  - Holland, Tristan
AU  - Höllt, Thomas
AU  - Holmdahl, Rikard
AU  - Hombrink, Pleun
AU  - Houston, Jessica P.
AU  - Hoyer, Bimba F.
AU  - Huang, Bo
AU  - Huang, Fang-Ping
AU  - Huber, Johanna E.
AU  - Huehn, Jochen
AU  - Hundemer, Michael
AU  - Hunter, Christopher A.
AU  - Hwang, William Y. K.
AU  - Iannone, Anna
AU  - Ingelfinger, Florian
AU  - Ivison, Sabine M
AU  - Jäck, Hans-Martin
AU  - Jani, Peter K.
AU  - Jávega, Beatriz
AU  - Jonjic, Stipan
AU  - Kaiser, Toralf
AU  - Kalina, Tomas
AU  - Kamradt, Thomas
AU  - Kaufmann, Stefan H. E.
AU  - Keller, Baerbel
AU  - Ketelaars, Steven L. C.
AU  - Khalilnezhad, Ahad
AU  - Khan, Srijit
AU  - Kisielow, Jan
AU  - Klenerman, Paul
AU  - Knopf, Jasmin
AU  - Koay, Hui-Fern
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Kolls, Jay K.
AU  - Kong, Wan Ting
AU  - Kopf, Manfred
AU  - Korn, Thomas
AU  - Kriegsmann, Katharina
AU  - Kristyanto, Hendy
AU  - Kroneis, Thomas
AU  - Krueger, Andreas
AU  - Kühne, Jenny
AU  - Kukat, Christian
AU  - Kunkel, Désirée
AU  - Kunze-Schumacher, Heike
AU  - Kurosaki, Tomohiro
AU  - Kurts, Christian
AU  - Kvistborg, Pia
AU  - Kwok, Immanuel
AU  - Landry, Jonathan
AU  - Lantz, Olivier
AU  - Lanuti, Paola
AU  - LaRosa, Francesca
AU  - Lehuen, Agnès
AU  - LeibundGut-Landmann, Salomé
AU  - Leipold, Michael D.
AU  - Leung, Leslie Y.T.
AU  - Levings, Megan K.
AU  - Lino, Andreia C.
AU  - Liotta, Francesco
AU  - Litwin, Virginia
AU  - Liu, Yanling
AU  - Ljunggren, Hans-Gustaf
AU  - Lohoff, Michael
AU  - Lombardi, Giovanna
AU  - Lopez, Lilly
AU  - López-Botet, Miguel
AU  - Lovett-Racke, Amy E.
AU  - Lubberts, Erik
AU  - Luche, Herve
AU  - Ludewig, Burkhard
AU  - Lugli, Enrico
AU  - Lunemann, Sebastian
AU  - Maecker, Holden T.
AU  - Maggi, Laura
AU  - Maguire, Orla
AU  - Mair, Florian
AU  - Mair, Kerstin H.
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
AU  - Manz, Rudolf A.
AU  - Marshall, Aaron J.
AU  - Martínez-Romero, Alicia
AU  - Martrus, Glòria
AU  - Marventano, Ivana
AU  - Maslinski, Wlodzimierz
AU  - Matarese, Giuseppe
AU  - Mattioli, Anna Vittoria
AU  - Maueröder, Christian
AU  - Mazzoni, Alessio
AU  - McCluskey, James
AU  - McGrath, Mairi
AU  - McGuire, Helen M.
AU  - McInnes, Iain B.
AU  - Mei, Henrik E.
AU  - Melchers, Fritz
AU  - Melzer, Susanne
AU  - Mielenz, Dirk
AU  - Miller, Stephen D.
AU  - Mills, Kingston H.G.
AU  - Minderman, Hans
AU  - Mjösberg, Jenny
AU  - Moore, Jonni
AU  - Moran, Barry
AU  - Moretta, Lorenzo
AU  - Mosmann, Tim R.
AU  - Müller, Susann
AU  - Multhoff, Gabriele
AU  - Muñoz, Luis Enrique
AU  - Münz, Christian
AU  - Nakayama, Toshinori
AU  - Nasi, Milena
AU  - Neumann, Katrin
AU  - Ng, Lai Guan
AU  - Niedobitek, Antonia
AU  - Nourshargh, Sussan
AU  - Núñez, Gabriel
AU  - O'Connor, José-Enrique
AU  - Ochel, Aaron
AU  - Oja, Anna
AU  - Ordonez, Diana
AU  - Orfao, Alberto
AU  - Orlowski-Oliver, Eva
AU  - Ouyang, Wenjun
AU  - Oxenius, Annette
AU  - Palankar, Raghavendra
AU  - Panse, Isabel
AU  - Pattanapanyasat, Kovit
AU  - Paulsen, Malte
AU  - Pavlinic, Dinko
AU  - Penter, Livius
AU  - Peterson, Pärt
AU  - Peth, Christian
AU  - Petriz, Jordi
AU  - Piancone, Federica
AU  - Pickl, Winfried F.
AU  - Piconese, Silvia
AU  - Pinti, Marcello
AU  - Pockley, A. Graham
AU  - Podolska, Malgorzata Justyna
AU  - Poon, Zhiyong
AU  - Pracht, Katharina
AU  - Prinz, Immo
AU  - Pucillo, Carlo E. M.
AU  - Quataert, Sally A.
AU  - Quatrini, Linda
AU  - Quinn, Kylie M.
AU  - Radbruch, Helena
AU  - Radstake, Tim R. D. J.
AU  - Rahmig, Susann
AU  - Rahn, Hans-Peter
AU  - Rajwa, Bartek
AU  - Ravichandran, Gevitha
AU  - Raz, Yotam
AU  - Rebhahn, Jonathan A.
AU  - Recktenwald, Diether
AU  - Reimer, Dorothea
AU  - Reis e Sousa, Caetano
AU  - Remmerswaal, Ester B.M.
AU  - Richter, Lisa
AU  - Rico, Laura G.
AU  - Riddell, Andy
AU  - Rieger, Aja M.
AU  - Robinson, J. Paul
AU  - Romagnani, Chiara
AU  - Rubartelli, Anna
AU  - Ruland, Jürgen
AU  - Saalmüller, Armin
AU  - Saeys, Yvan
AU  - Saito, Takashi
AU  - Sakaguchi, Shimon
AU  - Sala-de-Oyanguren, Francisco
AU  - Samstag, Yvonne
AU  - Sanderson, Sharon
AU  - Sandrock, Inga
AU  - Santoni, Angela
AU  - Sanz, Ramon Bellmàs
AU  - Saresella, Marina
AU  - Sautes-Fridman, Catherine
AU  - Sawitzki, Birgit
AU  - Schadt, Linda
AU  - Scheffold, Alexander
AU  - Scherer, Hans U.
AU  - Schiemann, Matthias
AU  - Schildberg, Frank A.
AU  - Schimisky, Esther
AU  - Schlitzer, Andreas
AU  - Schlosser, Josephine
AU  - Schmid, Stephan
AU  - Schmitt, Steffen
AU  - Schober, Kilian
AU  - Schraivogel, Daniel
AU  - Schuh, Wolfgang
AU  - Schüler, Thomas
AU  - Schulte, Reiner
AU  - Schulz, Axel Ronald
AU  - Schulz, Sebastian R.
AU  - Scottá, Cristiano
AU  - Scott-Algara, Daniel
AU  - Sester, David P.
AU  - Shankey, T. Vincent
AU  - Silva-Santos, Bruno
AU  - Simon, Anna Katharina
AU  - Sitnik, Katarzyna M.
AU  - Sozzani, Silvano
AU  - Speiser, Daniel E.
AU  - Spidlen, Josef
AU  - Stahlberg, Anders
AU  - Stall, Alan M.
AU  - Stanley, Natalie
AU  - Stark, Regina
AU  - Stehle, Christina
AU  - Steinmetz, Tobit
AU  - Stockinger, Hannes
AU  - Takahama, Yousuke
AU  - Takeda, Kiyoshi
AU  - Tan, Leonard
AU  - Tárnok, Attila
AU  - Tiegs, Gisa
AU  - Toldi, Gergely
AU  - Tornack, Julia
AU  - Traggiai, Elisabetta
AU  - Trebak, Mohamed
AU  - Tree, Timothy I.M.
AU  - Trotter, Joe
AU  - Trowsdale, John
AU  - Tsoumakidou, Maria
AU  - Ulrich, Henning
AU  - Urbanczyk, Sophia
AU  - van de Veen, Willem
AU  - van den Broek, Maries
AU  - van der Pol, Edwin
AU  - Van Gassen, Sofie
AU  - Van Isterdael, Gert
AU  - van Lier, René A.W.
AU  - Veldhoen, Marc
AU  - Vento-Asturias, Salvador
AU  - Vieira, Paulo
AU  - Voehringer, David
AU  - Volk, Hans-Dieter
AU  - von Borstel, Anouk
AU  - von Volkmann, Konrad
AU  - Waisman, Ari
AU  - Walker, Rachael V.
AU  - Wallace, Paul K.
AU  - Wang, Sa A.
AU  - Wang, Xin M.
AU  - Ward, Michael D.
AU  - Ward-Hartstonge, Kirsten A
AU  - Warnatz, Klaus
AU  - Warnes, Gary
AU  - Warth, Sarah
AU  - Waskow, Claudia
AU  - Watson, James V.
AU  - Watzl, Carsten
AU  - Wegener, Leonie
AU  - Weisenburger, Thomas
AU  - Wiedemann, Annika
AU  - Wienands, Jürgen
AU  - Wilharm, Anneke
AU  - Wilkinson, Robert John
AU  - Willimsky, Gerald
AU  - Wing, James B.
AU  - Winkelmann, Rieke
AU  - Winkler, Thomas H.
AU  - Wirz, Oliver F.
AU  - Wong, Alicia
AU  - Wurst, Peter
AU  - Yang, Jennie H. M.
AU  - Yang, Juhao
AU  - Yazdanbakhsh, Maria
AU  - Yu, Liping
AU  - Yue, Alice
AU  - Zhang, Hanlin
AU  - Zhao, Yi
AU  - Ziegler, Susanne Maria
AU  - Zielinski, Christina
AU  - Zimmermann, Jakob
AU  - Zychlinsky, Arturo
TI  - Guidelines for the use of flow cytometry and cell sorting in immunological studies (second edition)
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 10
SN  - 0014-2980
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201970107
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201970107
SP  - 1457
EP  - 1973
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract These guidelines are a consensus work of a considerable number of members of the immunology and flow cytometry community. They provide the theory and key practical aspects of flow cytometry enabling immunologists to avoid the common errors that often undermine immunological data. Notably, there are comprehensive sections of all major immune cell types with helpful Tables detailing phenotypes in murine and human cells. The latest flow cytometry techniques and applications are also described, featuring examples of the data that can be generated and, importantly, how the data can be analysed. Furthermore, there are sections detailing tips, tricks and pitfalls to avoid, all written and peer-reviewed by leading experts in the field, making this an essential research companion.
ER  - 
