
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Xu, Qiu-lin
AU  - Guo, Xiao-hua
AU  - Liu, Jing-xian
AU  - Chen, Bin
AU  - Liu, Zhi-feng
AU  - Su, Lei
TI  - Blockage of protease-activated receptor 1 ameliorates heat-stress induced intestinal high permeability and bacterial translocation
JO  - Cell Biology International
JA  - Cell Biol Int
VL  - 39
IS  - 4
SN  - 1065-6995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cbin.10408
DO  - doi:10.1002/cbin.10408
SP  - 411
EP  - 417
KW  - bacterial translocation
KW  - endotoxemia
KW  - heatstroke
KW  - intestinal injury
KW  - protease-activated receptor 1
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Accumulated evidences indicate intestinal lesions play an important role in the pathogenesis of heatstroke. However, the underlying mechanisms by which heat stress causes intestinal barrier dysfunction and bacterial translocation remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR1) in heat stress-induced intestinal hyper-permeability and bacterial translocation. Intestinal permeability in heat stressed mouse was evaluated by determining plasma endotoxin concentration and urinal lactulose/mannitol (L/M) ratio with gastric administration of L/M solution. Venous blood, liver, spleen and mesenteric lymph node tissues were collected for bacterial load test. Real time PCR was used to determine ileum PAR1 mRNA expression. In vitro study, permeability was assessed by determining trans-epithelial electrical resistance (TEER) in human intestinal Caco-2 cell line. RWJ-58259, a selective antagonist of PAR1, was used both in vivo and in vitro studies. The results showed that heat stress could increase ileum PAR1 mRNA level, urinal L/M ratio, plasma endotoxin concentration and bacterial load in the blood, spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes. Blocking PAR1 with RWJ-58259 (10?mg/kg) pretreatment could significantly reduce heat stress-induced above changes, but have no role to PAR1 mRNA level. In Caco-2 cells, heat stress-induced high permeability could also be reduced by RWJ-58259 (5?20?µmol/L). In summary, our results demonstrated that PAR1 signaling pathway may play an important role in the heat stress-induced elevation of intestinal permeability, bacterial translocation and the occurrence of endotoxemia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Alghamdi, Abdullah A.
AU  - Moussa, Fuad
AU  - Fremes, Stephen E.
TI  - Does the Use of Preoperative Aspirin Increase the Risk of Bleeding in Patients Undergoing Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Surgery? Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis
JO  - Journal of Cardiac Surgery
VL  - 22
IS  - 3
SN  - 0886-0440
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-8191.2007.00402.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1540-8191.2007.00402.x
SP  - 247
EP  - 256
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract? Background: The traditional recommendation has been to stop Aspirin seven to 10 days prior to coronary artery bypass surgery to reduce the potential risk of bleeding. A few reports have shown that Aspirin did not increase the risk of bleeding and may be beneficial to be continued until the time of surgery. The objective of this review was to evaluate the effect of preoperative Aspirin on bleeding in patients undergoing elective bypass surgery. Methods: A meta-analysis of 10 randomized and nonrandomized studies reporting comparisons between Aspirin and control was undertaken. The primary outcome was the total amount of postoperative chest tube drainage. Secondary outcomes were the number of units of packed red blood cell transfusion, platelet transfusion, fresh frozen plasma transfusion, and number of patients reexplored for bleeding. Results: Ten studies, involving 1748 patients, met the inclusion criteria for this review of whom 913 were in the Aspirin group and 835 were in the control group. Pooling the results of all studies showed a significant increase in blood loss and transfusion of red blood cells and fresh frozen plasma in the Aspirin group (p < 0.05). There was no significant difference between the two groups in the rate of platelet transfusion, or the incidence of reexploration (p > 0.05). Included studies were heterogeneous and of low methodological quality. Conclusion: Aspirin is associated with increased chest tube drainage and may be associated with a greater requirement for blood products. High-quality prospective studies are warranted to reassess the effect of Aspirin on important postoperative outcomes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Park, Karen M.
AU  - Grimes, Janet A.
AU  - Wallace, Mandy L.
AU  - Sterman, Allyson A.
AU  - Thieman Mankin, Kelley M.
AU  - Campbell, Bonnie G.
AU  - Flannery, Erin E.
AU  - Milovancev, Milan
AU  - Mathews, Kyle G.
AU  - Schmiedt, Chad W.
TI  - Lung lobe torsion in dogs: 52 cases (2005–2017)
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 47
IS  - 8
SN  - 0161-3499
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.13108
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.13108
SP  - 1002
EP  - 1008
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Objective To report outcomes and risk factors for mortality in dogs that underwent surgical management of lung lobe torsion. Study design Retrospective case series from 5 veterinary teaching hospitals (2005?2017). Animals Fifty dogs with 52 instances of lung lobe torsion. Methods Data collected from medical records included signalment, clinical findings, results of clinicopathologic testing and diagnostic imaging, surgical treatment, lung lobe affected, intraoperative and postoperative complications, histopathologic and microbiologic findings, and outcome. Follow-up was obtained from medical records and telephone contact with primary care veterinarians. Results Fifty-two instances of lung lobe torsion were identified in 50 dogs, with a median follow-up of 453?days (range, 0?3075). Forty-six (92%) dogs survived to discharge. Dogs with concurrent torsion of the right cranial and middle lung lobes were less likely to survive (2/4) than those with torsion of the left cranial lung lobe (22/22). No other risk factors for mortality prior to hospital discharge were identified. Overall median survival time after hospital discharge was 1369?days. Four dogs had >1 episode of lung lobe torsion. Conclusion The percentage of dogs surviving to discharge after surgical treatment of lung lobe torsion was higher than previously reported. The short- and long-term prognosis was excellent with surgical treatment of lung lobe torsion. Clinical significance Surgery should be recommended when lung lobe torsion is suspected because of the high survival to discharge rate and excellent long-term prognosis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Järvinen, T. A. H.
AU  - Kannus, P.
AU  - Järvinen, T. L. N.
AU  - Jozsa, L.
AU  - Kalimo, H.
AU  - Järvinen, M.
TI  - Tenascin-C in the pathobiology and healing process of musculoskeletal tissue injury
JO  - Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports
VL  - 10
IS  - 6
SN  - 0905-7188
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1034/j.1600-0838.2000.010006376.x
DO  - doi:10.1034/j.1600-0838.2000.010006376.x
SP  - 376
EP  - 382
PY  - 2000
AB  - Tenascin-C (TN-C) is a hexabrachion-shaped extracellular matrix (ECM) protein which has very restricted expression in normal musculoskeletal tissues, but is expressed in large quantities in these tissues during embryogenesis as well as during regenerative and healing processes. TN-C is an elastic protein which has a number of binding sites for other extracellular matrix proteins as well as for cell membrane adhesion receptors. In addition, it can be stretched to several times its resting length, the ability of which is attributed to the stretch-induced unfolding of its fibronectin type III domains. In the musculoskeletal tissues, TN-C is present in the regions where high mechanical forces are transmitted from one tissue component to another, such as the myotendinous and osteotendinous junctions. Not surprisingly, it was recently presented that the expression of TN-C in the musculoskeletal tissues is regulated by the mechanical strain applied to their cells. Thus, taking into account the flexible structure of the TN-C and its site-specific expression pattern at sites exposed to heavy mechanical loads, TN-C is likely to play an important role in providing elasticity to the musculoskeletal tissues. This feature has a special significance in the degenerative and regenerative processes where the normal biomechanical environment of the musculoskeletal tissue is temporarily interrupted by injury. The rapidly increasing understanding of the structure and function of the ECM protein TN-C may well bring important insights into the clinical treatment of sports injuries in the future.
ER  - 

AU  - Uhde, Thomas W.
AU  - Singareddy, Ravi
C7  - pp. 237-286
TI  - Biological Research in Anxiety Disorders
SN  - 9780471496564
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/0470846461.ch8
DO  - doi:10.1002/0470846461.ch8
SP  - 237-286
KW  - anxiety
KW  - panic
KW  - generalized anxiety
KW  - post traumatic stress disorder
KW  - obsessive-compulsive disorder
PY  - 2000
AB  - Summary The study of stress, fear and anxiety was the major focus of research among the early neuroscientists interested in behaviour. This is not surprising because fear, anxiety and alarm play a fundamental role in survival. Thus, research investigating the phenomenology and neurobiology of anxiety, fear, startle, arousal, alarm, vigilance and alerting functions has been conducted for decades. This chapter provides an overview of panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and post traumatic stress disorder. These anxiety disorders were selected because each of them has an extensive base of knowledge in two or more of the following areas: neurochemistry, neuroendocrinology or neuroimmunology, and neurophysiology.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sellon, Debra C.
TI  - Thrombocytopenia in horses
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 10
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780471496564
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3292.1998.tb00865.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3292.1998.tb00865.x
SP  - 133
EP  - 139
PY  - 1998
ER  - 

AU  - Greenwald, Peter W.
AU  - Weingart, Scott
AU  - Nguyen, H. Bryant
C7  - pp. 235-250
TI  - Severe Sepsis and Septic Shock
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444303674.ch23
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444303674.ch23
SP  - 235-250
KW  - severe sepsis and septic shock
KW  - Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS)
KW  - Severe sepsis is sepsis associated with organ dysfunction
KW  - recombinant human activated protein C (rhAPC) administration
KW  - Multiple Organ Dysfunction Score (MODS)
KW  - Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE)
KW  - Mortality probability models (MPM) II and III
KW  - vasopressor use in severe sepsis and septic shock
KW  - CORTICUS trial and Annane study
PY  - 1998
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Case scenario Background Clinical questions General search strategy Critical review of the literature Conclusions Acknowledgments References
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 501-526
TI  - Index
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119317913.index
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119317913.index
SP  - 501-526
PY  - 1998
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zimmermann, Elizabeth A.
AU  - Ritchie, Robert O.
TI  - Bone as a Structural Material
JO  - Advanced Healthcare Materials
JA  - Adv. Healthcare Mater.
VL  - 4
IS  - 9
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adhm.201500070
DO  - doi:10.1002/adhm.201500070
SP  - 1287
EP  - 1304
KW  - cortical bone
KW  - strength
KW  - toughness
KW  - aging
KW  - disease
PY  - 2015
AB  - As one of the most important natural materials, cortical bone is a composite material comprising assemblies of tropocollagen molecules and nanoscale hydroxyapatite mineral crystals, forming an extremely tough, yet lightweight, adaptive and multi-functional material. Bone has evolved to provide structural support to organisms, and therefore its mechanical properties are vital physiologically. Like many mineralized tissues, bone can resist deformation and fracture from the nature of its hierarchical structure, which spans molecular to macroscopic length-scales. In fact, bone derives its fracture resistance with a multitude of deformation and toughening mechanisms that are active at most of these dimensions. It is shown that bone's strength and ductility originate primarily at the scale of the nano to submicrometer structure of its mineralized collagen fibrils and fibers, whereas bone toughness is additionally generated at much larger, micro- to near-millimeter, scales from crack-tip shielding associated with interactions between the crack path and the microstructure. It is further shown how the effectiveness with which bone's structural features can resist fracture at small to large length-scales can become degraded by biological factors such as aging and disease, which affect such features as the collagen cross-linking environment, the homogeneity of mineralization, and the density of the osteonal structures.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - SIDDIQ, S.
AU  - CLARK, A.
AU  - MUMFORD, A.
TI  - A systematic review of the management and outcomes of pregnancy in Glanzmann thrombasthenia
JO  - Haemophilia
VL  - 17
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2516.2011.02516.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2516.2011.02516.x
SP  - e858
EP  - e869
KW  - alloimmunization
KW  - Glanzmann thrombasthenia
KW  - postpartum haemorrhage
KW  - pregnancy
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary.? Glanzmann Thrombasthenia (GT) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder which usually manifests as severe mucocutaneous bleeding and is caused by deficiency of the platelet glycoprotein IIb-IIIa. Pregnancy in women with GT presents particular challenges as there is increased risk of both maternal and foetal bleeding. To improve understanding and clarify the optimum management of pregnancy in this disorder, we performed a systematic review of the world literature of pregnancy and GT. This identified three single-centre case series of patients with GT that included brief descriptions of women in pregnancy and 31 detailed case reports of 40 pregnancies in 35 women that resulted in 38 live births. Among the detailed case reports, ante-natal bleeding was described in 50% of pregnancies but was usually mild and occurred at mucocutaneous sites. Primary postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) was reported in 34% of pregnancies and secondary PPH in 24%. PPH was frequently severe and occurred up to 20?days after delivery. There was a wide variation in approach to prevention and treatment of PPH but most women received platelet transfusion, sometimes with additional recombinant FVIIa and anti-fibrinolytics. Maternal alloimmunization against platelet antigens was reported in 73% of pregnancies and was associated with four neonatal deaths. These data emphasize the need for multidisciplinary management of pregnancy in women with GT. Delivery plans should recognize the need for prevention and aggressive treatment of PPH and should minimize foetal bleeding risk in pregnancies complicated by alloimmunization.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Asai, T.
AU  - Inaba, S.
AU  - Ohto, H.
AU  - Osada, K.
AU  - Suzuki, G.
AU  - Takahashi, K.
AU  - Tadokoro, K.
AU  - Minami, M.
TI  - Guidelines for irradiation of blood and blood components to prevent post-transfusion graft-vs.-host disease in Japan
JO  - Transfusion Medicine
VL  - 10
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-3148.2000.00264.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1365-3148.2000.00264.x
SP  - 315
EP  - 320
KW  - blood irradiation
KW  - guidelines
KW  - GVHD
KW  - prevention
KW  - PT-GVHD
PY  - 2000
AB  - . The Japanese Red Cross analysed the results of questionnaires sent in 1993 regarding post-transfusion graft-vs.-host disease (PT-GVHD) from hospitals; the majority of patients with PT-GVHD in 1993 were transfused for cardiovascular or cancer surgery, and about 10 patients had died yearly from PT-GVHD in the following few years. The Japan Society of Blood Transfusion (JSBT) organized a subcommittee for the prevention of PT-GVHD, and issued a fourth version of guidelines for the irradiation of blood to prevent PT-GVHD. These guidelines recommended transfusion of irradiated blood for cardiosurgery, cancer surgery, elderly recipients and severe trauma, as well as congenital immunodeficient recipients, newborn infants and other immunocompromised patients. Also recommended was irradiation not only of blood within 72?h after collection but also of blood stored for 14?days. Reported PT-GVHD has diminished to a few cases in recent years.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - MCLINTOCK, C.
AU  - JAMES, A. H.
TI  - Obstetric hemorrhage
JO  - Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis
VL  - 9
IS  - 8
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1538-7836.2011.04398.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1538-7836.2011.04398.x
SP  - 1441
EP  - 1451
KW  - hemorrhage
KW  - obstetric
KW  - postpartum
KW  - severe
KW  - transfusion
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary.? An obstetric hemorrhage may occur before or after delivery, but more than 80% of cases occur postpartum. Worldwide, a massive obstetric hemorrhage, resulting from the failure of normal obstetrical, surgical and/or systemic hemostasis, is responsible for 25% of the estimated 358?000 maternal deaths each year. Most women will not have identifiable risk factors. Nonetheless, primary prevention of a postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) begins with an assessment of identifiable risk factors. Women identified as being at high risk of a PPH should be delivered in a center with access to adequately trained staff and an onsite blood bank. A critical feature of a massive hemorrhage in obstetrics is the development of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), which, in contrast to DIC that develops with hemorrhage from surgery or trauma, is frequently an early feature. Data from clinical trials to guide management of transfusion in PPH are lacking. There are likely to be similarities in the management of transfusion in severe PPH to that of major bleeding in other clinical situations, but the pathophysiological processes that contribute to a massive PPH may necessitate different transfusion strategies such as the ratio of red blood cells to plasma components, in particular fibrinogen. Caution should be exercised when considering the appropriate place for recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) in the management of a major PPH. An early hysterectomy is recommended for severe bleeding as a result of placenta accreta or uterine rupture. However, in women with uterine atony who have ongoing bleeding in spite of an adequate transfusion, it may be reasonable to consider a trial of rFVIIa before a hysterectomy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Das, Anirban
AU  - Bansal, Deepak
AU  - Ahluwalia, Jasmina
AU  - Das, Reena
AU  - Rohit, Manoj K.
AU  - Attri, Savita V.
AU  - Trehan, Amita
AU  - Marwaha, Ram K.
TI  - Risk factors for thromboembolism and pulmonary artery hypertension following splenectomy in children with hereditary spherocytosis
JO  - Pediatric Blood & Cancer
JA  - Pediatr Blood Cancer
VL  - 61
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pbc.24766
DO  - doi:10.1002/pbc.24766
SP  - 29
EP  - 33
KW  - C-reactive protein
KW  - echocardiography
KW  - hemolytic anemia
KW  - low-density lipoprotein
KW  - spleen
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Background The aim was to study risk-factors for vascular thrombosis and incidence of pulmonary artery hypertension (PAH) in splenectomized children with hereditary spherocytosis (HS) at a single center. Procedure Pre- and post-splenectomy hemoglobin and platelet counts were recorded. Post-splenectomy lipid-profile, fibrinogen, D-dimer, CRP and anti-coagulant-protein levels were compared to established controls. Echo-Doppler was performed for PAH. Results Twenty-six children with HS had undergone splenectomy; the mean age at surgery was 7.9?±?3.7 years. Nineteen of the 26 were prospectively investigated at a median duration of 4.5 years (range: 4 months to 19 years) following splenectomy. Thrombocytosis was observed in 19 (73%), whereas no patient had erythrocytosis at the last follow-up visit. Total cholesterol, LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglyceride levels were not deranged (P?≥?0.3). Mean CRP levels (males: 2.8?±?0.5; females: 2.1?±?0.5?mg/L) were significantly higher than described for normal children (P?<?0.001). Six (23%) patients had a positive D-dimer assay. Protein S, anti-thrombin-III and fibrinogen were in range. A single patient had a borderline low protein C activity. Lupus anticoagulant and anti-cardiolipin antibody assays were negative. The mean tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity (TRJV) was 1.8?±?0.55?meter per second (range: 0?2.4). None had a TRJV ≥2.5?meter per second to suggest PAH. Conclusions There was no evidence of PAH, dyslipidemia, elevation of fibrinogen or a reduction in anti-coagulant proteins, at a median follow-up duration of 4.5 years following splenectomy in children with HS. However, elevated CRP level (42%), persistent thrombocytosis (73%) and elevated D-dimer levels (23%) were observed. These have been recognized as risk factors for cerebrovascular and coronary heart disease. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2014;61:29?33. ? 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lu, Gang
AU  - Huang, Sha
TI  - Bioengineered skin substitutes: key elements and novel design for biomedical applications
JO  - International Wound Journal
VL  - 10
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-481X.2012.01105.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1742-481X.2012.01105.x
SP  - 365
EP  - 371
KW  - Biomaterials
KW  - Cell
KW  - Engineered skin substitutes
KW  - Growth factors
KW  - Model
PY  - 2013
AB  - Significant progress has been made in the development of in vitro-engineered skin substitutes that mimic human skin, either to be used for the replacement of lost skin or for the establishment of in vitro skin research models. However, at the present time, there are no models of bioengineered skin that completely replicate the nature of uninjured skin. Obviously, there is still much room for improvement of the components of bioengineered skin and their interplay. This review summarises the important new discoveries in key elements of engineering of tissue-engineered skin including cell sources, biomaterials and growth factors, etc. Furthermore, basic and clinical applications for engineered skin substitutes in cell therapy, tissue engineering, and biomedical research continue to drive design improvements premised on these structure and function-based engineering paradigms.
ER  - 

AU  - Dunn, Marilyn E.
AU  - Weisse, Chick
C7  - pp. 464-478
TI  - Thrombectomy and Thrombolysis
SN  - 9781118378281
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118910924.ch47
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118910924.ch47
SP  - 464-478
KW  - arterial thrombosis
KW  - cats
KW  - central venous thrombosis
KW  - dogs
KW  - interventional radiology approach
KW  - ischemia–reperfusion injury
KW  - pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE)
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary This chapter describes minimally invasive treatments for thrombosis including a multimodality approach centered on interventional radiology, antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy, and thrombolytics. Thrombolytic drugs target the clot directly by accelerating fibrinolysis. Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), streptokinase, and urokinase have been administered intravenously in cats and dogs with thrombosis with variable success. The chapter also talks about clinical signs, diagnostics, intervention, and long-term therapy of central venous thrombosis, arterial thrombosis, ischemia?reperfusion injury, and pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE) in dogs and cats. Treatment of venous thrombi must be based upon consideration of the overall clot burden and extent, the resulting clinical signs associated with the venous obstruction, and the ability to control the underlying cause of the clot if it is identified. Echocardiography is an easily accessible modality useful in confirming a thrombus in the proximal pulmonary artery. Angiography, contrast-enhanced CT and MRI are also useful modalities in confirming and locating the PTE.
ER  - 

AU  - Venkat, K. K.
AU  - Venkat, Arvind
C7  - pp. 74-95
TI  - The End-Stage Renal Disease Patient on Dialysis
SN  - 9780470655009
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119971603.ch5
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119971603.ch5
SP  - 74-95
KW  - Dialysis
KW  - emergency department
KW  - end-stage renal disease
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary The end-stage renal disease patient on dialysis is susceptible to a variety of emergent medical problems. This chapter reviews the disorders that bring these patients to the emergency department (ED) and the special considerations in their diagnostic evaluation and initial management. The care of these patients is very complex and close collaboration between the emergency physician and the nephrology team is mandatory.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - JOCHLE, W.
AU  - MOORE, J. N.
AU  - BROWN, J.
AU  - BAKER, G. J.
AU  - LOWE, J. E.
AU  - FUBINI, S.
AU  - REEVES, M. J.
AU  - WATKINS, J. P.
AU  - WHITE, N. A.
TI  - Comparison of detomidine, butorphanol, flunixin meglumine and xylazine in clinical cases of equine colic
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 21
IS  - S7
SN  - 9780470655009
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1989.tb05668.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1989.tb05668.x
SP  - 111
EP  - 116
PY  - 1989
AB  - Summary Detomidine hydrochloride, butorphanol tartrate, flunixin meglumine and xylazine hydrochloride were evaluated in a blind multi-centre clinical trial in 152 horses with abdominal pain. The drugs were administered as follows: detomidine 20 or 40 ?g/kg bodyweight (bwt); butorphanol 0.1 mg/kg bwt; flunixin meglumine 1.0 mg/kg bwt; xylazine hydrochloride 0.5 mg/kg bwt. Each centre compared responses to the two doses of detomidine with those to one of the other analgesics. The drugs were administered intravenously (iv) after clinical assessment of the degree of sweating, kicking, pawing, head and body movement, attitude, lip curling, stretching to urinate, pulse rate, respiratory rate and rectal temperature. Similar assessments were repeated at 15 min intervals for at least 1 h. The investigators ranked the response to treatment from ?not satisfactory? to ?highly satisfactory?. Significant differences in sweating, kicking, pawing, head and body movement, attitude, pulse rate and respiratory rate were noted between the horses receiving butorphanol and either dose of detomidine. The investigators' subjective evaluation of the analgesic and sedative effects of either dose of detomidine were significantly better than for butorphanol. Analgesia was rated as highly satisfactory or satisfactory in 93.3 per cent and 6.7 per cent of the horses receiving 40 ?g/kg bwt of detomidine, 73.3 per cent and 26.7 per cent of the horses receiving 20 ?g/kg bwt of detomidine, and none of the horses receiving butorphanol. There were no differences in the incidence of side effects with the two compounds. Significant differences were noted in kicking, pawing, head and body movement and attitude between the horses receiving flunixin meglumine and either dose of detomidine. Flunixin meglumine provided significantly less analgesia than either dose of detomidine. Analgesia was rated as highly satisfactory or satisfactory in 73.7 per cent and 21.0 per cent of the horses receiving 40 ?g/kg bwt of detomidine, 42.9 per cent and 21.4 per cent of the horses receiving 20 ?g/kg bwt of detomidine, and 6.3 per cent and 37.5 per cent of the horses receiving xylazine. Sedation was considered to be at least satisfactory in 84.2 per cent of the horses receiving 40 ?g/kg of detomidine, 71.5 per cent of the horses receiving 20 ?g/kg of detomidine and 53.3 per cent of the horses receiving xylazine.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Garcia, Angelica
AU  - Yi, Nam-Joon
AU  - Lee, Kyoung Bun
AU  - Lee, Jeong-Moo
AU  - Choi, Young Rok
AU  - Suh, Suk-Won
AU  - You, Tae
AU  - Lee, Kwang-Woong
AU  - Park, June Dong
AU  - Kang, Hyoung Jin
AU  - Kim, Joon Gon
AU  - Kang, Eun Kyeong
AU  - Hong, Geun
AU  - Suh, Kyung-Suk
TI  - Fulminant hepatitis linked to dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome requiring urgent living donor liver transplantation: A case report
JO  - Pediatric Transplantation
JA  - Pediatr Transplantation
VL  - 18
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780470655009
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/petr.12343
DO  - doi:10.1111/petr.12343
SP  - E240
EP  - E245
KW  - fulminant hepatitis
KW  - dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome
KW  - liver transplant
KW  - pigmented purpuric dermatosis
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Dapsone is a sulfone-type drug used widely for different infectious, immune, and hypersensitivity disorders as an antibacterial treatment alone or in combination for leprosy and sometimes for infected skin lesions. DHS is a severe idiosyncratic adverse reaction with multi-organ involvement. However, acute necrotic hepatitis requiring an emergent LT is rare. Herein, we report a case of 12-yr-old girl who suffered from fulminant hepatitis and multi-organ failure due to DHS for PPD. She was saved by emergent LDLT. A high index of suspicion and rapid diagnosis are necessary not to miss this potentially lethal but rare disease.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ghosh, K. 
AU  - Shetty, S. 
AU  - Mohanty, D. 
TI  - Haemorrhage in upper cervical cord: an unusual manifestation in moderate haemophilia patients who ride motorbikes
JO  - Haemophilia
VL  - 7
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470655009
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2516.2001.00550.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1365-2516.2001.00550.x
SP  - 515
EP  - 516
KW  - bad road
KW  - cervical cord haemorrhage
KW  - moderate haemophilia
KW  - motorbikes
KW  - respiratory paralysis
PY  - 2001
AB  - A young asymptomatic patient, with moderate haemophilia due to factor IX deficiency, developed symptoms of upper cord compression caused by a haemorrhage 12?hours after riding a motorcycle on a poorly maintained road. This led to quadriparesis with respiratory paralysis. In spite of neurosurgical intervention and intensive management with respirator therapy, the patient died 13?days after the incident from pneumonia and multi-organ failure. This is a very rare presentation of moderate haemophilia with serious consequences and has not to our knowledge, previously been reported in the English literature.
ER  - 
