
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Elwood, Chelsea N.
AU  - Lange, Dirk
AU  - Nadeau, Richard
AU  - Seney, Shannon
AU  - Summers, Kelly
AU  - Chew, Ben H.
AU  - Denstedt, John D.
AU  - Cadieux, Peter A.
TI  - Novel in vitro model for studying ureteric stent-induced cell injury
JO  - BJU International
VL  - 105
IS  - 9
SN  - 1464-4096
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.09001.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.09001.x
SP  - 1318
EP  - 1323
KW  - stent
KW  - cytokines
KW  - inflammation
KW  - triclosan
KW  - cell line
PY  - 2010
AB  - OBJECTIVE To develop a novel in vitro model for the study of bladder and kidney epithelial cell injury akin to stent movement, as ureteric stents are associated with urinary tract complications that can significantly add to patient morbidity. These sequelae may be linked to inflammation triggered by stent-mediated mechanical injury to the urinary tract. MATERIALS AND METHODS T24 bladder and A498 kidney cell line monolayers were damaged mechanically by segments of either Percuflex Plus? (PP) or Triumph? (triclosan-eluting) stents (both from Boston Scientific Corporation Inc. Natick, MA, USA) and the resulting expression profiles of several pro-inflammatory cytokines and growth factors were analysed. RESULTS After control injury using the PP stent, supernatants of both cell lines had significantly increased levels of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, basic fibroblast growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor BB, and A498 cells also had increased tumour necrosis factor α. In almost all cases, the presence of triclosan within the media abrogated the pro-inflammatory cytokine increases, while its effects on growth factors varied. CONCLUSION This study suggests that stent-related symptoms in the bladder and kidney may be partially due to a local inflammatory response to epithelial damage caused by the presence and movement of the stent. Future stent design should take these inflammatory responses, with respect to physical injury, into consideration, using either more biocompatible materials or anti-inflammatory compounds such as triclosan.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Park, J.C.
AU  - Terry, M.J.
AU  - Man, L.X.
AU  - Burrell, W.A.
AU  - Kimball, B.Y.
AU  - Liu, F.J.
AU  - Matissen, D.P.
AU  - Breitbart, A.S.
TI  - 152 Retroviral Gene Therapy with the Gene for PDGF-B Promotes Wound Healing in Diabetic Mice
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216bd.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216bd.x
SP  - A28
EP  - A48
PY  - 2005
AB  - Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-B) is a potent cell mitogen and chemotactic signal involved in normal wound healing. PDGF-B is present at decreased levels in diabetic wounds and has been shown to improve wound healing when applied in a topical form. However, clinical results with topical PDGF in the treatment of diabetic wounds have been equivocal. In this study, we investigated whether application of PDGF-B via gene therapy can effectively promote wound healing in the diabetic environment in an animal model. Retroviral vectors carrying the gene for human PDGF-B were constructed using the LNCX virus and the G418 resistance gene for selection (LN-PDGF-B), and transduced into mouse dermal fibroblasts. LN-PDGF-B transduced fibroblasts were seeded into alginate hydrogel scaffolds at a concentration of 25???106 cells/implant and implanted into 2?cm???2?cm full thickness excisional dermal wounds created on the dorsae of genetically diabetic db/db mice. At 21 days, animals treated with LN-PDGF-B transduced cells suspended in alginate hydrogel demonstrated a significantly smaller epithelial gap (0.97 +/? 0.34?cm) than animals receiving untransduced mouse dermal fibroblasts alone (1.44 +/? 0.37?cm; P?<?0.05) or animals receiving dermal fibroblasts transduced with LNCX viral vector alone (1.40 +/? 0.20?cm; P?<?0.01). These results suggest tissue-engineered retroviral gene therapy with PDGF-B specifically promotes diabetic wound healing and may yield advances in the effective treatment of diabetic wounds. Supported by a grant from the American Diabetes Association
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dykstra, Jordan A.
AU  - Facile, Tiffany
AU  - Patrick, Ryan J.
AU  - Francis, Kevin R.
AU  - Milanovich, Samuel
AU  - Weimer, Jill M.
AU  - Kota, Daniel J.
TI  - Concise Review: Fat and Furious: Harnessing the Full Potential of Adipose-Derived Stromal Vascular Fraction
JO  - STEM CELLS Translational Medicine
JA  - STEM CELLS Translational Medicine
VL  - 6
IS  - 4
SN  - 2157-6564
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/sctm.16-0337
DO  - doi:10.1002/sctm.16-0337
SP  - 1096
EP  - 1108
KW  - Adult stem cells
KW  - Autologous stem cell transplantation
KW  - Adipose
KW  - Cellular therapy
KW  - Clinical trials
KW  - Mesenchymal stem cells
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Due to their capacity to self-renew, proliferate and generate multi-lineage cells, adult-derived stem cells offer great potential for use in regenerative therapies to stop and/or reverse degenerative diseases such as diabetes, heart failure, Alzheimer's disease and others. However, these subsets of cells can be isolated from different niches, each with differing potential for therapeutic applications. The stromal vascular fraction (SVF), a stem cell enriched and adipose-derived cell population, has garnered interest as a therapeutic in regenerative medicine due to its ability to secrete paracrine factors that accelerate endogenous repair, ease of accessibility and lack of identified major adverse effects. Thus, one can easily understand the rush to employ adipose-derived SVF to treat human disease. Perhaps faster than any other cell preparation, SVF is making its way to clinics worldwide, while critical preclinical research needed to establish SVF safety, efficacy and optimal, standardized clinical procedures are underway. Here, we will provide an overview of the current knowledge driving this phenomenon, its regulatory issues and existing studies, and propose potential unmapped applications. Stem Cells Translational Medicine 2017;6:1096?1108
ER  - 

AU  - Berge, Eivind
AU  - Sandercock, Peter
C7  - pp. 587-656
TI  - Specific treatment of acute ischemic stroke
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118492390.ch13
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118492390.ch13
SP  - 587-656
KW  - Acute ischemic stroke
KW  - pathophysiology
KW  - antiplatelet agents
KW  - anticoagulants
KW  - thrombolytics
KW  - mechanical intra-arterial treatment
KW  - ultrasound augmentation of clot lysis
KW  - Gp IIb/IIIa inhibitors
KW  - defibrinogenating agents
KW  - decompressive surgery
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary Focal cerebral ischemia, caused by a sudden occlusion of a cerebral blood vessel or sometimes just by low blood flow, initiates a series of events which can lead to irreversible neuronal damage and death (i.e. infarction) in the part of the brain supplied or drained by that vessel. Several pathophysiological cascades run in sequence (and in parallel). In the vascular system, rapid changes in platelet and coagulation factors, the vessel wall (particularly the endothelium) and in the thrombus itself interact to produce a very dynamic state, not only at the site of vessel occlusion, but also more remotely, in both the macro- and microcirculation. In brain tissue, changes occur in neurons, glial cells, and other structural components in differing degrees and at different times after the onset of ischemia, which means that cerebral infarction is a dynamic and highly unstable process, not a discrete ?one-off? event. In other words, infarction is not an ?all-or-nothing? episode which is instantaneous in onset, maximal in severity at the moment of onset, and irreversibly complete within 6 hours. This chapter begins with a review of pathophysiology, particularly aspects which relate to the specific treatments that are described later in the chapter. As far as possible, we base the decision whether or not to use a particular treatment, not merely on its putative physiological effects, but on the evidence from randomized controlled trials in patients which demonstrate the balance of clinical risk and benefit associated with its use. In view of this, the section on each of the specific treatments will assess the strength of evidence available and, where possible, base any recommendations on the results of a systematic review (and meta-analysis) of all the relevant randomized controlled trials of that particular treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bray, J. P.
AU  - Orbell, G.
AU  - Cave, N.
AU  - Munday, J. S.
TI  - Does thalidomide prolong survival in dogs with splenic haemangiosarcoma?
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 59
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12796
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12796
SP  - 85
EP  - 91
PY  - 2018
AB  - Objectives To investigate thalidomide as an adjuvant treatment for canine haemangiosarcoma. Materials and Methods Fifteen dogs with splenic haemangiosarcoma, initially treated by splenectomy, were included. Following recovery from surgery, all dogs received thalidomide continuously until their death. Tumour stage was established using CT scans of the chest and abdomen immediately before starting thalidomide treatment and again three months later. Cause of death was confirmed by post mortem examination. Results The median survival time of dogs receiving thalidomide was 172?days (95% confidence interval: 93 to 250?days). Five dogs (33% of the population receiving thalidomide) survived more than 1 year (range 458 to 660?days) after surgery. Dogs with stage 2 disease that received thalidomide also had a longer survival time than dogs with stage 3 disease (median survival time 303 versus 40?days). Of 15 dogs, 13 died from metastatic haemangiosarcoma. Clinical Significance Treatment using thalidomide may improve survival of dogs with splenic haemangiosarcoma and should be considered a possible adjuvant therapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - SHEATS, M. K.
AU  - COOK, V. L.
AU  - JONES, S. L.
AU  - BLIKSLAGER, A. T.
AU  - PEASE, A. P.
TI  - Use of ultrasound to evaluate outcome following colic surgery for equine large colon volvulus
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 42
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/042516409X456040
DO  - doi:10.2746/042516409X456040
SP  - 47
EP  - 52
KW  - horse
KW  - colic
KW  - large colon volvulus
KW  - ultrasound
KW  - multiple organ dysfunction syndrome
KW  - oedema
PY  - 2010
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study: The post operative response of the large colon wall after a surgically corrected large colon volvulus (LCV) has not been investigated. Objectives: To use transabdominal ultrasound to monitor the post operative change in large colon wall thickness following surgical correction of LCV. Hypothesis: A prolonged period to colon wall involution is correlated with an increased rate of post operative morbidity and mortality. Methods: A prospective clinical study including horses that presented to the North Carolina State University Veterinary Teaching Hospital for colic between September 2006 and March, 2008, had surgically diagnosed and corrected LCV (at least 360°) without resection and recovered from anaesthesia. Ultrasound of the ventral large colon was performed at the time of anaesthetic recovery and every 6?8?h until the colon wall returned to normal thickness (≤5?mm). Outcome was evaluated using a one-way ANOVA to compare average time to colon wall involution between: 1) survivors and nonsurvivors; and 2) horses that developed multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) during the post operative period and those that recovered without evidence of MODS. Results: Sixteen horses that recovered without evidence of MODS had a significantly shorter period to colon wall involution (≤5?mm) compared to those diagnosed with MODS (mean ± s.e. 19.6?h ± 2.5 and 39.7?h ± 6.7 respectively, P = 0.006). There was no significant difference in mean period to colon wall involution between survivors and nonsurvivors (26.2 ± 4.9 and 33.2 ± 7.8?h, respectively). Conclusions: A shorter time to colon wall involution was associated with decreased post operative morbidity in horses presented for surgical correction of large colon volvulus without resection. Potential relevance: Ultrasonographic monitoring of colon wall involution after surgical correction of LCV may aid in identifying those cases at risk of MODS. Further investigation of colon wall involution time using a larger number of horses is warranted.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kadic, D. T. N.
AU  - Minshall, G. J.
AU  - Wright, I. M.
TI  - Surgical management of marginal tears/avulsions of the suspensory ligament branches in 29 Thoroughbred racehorses
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 51
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.13020
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.13020
SP  - 310
EP  - 315
KW  - horse
KW  - suspensory ligament branch
KW  - tears
KW  - avulsions
KW  - surgery
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary Background Suspensory ligament branch injuries are common in horses. Most of these injuries are grouped together and considered as a single pathologic entity. Objectives To report a specific injury of the abaxial margin of the suspensory ligament branches and to report its surgical management and outcome. Study design Retrospective case series. Methods All horses with suspensory ligament branch injuries over a 9-year period (2007?2015) were identified. Horses with injuries which, on ultrasonographic examination, appeared to have defects in the abaxial margin of the suspensory ligament branch, that were subsequently confirmed during surgery were selected. Results Twenty-nine cases fulfilled the inclusion criteria with a specific lesion location on the abaxial margin of the suspensory ligament branch. Nineteen horses raced successfully after surgery, nine returned to training but failed to race and one was lost to follow-up. Main limitations The absence of a comparable population of non-surgically managed horses in this study means that the contribution of removing torn tissue cannot confidently be assessed. Conclusions The location and morphology of injuries described in this study is consistent, which suggests aetiopathogenic commonality. This case series suggests this type of injury has an identity of its own, differs from other types of suspensory ligament branch injuries and represents a previously undescribed subgroup.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gupta, Sweta
AU  - Acharya, Suchitra
AU  - Roberson, Christopher
AU  - Lail, Alice
AU  - Soucie, J. Michael
AU  - Shapiro, Amy
TI  - Potential of the Community Counts registry to characterize rare bleeding disorders
JO  - Haemophilia
JA  - Haemophilia
VL  - 25
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/hae.13847
DO  - doi:10.1111/hae.13847
SP  - 1045
EP  - 1050
KW  - community counts
KW  - population profile
KW  - rare bleeding disorders
KW  - registry
KW  - surveillance
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Introduction Rare bleeding disorders (RBDs) comprise of heterogeneous coagulation factor deficiencies and platelet disorders that are underreported worldwide. Aim First report on RBD data from United States haemophilia treatment center network (USHTCN). Methods A national surveillance system for the federally recognized USHTCN developed in collaboration with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and American Thrombosis and Haemostasis Network (ATHN) was queried for patients with RBDs. Patient counts were extracted from the HTC Population Profile (HTC PP) component including limited data on patients followed through the USHTCN, and from the Registry component, including patient authorized, detailed clinical data. The prevalence of RBDs in the United States was estimated based on the HTC PP data and compared to the expected national prevalence based on data extrapolated from Orphanet, an international registry. Results Based on the estimated prevalence of RBD in the overall 2017 US population, the cases in the HTC network were lower than expected for FI, FII, FX, and FV + FVIII deficiencies by 36%, 61%, 75% and 94%, respectively, and higher than expected for FXIII, FV, FVII, and FXI deficiencies by 7%, 14%, 33% and 185%, respectively. The proportion of RBD patients reported in the HTC PP, enrolled in the Registry, was 10.8%. Conclusions There is a clear need to identify individuals with RBDs who could benefit from the comprehensive care provided in the USHTCN. In addition, increased enrolment of people with all RBDs in the Registry is needed to improve knowledge of treatment outcomes of patients with RBDs in the United States.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: Clinical EEG
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_15.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_15.x
SP  - 131
EP  - 142
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Imran I. Ali, 1 Nabeel A. Herial, 1 Noor A. Pirzada, 1 Neeraj Kaplish, and 1 L. John Greenfield ( 1 Neurology, Medical University of Ohio, Toledo, OH ) Rationale: Status epilepticus (SE) from all causes is associated with a 25?30% mortality rate. In patients with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) and SE, the mortality is even higher. Effect of non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) in this group have not been described previously. We, therefore, wanted to review the EEG features of SE in patients with HIE to correlate them with the clinical findings and also identify patients in which intervention may be associated with a better prognosis. Methods: The EEG database at Medical University of Ohio from 1999?2004 was reviewed. Patients with HIE and fulfilling the EEG criteria for status epilepticus were identified. EEG were reviewed by two Board Certified Electroencephalographers and charts were reviewed for clinical and EEG information. IRB approval was obtained for this study. Results: Twelve patients were identified who fulfilled the criteria for for HIE and NCSE. There were six men and six women. Mean age was 60.5 years (range 38?85). Six patients had isolated cardiac arrest, two had purely respiratory arrest while four had simulatneous cardiorespiratory arrest. Six patients were comatose with no clinical evidence of seizures (50%), three patients (25%) had intermittent myoclonus, while two patients (16%) had focal clonic activity noted initially. One additional patient had generalized tonic clonic seizure that was followed by coma and EEG evidence of NCSE. Irregular bifrontal generalized spike and wave discharges were seen in six patients (50%), generalized periodic epileptiform discharges with evolving pattern were seen in five patients (42%), and focal rhythmic spike and wave activity was seen in one patient (8%). Severe background suppression was noted in all patients. Three patients had intermittent theta activity but the background was unreactive. In nine patients NCSE resolved with treatment but in all twelve patients this did not result in improvement of the background EEG activity. All twelve patients died within 30 days of onset of NCSE. Conclusions: EEG features of non-convulsive status epilepticus are variable but most patients had generalized periodic epileptiform discharges with evolving frontal discharges or rhythmic frontal spike and wave activity. The EEG pattern did not influence outcome or correlate with specific clinical features. In our series non-convulsive status epilepticus in patients with hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy was associated with a 100% mortality. Although status epilepticus resolved in 66% of the patients with aggressive treatment, this did not result in improved outcome. 1 Noel Baker, and 1 Paul C. Van Ness ( 1 Neurolgy, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: Subclinical Rhythmic Epileptiform Discharge of Adults (SREDA) is a non-ictal electrographic variant most frequently characterised as a 5?7 Hz rhythm of abrupt onset and termination and located maximally in the temporoparietoocipital regions. It differs from an ictal pattern in a lack of evolution in frequency, distribution and morphology, and in the subjects' lack of clinical change during the duration of the discharge.(1) SREDA has most often been described in adults in the 4th to the 9th decades, but Najarajan et al have described this pattern in 2 young girls.(2,3) We report its occurrence in a young man whose SREDA had characteristics described as rare in adults. Methods: In the pediatric division of our institution, approximately 2200?2500 routine EEGs and 150?200 prolonged video-EEG studies are performed each year. Since 2001, only one case of SREDA in a pediatric patient was seen in our institution. Results: Case Report: The patient initially presented at the age of 14 for staring spells. His neurologic examination and IQ were normal. An intial routine and video EEG were interpreted as showing non-convulsive status, despite his ability to interact during the discharges. He was placed on valproate with no clinical change. A second video EEG 3 years later showed bursts of 5?6 Hz discharges occaisionally slowing to 1?2 Hz which were consistently maximal in the frontal regions and at the vertex, bilaterally synchronous in onset, and persisting in light sleep. The bursts lasted up to 5 minutes in duration and ended abruptly with re-emergence a normal background, and comprised >50% of the record during the 3 days of monitoring. The SREDA persisted unchanged during activation procedures, eye opening and closing, and repetition of syllables such as ?lilt.? During the bursts, he repeatedly demonstrated his ability to follow commands, answer questions, play video games, and complete neuropsychologic testing. Conclusions: SREDA is rare EEG pattern occurring in approximately 1/2500 adult recordings and documented in patients with such non-epileptiform complaints as headaches, dizziness, and depression, as well as seizures. Atypical SREDA variants charcterised as frontally predominant, or occurring as delta frequencies, or having a waxing and waning pattern have also been described, comparable to what we saw in our patient. (2) While our experience at our institution confirms that of Nagarajan et all that SREDA is not seen exclusively in adults, it also suggests that SREDA is more rare in pediatric patients. 1 Westmoreland B. and Klass D. A Distinctive Rhythmic EEG Discharge of Adults. Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 1981, 51:186?191. 2 Westmoreland B. and Klass D. Unusual variants of subclinical rhythmic electrographic discharge of adults (SREDA). Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 1991, 102:1?4. 3 Nagarajan L. et al Subclinical Rhythmic EEG Discharge of Adults: SREDA in Two Children. Pediatric Neurology, 2001; 24:313?316. 1 Ramon E. Bautista, 2 Steven Godwin, and 2 David Caro ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ; and 2 Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: Patients frequently present to the emergency room (ER) with mental status changes but without any immediately apparent cause. The EEG is underutilized in this population, partly due to the time and preparation required to perform it, possibly causing a delay in diagnosis. In this study, we determined if an abbreviated EEG (AEEG) performed immediately upon patient arrival to the ER could provide useful information. We specifically wanted to know if AEEGs can be useful in diagnosing non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE). Methods: We performed a 5-minute AEEG using a preformed electrode placement system on 25 consecutive patients who presented to the ER with mental status changes but without any immediately apparent cause as determined by ER physicians. The AEEGs were performed almost immediately after the patient arrived in the ER without the benefit of a neurologic consultation. The AEEGs were only reviewed after patient discharge and did not impact patient care. We also conducted a retrospective chart review of all enrolled patients after discharge to determine the discharge diagnosis. We then performed a Fisher exact test to determine if the cause of mental status changes could be distinguished by AEEG findings. Results: Of 25 patients entered into the study, two had a discharge diagnosis of new onset NCSE. These patients had AEEG findings consistent with electrographic seizure activity. Seven patients were later diagnosed to have a metabolic/infectious encephalopathy. The AEEGs in four of these patients showed diffuse slowing and one had interictal epileptiform activity. Eight patients were seen due to post-ictal confusion and seven of them had AEEGs that showed diffuse slowing. Two patient were diagnosed with syncope and both had normal AEEGs. One patient had a left MCA-CVA and the AEEG showed diffuse slowing that was accentuated over the left hemisphere. One patient was diagnosed with dementia and had a normal AEEG. The diagnoses in four patients were uncertain even at the time of discharge. Three of these patients had a normal AEEG while one AEEG was uninterpretable due to movement artifact. Aside from those who were diagnosed to have NCSE, no other patient had an AEEG showing electrographic seizure activity. Using Fisher's exact test, mental status changes due to NCSE could be distinguished by the presence of electrographic seizure activity on AEEG. Conclusions: Our study suggests that even an abbreviated EEG performed early during the ER visit can diagnose NCSE in patients who present with mental status changes of unknown cause. Future studies with larger sample sizes would help definitively establish the utility of this technique. (Supported by University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville Dean's Fund Research Awards for Faculty.) 1 Scott Bearden, 1,2 Basim Uthman, and 2 Stephan Eisenschenk ( 1 Neurology, North Florida/South Georgia Veterans Health System, Gainesville, FL ; and 2 Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) is most often defined as an epileptic state, without convulsive motor activity, lasting at least 30 minutes with associated ictal EEG activity. A clinically evident, sustained change from baseline behavior or mental status should also occur unless the patient is comatose or in simple partial NCSE. Diagnostic challenges are most evident in NCSE patients presenting with stupor or coma since no or only little behavioral changes are clearly apparent. Identifying EEG patterns that are most probably ictal representations of NCSE could be most valuable in early diagnosis and treatment of NCSE. Delay to diagnosis of adult NCSE may increase morbidity and mortality. Methods: A thorough review of the literature from 1972 to 2004 identified 72 publications involving NCSE in adults. Clinical and EEG presentations of reported cases were analyzed and supplemented with examples from our clinical practice. Results: We devised a classification scheme summarizing clinical presentations and ictal EEG patterns of NCSE. Five clinical categories combined with common ictal EEG signatures were identified and referenced in five charts integrating the type of NCSE, common patient symptomatology, ictal EEG, interictal EEG, and prognostic information. Two flow charts (combining clinical presentation and EEG) were developed to aid in classification and provide prognostic information for most adult patients in NCSE whose mental state ranges from mild confusion to stupor and for patients who are comatose. The use of benzodiazepines as a diagnostic aide during EEG was scrutinized. Conclusions: Classification of prolonged ictal confusion, stupor and coma utilizing clinical and EEG presentations into a simple logical framework is possible and may contribute to early diagnosis and timely treatment of NCSE. High awareness of NCSE as a clinical entity presenting as change in mental status is critical for early diagnosis and intervention. 1 Rachel Berman, 2 Michiro Negishi, 2 R. Todd Constable, 3,4 Edward J. Novotny, 3 Susan Levy, and 4,5 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 2 Diagnostic Radiology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; and 5 Neurobiology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Absence seizures occur most commonly in children. They involve brief episodes of staring and non-responsiveness. Electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings of typical childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) show bilateral 3?4 Hz spike-wave discharges. True CAE rarely persists to adulthood. Prior published reports of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in adult patients describe variable bilateral frontoparietal fMRI increases, decreases, and thalamic increases during generalized spike-wave, with most studies performed at 1.5T. The goal of the present study is to extend these investigations to typical absence seizures in the pediatric population, which may differ from adult patients, using combined EEG and fMRI at 3T. Methods: Pediatric patients with typical absence seizures, and no other seizure types, were tested. After application of a 19 channel EEG cap connected to an EEG recorder (Neuroscan NuAmps), fMRI was performed using a 3T MR system (Siemens Trio), with continuous EPI BOLD sequence. Multiple 10 minute imaging runs were repeated up to 6 times. To increase the chance of obtaining absence seizures, patients were asked to hold medications for up to 48 hours, and were sleep deprived the night before scanning. EEG artifact was removed by post-processing using temporal PCA-based gradient noise removal. fMRI data during seizure and baseline intervals were analyzed in a general linear model using SPM2. Results: During typical childhood absence seizures, we found significant blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal increases in bilateral thalamus. Moderate increases were found in the cingulate, lateral frontal, and parietal cortex. Decreased BOLD signal was observed in the retrosplenial cortex, and to a lesser degree in the bilateral frontoparietal cortex. Conclusions: Despite increased challenges of performing fMRI in pediatric patients, high quality data can be obtained in this population. As in adult patients, increases and decreases are seen in frontoparietal and thalamic networks. Further study is needed to determine whether variable involvement of different specific regions of cortex and thalamus during absence seizures is related to variable effects on cognition seen during these seizures. (Supported by Betsy and Jonathan Blattmachr Fund.) 1 Milan P. Borkovic, 1 Nebojsa J. Jovic, and 1 Jasna Jancic ( 1 Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia; Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia; and Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia ) Rationale: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is an idiopathic generalized epileptic syndrome. It is often considered as benign because of its non-lesional nature and favourable clinical long-term prognosis. The characteristic EEG pattern is presented with bilateral symmetric polyspike-wave complexes with anterior accentuation. Focal EEG abnormalities are not exclusive in patients with an unequivocal diagnosis of JME. Methods: A Group of 39 patients of both sexes (17 male, 22 female), aged from 12 to 26 years (mean 17.8 years) with JME were studied for focal EEG abnormalities recorded during the clinical follow-up. Mean seizure onset was 13.5 years. Diagnosis was made according to the history and EEG records. Antiepileptic treatment was started with valproate. Results: Initial clinical and EEG assesment was carried-out after the generalized tonic-clonic seizure (mainly induced by sleep-deprivation), in 51% of JME patients. Absences in 21% and myoclonic jerks in 28% of patients were observed as initial epileptic events and reffered for EEG examinations. Complete, stable, long-term seizure control was achieved with valproate use in 87% of patients. In remaining 13% no favorable therapeutic response of AEDs was noted, mainly due to the irregular lifestyle. Repeated EEGs during sleep and when awake showed the interictal polyspike-wave pattern or fast/classical spike-wave discharges. Generalized EEG patterns were prevalent as expected: polyspike-waves or spike-wave discharges non-related to photic stimulation were noted in 66.7% and paroxysmal abnormalities to photic stimulation in 35.9%. Non-specific abnormalities were shown in 10.3%, while, bilateral anterior spikes and sharp waves were recorded in 23.1% of JME adolescents. Localization-related EEG abnormalities (focal slow waves shifting between the hemispheres, spikes, sharp waves and focal onset or asymmetrical generalized discharges) were noted in 23,1% of our JME patients. Conclusions: In more than one fourth of our JME patients, EEG showed focal abnormalities in addition to the generalized EEG patterns. These features should not be mislead to the erroneous interperetation of EEG characteristic for localization-related epilepsy. 1 Luiz E. Betting, 1 Susana B. Mory, 2 Iscia Lopes-Cendes, 1 Li M. Li, 1 Marilisa M. Guerreiro, 1 Carlos A.M. Guerreiro, and 1 Fernando Cendes ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Medical Genetics, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The objectives of this study were to investigate the EEG profile in a group of patients with clinical diagnosis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) followed in a tertiary Hospital and to evaluate the contribution of the records for diagnosis and management of these patients. Methods: We retrospectively studied clinical and EEG features of 180 consecutive patients with IGE. Eighty patients were diagnosed with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), 35 had absence epilepsy (AE), 13 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures on awakening (GTCS-A), 28 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures only (TCS) and 24 had adult onset idiopathic generalized epilepsy (AIGE). The EEGs were classified in typical (synchronous generalized spike or polyspike and wave discharges with normal background), atypical (with clear focalities or asymmetries) and normal. Results: A total of 493 EEG exams were analyzed. The first EEG was normal in 45% of the 180 patients and only 33% had typical abnormalities. AE had a higher proportion of typical exams and needed less sequential exams to register a typical abnormality compared to the other groups. By contrast, the serial EEG profile of TCS and AIGE showed a higher proportion of normal and atypical EEG findings. Conclusions: These findings support previous recommendations that IGE patients should be treated with appropriate therapy based on clinical history. Waiting for a typical abnormal EEG pattern can generate an unacceptable delay in the correct diagnosis and treatment of these patients. In patients with long term epilepsy the diagnosis may be difficult. Furthermore, serial EEGs can help to elucidate the syndromic diagnosis, especially in patients with TCS and AIGE. (Supported by CAPES, FAPESP.) 1 Farzana Darbari, and 1 Sigmund Jenssen ( 1 Neurology, Drexel Medical College, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Sleep has been shown to influence multiple physiological processes i.e. control of blood pressure, glycemia and protein synthesis, and deprivation of sleep could theoretically lead to sickness. Patients who are admitted to a hospital suffer disturbance of sleep due to external, medical and psychological factors. Disturbed sleep leads to decreased sleep latency. We hypothesized that in-patients have decreased sleep latency as compared to out-patients and that sleep latency decreases with length of stay. Methods: Otherwise completely normal EEG recordings were reviewed prospectively for sleep onset, which we defined as at 30 seconds of stage two of sleep or briefer if stage two of sleep was seen more than once. Patients with known sleep disorders, deliberately sleep deprived recordings and recordings with focal or generalized abnormalities were excluded. We noted medications, length of stay and if recording had been done in AM or in PM. Comparisons were done using the Mann-Whitney test and Pearson's for correlation. Results: Thirty out-patient and 24 in-patient EEGs were reviewed. Mean sleep latency for out-patients was 16 minutes and 54 seconds (SD 11 minutes and 17 seconds) and for in-patients 11 minutes and 27 seconds (SD 8 minutes and 35 seconds). (P = 0.0314). Length of hospital stay and sleep latency did not correlate. There was no statistical difference in age, number of patients on sleep enhancing medications or time of day of EEG between the two groups. Conclusions: In-patients have decreased sleep latency as compared to out-patients. This could be related to disturbed sleep. To see if this is a risk factor for poor recovery needs further investigation. 1 Anita Datta, and 1 David B. Sinclair ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ) Rationale: The objective of the study was to compare the clinical course and outcome of children with typical and atypical features of Benign Epilepsy of Childhood with Rolandic Spikes (BECRS). Methods: A retrospective case series design was used in the setting of a tertiary care pediatric hospital. One hundred and twenty six children with BECRS were selected for the study. The patients were divided into two groups based on their clinical presentation. Group A consisted of children with typical features of BECRS. Group B consisted of those with atypical features. Atypical features included age of onset, abnormal neurological exam, developmental delay, and presence of other types of seizures. Patients' charts were reviewed for demographic data, family history, comorbid conditions, atypical clinical features, anticonvulsant drugs, and outcome data. Results: Atypical features were seen in 47% of patients. Comorbid disorders such as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and behavioral problems, although seen in both groups, were slightly more frequent in the atypical group. Sixty-seven percent of children had a family history of migraine and 54% were migraine sufferers. Overall, there was no difference between time to become seizure free between the groups: 62% of the typical group was controlled on medication by two years while 71% of the atypical group was seizure free. Thirty-five percent of the typical BECRS group were incompletely controlled on medication, while 65% of the atypical group required the addition of a second anti-epileptic drug. Resolution of the epilepsy occurred at about the same age in both groups with similar long term outcomes. Conclusions: Atypical features in BECRS are common. Comorbid disorders are seen in both groups. Personal or family history of migraine appears to be associated with the disorder. Overall, the long term outcome is similar in both groups, although the atypical patients may be initially more difficult-to-control. Resolution of the epilepsy and a good long term outcome was not affected by the presence of atypical clinical features. 1 Ronald G. Davis, and 1 Carl R. Barr ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Pediatric Neurology, PA, Orlando, FL; and Pediatric Neurology, Pediatric Neurology, PA, Orlando, FL ) Rationale: We report on a large series (>25) of pediatric patients who presented to our neurology practice with various neurologic referable complaints, excluding clinical seizure activity, who were discovered to have EEG abnormalities. Patient ages varied from 3?18years. Symptoms included headache with vertigo, vertigo, visual field alterations including Alice-in -Wonderland changes and atypical speech/language dyspraxia. Prior to presentation, there had been no history of seizure or seizure like activity noted in any of the patients by history and record review. Methods: Routine surface EEG was completed on these patients as part of the workup. Findings included focal sharp wave discharges, focal spike and wave discharges, rhythmic slowing and generalized bursts of spike and polyspike and wave discharges of the non-absence type. A significant percentage also activated with sleep. Neuroimaging was normal in all cases. Therapeutic intervention varied and included the use of antiepileptic medications. Results: A positive response to symptoms (>50% improvement in symptoms) was noted in >50% of patients. Of the initial nonresponders, a second antiepileptic medication was tried. Of those who did not respond to 2 medication trials, discontinuation of medication was recommended. No significant adverse events were reported for any patients who were treated. Conclusions: In conclusion, EEG abnormalities can be seen in pediatric patients with atypical neurologic complaints without clinical seizures.How these electrographic abnormalities contribute to symptoms is unclear. Additionally, guidelines for medication intervention will need to be established, though further investigation will be required. Given these finding and significantly positive clinical response in this limited number of patients, EEG should be considered frequently in the diagnostic evaluation of similar pediatric patients. 1 Eliane Kobayashi, 1 Andrew P. Bagshaw, 1 Jean Gotman, and 1 François Dubeau ( 1 EEG Department, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, Canada ) Rationale: Cerebral cavernous angiomas (CCAs) are frequently associated with focal intractable epilepsy, and their epileptogenicity is usually attributed to the rim of hemosiderin deposits. Co-recording of EEG and fMRI is a new method to investigate the effects of epileptic discharges in the focus and at distance. Methods: We used EEG-fMRI to identify BOLD responses to interictal spikes in patients with CCAs. Spikes were marked according to spatial distribution, with each spike type determining one EEG-fMRI study. Combined maps of t-statistics were created to assess positive (activation) and negative (deactivation) changes in BOLD signal related to the spikes. Responses were analysed in the lesional and perilesional area, and at distance. The raw fMRI signal in the lesion and its boundaries was evaluated for signal loss due to the susceptibility artefact associated with the lesion and the hemosiderin. Results: Eight patients, three with multiple CCAs, were scanned, all with temporal lobe epilepsy and spikes. One patient had bilateral spikes, analyzed separately, and three studies with less than two spikes were excluded. Therefore, six studies were analyzed, all showing BOLD responses: four had only activation, one had only deactivation and one had both responses. No response was found in the lesion itself or immediate periphery, and the raw fMRI signal showed loss in lesional and perilesional areas in all patients. Responses involved the perilesional area in 2/6 studies, both concordant with the spike topography, one as activation and the other one as deactivation. In all patients, areas of BOLD responses were identified at distance from the lesion. In the four studies where the spikes were ipsilateral to the temporal CCA, there was activation in that temporal lobe. In the two studies where the spikes were contralateral to the temporal CCA, the response was concordant with the spike in one study, and unrelated to either the spike or the lesion in the other one. Conclusions: Despite susceptibility artifacts caused by iron deposits, we demonstrated EEG-fMRI responses involving the perilesional areas in 33% of studies, supporting their role in epileptogenicity of CCAs. The frequently distant responses are in accordance with previous studies in lesional and non-lesional temporal lobe epilepsy. These responses may be the result of distant effect of spikes, which, in CCAs, could be enhanced by the possible presence of non-visible microvascular lesions. (Supported by The Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), Preston Robb fellowship from the MNI and the Savoy Foundation for Epilepsy.) 1 Maria D.C. Gomes, 1 Eliana Garzon, 1 Elza M.T. Yacubian, and 1,2 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Federal University of S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Psychiatry and Psychology, University of S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Hypsarritmia is a well-known EEG pattern that usually appears associated to a severe form of infantile epilepsy. Different patterns of hypsarritmia are recognizable on visual analysis, making it difficult to correlate to outcome. In this study we propose the use of scales for objective analysis of EEG background and hypsarritmia, searching for predictors of EEG outcome in West Syndrome. Methods: EEGs of children with diagnosis of West Syndrome and infantile spasms were analyzed. Patients were included in the study between October 2002 to October 2004. EEG background parameters encompassed presence of background gradient, amount of delta activity, sleep spindles and assimetry; hypsarritmia parameters included amplitude and percentage of hypsarritmia in the EEG record. Patients were divided in controlled (group 1) and uncontrolled (group 2) and their scores compared. Clinical variables including age of onset of spasms, age at the time of the examination, previous use of antiepileptic drugs, etiology and MRI data were additionally analyzed. Results: 24 EEGs were assessed and scored. Global scores varied from 7 to 18, background scores from 2 to 12, and hypsarritmia scores from 4 to 9, respectively (groups 1 and 2). Age of onset of spasms were classified as early onset, classical and late onset, and the global EEG scores were 11.8 (sd = 2.28), 12.61 (sd = 3.09) and 13, respectively. Differences were not statiscally significant. Patients'age at the time of the evaluation were also divided in up to 4 months, 4 to 9 months, 9 to 12 months and over 12 months. Global EEG scores regarding patients' age were, respectively 14, 12.50 (sd = 3.12); 11.67(sd = 2.50) and 12.78 (sd = 3.15). There was no correlation between EEG scores and duration of epilepsy, etiology, MRI findings. Lower scores were found in controlled patients, while higher scores in uncontrolled patients. Overall, only background scores were correlated with outcome. Conclusions: In patients with West syndrome EEG scores were not affected by clinical and etiological data. Global EEG scores do not have prognostic value, but background scores were predictive of EEG outcome (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Jeffrey W. Britton, 1 Gena R. Ghearing, 1 Eduardo E. Benarroch, and 1 Gregory D. Cascino ( 1 Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic Rochester, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: The importance of the insular cortex and adjacent temporal lobe in cardiovascular regulation has been demonstrated. Some studies have suggested that cortical cardiac autonomic influences may be lateralized, with sympathetic representation lateralized to the right insula and parasympathetic to the left. Ictal bradycardia, although rare, offers an opportunity to study the functional anatomy of cardiac rate control. Methods: A query was performed on all electronic reports of prolonged EEG monitoring studies performed at Mayo Clinic Rochester from January 1990 to December 2004. Ictal bradycardia was defined as an R-R interval of greater than 2.0 seconds or activation of cardiac pacing during a recorded seizure. All clinical and electrophysiological data in identified patients were reviewed to determine localization and lateralization of EEG activity at seizure onset and at the onset of bradycardia in these patients. A literature review of previously reported cases was also conducted. Results: Thirteen patients were identified out of 6,168 patients who underwent video-EEG monitoring at our institution during the study period. Ictal bradycardia was present in 29 of 60 recorded seizures in these patients. Seizure onset was localized to the temporal lobe in all patients. EEG activity at seizure onset did not consistently lateralize to either hemisphere. Seven patients had ictal bradycardia with right temporal seizure onset, five with left temporal seizures and one with bitemporal seizure onset. Seizure activity was bilateral at bradycardia onset in 9 of 13 patients. One patient had seizure activity confined to the right hemisphere, and 3 had only left hemisphere activity at bradycardia onset. One hundred six cases of ictal bradycardia were found in the literature, with 80 of these patients having simultaneous EEG and ECG monitoring. Of these, seizure onset was localized to the temporal lobe in 35 patients, to the frontotemporal region in 15, the frontal lobe in 13 and the occipital lobe in one. Information regarding the EEG lateralization at seizure onset was available in 55 cases, but only 21 of these cases had information on EEG lateralization at the onset of bradycardia. While 34 of 55 patients had seizure onset lateralized to the left hemisphere at seizure onset, 11 of 21 had bilateral activity at bradycardia onset. Conclusions: Both our series and a review of the ictal bradycardia literature support the association of ictal bradycardia with temporal lobe onset seizures. However, ictal bradycardia does not appear to be a consistent lateralizing finding. The distribution of seizure activity at the onset of bradycardia was bilateral in our series, suggesting that bradycardia is more likely to occur in the setting of bilateral hemispheric seizure activity. These data do not support the presence of a lateralized cortical zone associated with parasympathetic cardiovascular activity in humans. (Supported by NINDS P01 NS32352-P2.) 1 Preeti Gupta, 2 Robert Rothermel, 1 Darren R. Fuerst, and 1 Aashit K. Shah ( 1 Neurology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit Medical Cetner, Detroit, MI ; and 2 Psychiatry/Psychology, Detroit Medical Center, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: The Wada test is a neurological test used for epileptic patients who are scheduled for epilepsy surgery to evaluate memory function and language dominance by injecting a short acting anesthetic, sodium amobarbital, in each internal carotid artery separately, anesthetizing the part of the brain perfused by that circulation. We have observed shivering in a portion of patients undergoing the Wada test. The relationship of shivers in the context of this test has not been delineated. Therefore, in this study, we attempt to attain a further understanding regarding this clinical phenomenon. Methods: We studied a total of 14 patients (9.5?50.25 years) prospectively who have undergone the Wada test since 2003. Multiple variables including age, race, sex, site of injection, dose of amobarbital, duration of shivering, duration of slowing on the EEG (as a surrogate for continued effects of amobarbital on the brain), and hemispheric dominance were analyzed. Results: Of the fourteen patients, six (43%) experienced shivering during the Wada test. The duration of shivering was similar to the duration of amobarbital's effect as monitored by the presence of slowing on EEG. No significant difference in the two groups was noted in terms of age, race, sex, dose of amobarbital, and hemispheric dominance. Of these six patients, four patients shivered after injection to the left ICA and two patients shivered after injection to the right ICA. Conclusions: There is no difference among patient characteristics in those who shivered vs. those who did not, suggesting an anatomical cause for this clinical observation. The anterior cerebral artery and the anterior communicating artery, branches of the ICA, perfuse the anterior hypothalamus. Thus, sodium amobarbital injected into the ICA likely causes a temporary functional lesion of the anterior hypothalamic-preoptic area (heat center). This area normally inhibits the primary motor center for shivering. This ?lesion? likely causes a release of the primary motor center for shivering from the inhibitory effects from the ?heat center? resulting in the clinical manifestation of shivering. 1 Yun Jung Her, 1 Joon Soo Lee, 2 Jong Doo Lee, and 1 Heung Dong Kim ( 1 Pediatrics, Institute of Handicapped Children, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Seodaemun-ku, Korea ; and 2 Diagnostic Radiology, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Seodaemun-ku, Korea ) Rationale: Changes in metabolism due to the differences of cerebral blood flow during ictal and interictal period can be quite various when observed by 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluro-D-glucose(FDG)-PET. So, we performed EEG and PET concurrently to evaluate the effect of epileptiform and non-epileptiform discharge of EEG on glucose metabolism. We tried to reduce the rate of false lateralization of PET reading and evaluate the relationship between EEG and PET result, thus deciding the appropriateness of concurrent study of PET and PET-EEG along with the importance of PET-EEG in diagnosing and localizing a lesion. Methods: 73 children with pediatric epilepsy who received PET and PET-EEG simultaneously were included in our study. We studied their clinical aspects of seizure, the severity of focal slow wave during interictal period with the frequency and localization of polyspike or sharp wave to compare with the result of PET. Also, we evaluated the relationship between pathologic results and the concurrency rate between PET and PET-EEG in patients who received operation. Results: 73 patients received PET and PET-EEG concurrently. Their sex ratio was 1.8:1. When grouping the patients according to the site of the lesion in EEG, 53 children proved to have a local lesion showing the ratio of 2.7:1 to children without it. Among 53 children, 27 had focal seizure while 26 had secondary encephalopathy. The frequency of epileptiform discharge was 18% in no/rare, 10% in occasional, and 72% in frequent group while showing 0%, 43% and 68% rate of concurrency with PET each with high correlation (p = 0.001, r = 0.491). Severity of non-epileptiform discharge was classified as no, mild, moderate, and severe and were 21%, 34%, 23%, and 22% of the whole group along with 13%, 52%, 65%, 69% of concurrence rate (p = 0.001, r = 0.365). According to EEG study, 29% of focal lesion was located in frontal, 14% in centrotemporal, and 8% in occipital area. 22% showed lateralization and 27% without it. The rate of concurrency between epileptiform discharge and PET according to the location of focal lesion was 67%, 80%, 67%, 75%, and 5% (p = 0.001). The same rate was 57%, 30%, 50%, 88%, 25% (p = 0.002) between non-epileptiform discharge and PET showing certain difference. 10 patients went through operation. 6 showed concurrent result in PET and PET-EEG and 4 out of them had concurrency with 24 hr video EEG and brain MRI as well. They had no seizure event after the surgery and proved to have cortical microdysgenesis or dysplasia in pathologic evaluation. Conclusions: Epileptiform discharge and non-epileptiform discharge in EEG showed certain association with hypometabolim in PET study. In conclusion, we recommend PET-EEG to reduce false lateralization and to localize lesion in cases of high frequency or severity. 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2 Micah Brown, and 2,3 Don M. Tucker ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesics, Inc., Eugene, OR ; and 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ) Rationale: This study was undertaken to examine the spatiotemporal dynamics of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) in temporal lobe epilepsy by applying methods that improve both spatial localization and temporal precision in mapping the rapidly evolving discharges. Methods: Eight patients with temporal lobe epilepsy underwent dense array 256 channel scalp EEG recordings. Localization of IEDs at 10 msec intervals in relation to a standard MRI model was accomplished with dipole fits and with two distributed linear inverse methods of source analysis, using probabilistic gray matter voxels as source constraints. The results were compared to conventional EEG waveform interpretations and the limited source analysis possible with conventional EEG. Results: The three methods of source localization yielded convergent results. The initial onset of the averaged IED localized to one basal-mesial temporal lobe. Adjacent temporal lobe regions become involved within 10?20 msec. In several patients, there was rapid spread to the opposite temporal lobe and, in some cases, to extratemporal regions before returning to the original temporal lobe. Both temporal lobes often were sources for IEDs. Each IED showed unique propagation patterns. Initial IED temporal involvement was concordant with the site of surgery in most subjects. Restriction of mapping to a conventional EEG montage resulted in fewer IED detections and frequently misleading results from both visual inspection and source localization. Conclusions: Discerning the rapid propagation of IEDs in temporal lobe epilepsy can be achieved by applying source analysis to dense array recordings. Dynamic brain mapping improves discharge detection, reduces margin of error in source analysis calculations, enhances reliability of anatomic localization of discharges with msec resolution, and yields insight into cortical network involved in epileptic discharges. 1 Yue-Loong Hsin, 2 Tomor Harnod, and 1 Shin-Zong Lin ( 1 Neurology, Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan ) Rationale: Because of the excellent therapeutic effect and high safety of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in certain neurologic disorders, its clinical application has been extended to the treatment of epilepsy. Therefore, the procedure of stimulation electrode implantation provides an opportunity for studying neurophysiology of deep brain structures. We investigated the ictal EEG activity of subthalamic nucleus (STN) in treatment of patient with refractory epilepsy by deep brain stimulation (DBS). Methods: Seven patients with refractory epilepsy underwent implantation of DBS leads into bilateral STN. In addition to the extension of STN leads as intracranial EEG electrodes, subdural strips were implanted to the corresponding cortical regions of epileptogenesis. To obtain ictal and interictal epileptiform discharges, prolonged video-EEG recording was performed before delivering electric impulses into the STN. In a patient, the intracranial EEG was co-registered with electromyography of muscles involved in the myoclonic seizures. Results: Over 50 epileptic seizures including partial seizures, atypical absence seizures, myoclonic seizures, tonic seizures, tonic-clonic seizures, and unclassified seizures were recorded. Ictal EEG activities in the STN had fast alpha activity, rhythmic spiking, and quasi/periodic spike/polyspike-and-slow-wave complexes that were not different from cortical epileptic patterns. Where there were bilaterally synchronous and rhythmic spikes and spike/polyspike-and-slow-wave discharges in generalized seizures would be faithfully reflected at bilateral STN simultaneously with opposite polarity. Additionally, myoclonic bursting was present at the STN. Conclusions: The STN generates epileptic EEG activity. The STN participates in the network interactions between cortical and subcortical structures. Diverse seizure activities of the STN reflect the pathogenesis of epilepsy that should influence the outcome of STN DBS. 1 Mohammed M.S. Jan ( 1 Neurosciences, King Faisal Specialist Hospital  2 Pediatrics, University of California at Irvine College of Medicine, Irvine, CA ; and 3 For OC Kids, Orange, CA ) Rationale: In a tertiary care center, we performed video-EEG monitoring on 32 autistic children, and found that 19 had interictal epileptiform abnormalities (IEAs). All recorded seizures in this group were non-epileptic. Therefore, we question whether the IEAs in these children represent an intrinsic part of the autistic phenotype Methods: Video-EEG monitoring studies of autistic children (n = 32) were compared with those of non-autistic children with other cerebral disorders (n = 20). This comparison group included children with developmental delay, learning disability, and attention deficit disorder, who like to autistic group, underwent continuous EEG or video-EEG monitoring to exclude epileptic seizures. None of the patients from either group proved to have epilepsy. Specific parameters that were examined included the occurrence of IEAs and the types, i.e., focal, multifocal, and generalized IEAs. Results: The autistic group consisted of 27 boys and 5 girls with a median age of 5 years (2?13 years). The comparison group consisted of 12 boys and 7 girls with a median age of 7.5 years (1?18 years). Nineteen of the 32 (59%) autistic children and 12 of the 20 (60%) children in the comparison group had IEAs, respectively. Of these children with IEAs, 11 of 19 (58%) in the autistic group and only 3 of 12 (25%) in the comparison group had generalized IEAs. Multifocal IEAs also tended to occur more often in the autistic group than in the comparison group (32% vs. 8%). In contrast, focal IEAs tended to predominate in the comparison group (75%) compared to the autistic group (42%), although a minority of patients in each group had co-existence of focal/multifocal and generalized IEAs. Conclusions: IEAs may occur in non-epileptic children with a variety of cerebral disorders. However, the abnormalities in children with autism tend to differ from those of a similar cohort without autism. Specifically, generalized IEAs may constitute an intrinsic part of the autistic phenotype. 1 Oh-Young Kwon, 1 Yeongsoo Kim, 1 Ki-Jong Park, 1 Nack-Cheon Choi, and 1 Byeong Hoon Lim ( 1 Department of Neurology, Gyeongsang National University College of Medicine, Jinju, Gyeongnam, Korea ) Rationale: True anterior temporal electrodes (TATEs, T1 and T2) are as effective as mini-sphenoidal electrodes, and significantly superior to anterior temporal electrodes (ATEs, F7 and F8) to detect epileptiform discharges. In addition, non-invasiveness makes TATEs more useful in clinical application. Low Resolution Brain Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA) is a mathematical model for the reconstruction of current source from digitalized scalp electroencephalography (EEG). Using LORETA, we investigated the current source distribution patterns of interictal spikes on TATEs and those on ATEs respectively, and tried to find the difference between them. Methods: In the each digital scalp EEG of epileptic patients showing the interictal spikes of maximum amplitude on T1, T2, F7 or F8, we selected the most typical spike. The EEGs of ten patients were enrolled for the spike on each electrode respectively. All the 40 patients were epileptics and had complex partial seizures. The EEG data were collected from 21 channels using an average reference montage. In each typical spike, one time frame showing the highest amplitude of global power field was selected and LORETA image was acquired using that time frame. The average LORETA images for each electrode were obtained respectively. The Statistical non-Parametric Map (SnPM) between spikes on T1 and those on F7, and the SnPM between the spikes on T2 and those on F8 were acquired. Results: The current source density in the average LORETA image of T1 spikes were maximum in Brodmann areas (BAs) 20 and 21. That of T2 spikes were maximum in BAs 13 and 21. The current sources of T1 and T2 spikes were mainly located in the anterior temporal area, and rare in the frontal lobe. The current source density in average LORETA image of F7 spikes were maximum in BAs 21, 13, 45 and 46. That of F8 spikes were maximum in BAs 13, 21 and 11. The current sources of F7 and F8 spikes were mainly located in the anterior temporal area and it was also observed in the insular cortex and the inferior frontal area. The difference of current source density in the SnPM between T1 and F7 spikes was maximal in BA 22 and minimal in BA 45. That difference between T2 and F8 spikes was maximal in BA 29 and minimal in BA 6. Conclusions: Both of TATEs and ATEs may mainly reflect the current source of the anterior temporal area. The current source of the inferior frontal gyrus may be more easily detected by F7 than T1 and that of the superior temporal gyrus by T1 than F7. The current source of the superior frontal and precentral gyrus may be more easily detected by F8 than T2 and that of the posterior cingulate gyrus by T2 than F8. Thus TATEs may have less influences of the current source of the frontal lobe and reflect the current source of the temporal area more specifically than ATEs. 1 Pål G. Larsson, and 1 John Wilson ( 1 Department of Neurodiagnostics, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Norway ) Rationale: The last ten months we carried out a total of 440 recordings of which more than 200 had a manifold increase of epileptic activity during sleep. The majority of these patients had a seizure disorder, but some had only cognitive and/or behavioural disorders. The purpose of this study was to characterize the epileptic activity and relate it to the clinical diagnosis. Methods: All recordings, including at least one night, with epileptic activity during sleep were included. Since many patients had recordings before and after start of drug treatment, only the first recording was included, in total 114. Referrals, and other available information were used for diagnosis. The patients were grouped as having epilepsy, attention deficit (ADHD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or Landau-Kleffner syndrom (LKS). Spike index was calculated as the fraction of time when there was less than 3 s between spikes in 10-minutes epochs. Results: The mean age of the patients was 11 years. There was only one patient below the age of five and three above 17. The mean spike wave index for the whole group was 45.6% during slow wave sleep, 15.8% during REM-sleep and 9.4% awake. The mean number of detected spikes was 15872 during sleep. In the patient group with seizures the mean increase in epileptic activity from awake to sleep was 81.4 times. In patients without seizures the mean increase was 51 times (n = 16). The difference is not significant (p = 0.33). ADHD, ASD and LKS in patients without seizures had a mean increase of 38.1 (n = 5), 9.5 (n = 2) and 22.9 (n = 4) times respectively. The mean inter spike interval during slow sleep was 1.1 s in the seizure group and 2.4 in the non-seizure group (p = 0.0034). Conclusions: There was a significant longer inter spike interval in the group without seizures compared to the epilepsy group. This may indicate that higher spike frequency increases the change of clinical seizures. The increase in epileptic activity during sleep was highest in the ADHD group without seizures, but the difference did not reach significance compared to the epilepsy group. The suprisingly high increase in epileptic activity during sleep in the ADHD group warrants further studies. All groups showed large spread that partly reflects the age differences and partly may be due to heterogeneity in the groups. 1 Tobias Loddenkemper, and 1 Richard C. Burgess ( 1 Department of Epilepsy and Sleep Disorders, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Left hemispheric predominance of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) has been highlighted by a previous study from our center. Lateralization becomes slightly more prominent in adults than in children. However, no data on lateralization of benign focal epileptiform discharges of childhood (BFED) are available. The objective of our study was to determine the distribution, frequency and type of epileptiform abnormalities as a function of age and to compare it with BFEDs and slowing. Methods: The current study retrospectively reviewed all routine (25,935) and multi-hour (5449) EEGs during a consecutive 10 year period. 7704 patients under the age of 18 years were included. All EEGs were read according to a systematic EEG classification system (Lüders et al., 1993). EEGs were reviewed for unilateral epileptiform discharges, unilateral BFED and slowing. The lateralization of the abnormality was counted only once for each patient by including just the first abnormal EEG. Additionally subsequent EEGs of all infants under the age of 3 years with unilateral IED were reviewed for change in lateralization of IED over time. Results: EEG recordings with unilateral regional IED were seen in 612 (8%) pediatric patients; left-sided IED were seen in 260 patients (55%), right-sided in 213 (45%) and both right and left-sided in 139. There was no difference between infants (40 left, 33 right) and older children (220 left, 180 right). BFEDs were seen in 136 (49 left, 50 right, 37 bilateral) out of 7704 pediatric patients (1.8%). No BFEDs were seen under 3 years of age. Continuous unilateral regional slow was seen in 193 patients, with 97 (20 infants) on the left and 96 (18 infants) on the right. Intermittent slow (less than 80% of the recording) was seen in 199 patients (32 infants) on the left (61.6%) and in 123 patients (9 infants) on the right. In 118 infants with unilateral or bilateral regional IED, the lateralization of IED in subsequent EEGs was reviewed. 32 patients with uni- or bilateral IEDs had subsequent EEGs, with localization changed in 9. Two patients converted from left to right (one of these two underwent epilepsy surgery on the left), and none converted from right to left. Five patients with initially left sided and two with initially right sided IED showed bilateral IEDs subsequently. Two patients with initially bilateral AEDs had subsequently right-sided IED in one and left-sided IED in the other. Conclusions: Regional epileptiform discharges were seen in approximately 8% of patients. Interictal epileptiform discharges and intermittent slow were more frequently seen in the left hemisphere. Age adjusted analysis of the data showed no difference between infants and older children. Continuous slow and BFEDs were equally distributed between both hemispheres. Longitudinal follow up of consecutive infant EEGs did not reveal a trend towards IED conversion from one side to the other. 1 Fumisuke Matsuo ( 1 Neurology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake, UT ) Rationale: Advanced digital technology significantly improved accuracy of EEG feature analysis, but detection of interictal focal epileptiform transients (IFET) with clinical relevance continues to depend on human visual analysis. Particularly problematic has been the difficult-to-define spatiotemporal IFET profile that experienced interpreters find no difficulty in recognizing and applying to polygraphic EEG analysis. EEG geometry was examined in IFET polygraphic derivations from randomly chosen clinical cases. The primary objective was to delineate the time-series characteristics of well-formed IFET. The secondary objective was to demonstrte polygraphic variations that indicate subtle variation in IFET source location within an area of unit interelectrode distance. Methods: During 2004 a total of 53 standard EEG cases revealed a varying number of IFET. A representative IFET chosen from each case was reformatted in common average reference derivations. One derivation with the largest IFET deflection was chosen, approximating its source to a 10?20 scalp electrode. The 53 representative IFET were reviewed for waveform criteria culled from the literature, and ranked in a descending order by evaluating the degree of fit, when polygraphically superimposed. Well-formed IFET were then reformatted in serial bipolar derivations for detailed examination of the IFET peak and phase relationship. Results: The first 5 ranked IFET referred to common average reference are summarized in Figure. A well-formed IFET consists of 3 major peaks with different waveform. The third (blunt) peak varied most, and attenuated in lesser-ranked IFET. When displayed in a chain of 5 serial bipolar derivations, phase relationship surrounding the IFET peak differed among cases. This finding was confirmed by examining multiple IFET within each case Conclusions: Digital technology enables the viewer to reformat EEG data off-line and improve EEG feature extraction. The notion of well-formed IFET is elementary, but robust, because it allows to supplement voltage criteria with additional clinically relevant geomatric paramaters, and can improve automated IFET screening and source modeling. Demonstration of phase relationship surrounding the IFET peak specific to each case confirmed the feasibility of demonstrating subtle variation in location of an equivalent current dipole relative to head-surface electrodes. This method is easy to apply in clinical settings and can expand the scope of EEG analysis in space domain. 1 Daniela Minecan, 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Lawrence Hudson ( 1 Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Nonconvulsive status epilepticus(NCSE) is a heterogenous entity, often associated with subtle clinical signs. There are few reports on the electroencephalographic(EEG) patterns in such patients of pediatric age range. NCSE can be further subdivided into 2 groups: complex partial and generalized. Electroencephalograms(EEGs) are known to have a fairly high degree of sensitivity and specificity for identifying NCSE.Some of the patterns previously described in association with NCSE in the pediatric patients include: generalized synchronous discharges, alpha coma, burst suppression pattern. We describe an unusual pattern that was observed in three of our patients that presented with mental status(MS) changes and were diagnosed with NCSE. Methods: Three patients(age 3?8 years) who presented with MS changes and decreased responsiveness were evaluated at the University of Michigan Hospital. Clinical features(age at presentation, previous history of any kind of seizures, duration of symptoms) and EEGs were assessed. Other diagnostic tests were obtained in each of the patients, according to the clinical presentation. The EEGs were performed with a number of standard bipolar and referential montages, according to the international 10?20 system of electrode placement. All three patients were loaded with antiepileptic drugs, and two of them required antibiotic treatment as well. Results: In two of the patients, the background activity was characterized by very high amplitude(>250uV) delta activity(1?2Hz) and which was diffusely distributed. This was at times rhythmic, but without clear evolution. In one patient, there were multifocal independent sharp waves noted, with no specific hemisphere predominance. In the other patient, independent right/left frontal sharp waves were present. The third patient EEG was notable for a very high amplitude delta activity(1?2Hz) over the right hemisphere and loss of faster frequencies within the same region. Bursts of high amplitude rhythmic 2.5 Hz spike and wave activity, up to 15 seconds in duration, were present over the left frontal region and less often over the left temporal region. No distinct clinical events were noted, other than the MS changes. All EEG patterns improved in paralel with the clinical symptoms, with gradual return of the MS to the previous baseline status. Conclusions: The very high amplitude rhythmic delta activity, whether focal or generalized, is an unusual and not previously described EEG pattern in NCSE. All our patients were younger than 10 years at the time of onset, which raises the question of an age dependent underlying pathophysiologic mechanism responsible. More EEG studies of patients in NCSE will need to be observed in order to confirm how prevalent this EEG pattern might be and to better characterize its clinical associations(e.g.age, etiology). This may also contribute to the better and early identification of this category of patients and rapid institution of treatment. 1 Hian-Tat Ong, 2 Karen J.L. Lim, 1 Poh-Chan Low, 2 Stacey K.H. Tay, 1 Shang-Chee Chong, and 2 Poh-Sim Low ( 1 Children's Medical Institute, National University Hospital, Singapore, Singapore ; and 2 Paediatrics, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore ) Rationale: Hyperventilation (HV) is an important activation procedure during routine pediatric electroencephalograph (EEG) recording. Nevertheless, there is little scientific evidence to allow standardization of the HV procedure, in particular the duration of HV required, to be deemed adequate. We attempt to determine the adequacy of HV in pediatric subjects during EEG recording, by assessing the degree of EEG build-up of slow activity and the corresponding non-invasive end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2) measurement. Methods: Following informed consent by the parents or adult caregivers, we assessed a total of 117 pediatric subjects aged 5 to 16 years who were scheduled for routine EEG studies during a 3-year period from April 2002 to March 2005. The inclusion criteria were the subject's ability to perform adequate HV and a normal waking EEG background. All subjects performed HV for 4 minutes. An electronic metronome was used to synchronize the over-breathing for all subjects in order to achieve an optimal respiratory rate of 30 per minute. A nasal cannula was attached to the subject and the EtCO2 values were recorded using a Nellcor NPB-75 capnometer. The EEG build-up of slow activity was categorized according to the severity of slowing within a 10-second epoch of the EEG recording, as previously reported by Yamatani et al. The four categories consisted of: an increase in amplitude but no intermixed slow waves (+), mild or partial transient slowing (++), moderate slowing (+++), and marked slowing with disappearance of background activity (++++). Results: The mean EtCO2 values and their standard deviations after starting HV were (30.7 ± 5.0) mm Hg at 1 minute, (27.7 ± 5.0) mm Hg at 2 minutes, (26.2 ± 4.8) mm Hg at 3 minutes, and (26.1 ± 4.9) mm Hg at 4 minutes. The number of subjects showing the 4 different degrees of EEG slowing at various time periods after commencing HV is shown in the table. Conclusions: Our study showed that when performing hyperventilation, there was a correlation between the EtCO2 values achieved and the degree of EEG slowing present, for the duration of HV till 3 minutes. However, the EtCO2 values and the degree EEG slowing did not show a significant difference between HV for 3 minutes versus HV for 4 minutes. Thus, the results of our study suggest that good hyperventilation effort for 3 minutes is sufficient and this could be used for standardization of the duration of HV required in routine pediatric EEG recording. (Supported by National Healthcare Group (Singapore) cluster research fund: Grant Number NHG-PRP-01139.) Number of subjects showing different degree of EEG slowing during various intervals of HV Degree of EEG slowing + ++ +++ ++++ HV at 1 minute 56 49 12 ?0 HV at 2 minutes 33 57 24 ?3 HV at 3 minutes 22 57 28 10 HV at 4 minutes 31 51 25 10 1 Maryann Pelkey, 1 Sanjeev V. Kothare, 1 Geoffrey Harrison, and 1 Divya S. Khurana ( 1 Section of Neurology, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Attainment of sleep during an EEG is important as interictal epileptiform discharges are often enhanced during drowsiness, stage I and stage II sleep and transition from drowsiness to arousal. Sleep deprivation is often used as a technique to obtain sleep during a routine EEG recording while some EEG laboratories routinely sedate young children to obtain a sleep recording. Both techniques have their drawbacks. Hyperventilation during an EEG is often followed by drowsiness; we therefore hypothesized that hyperventilation early in the course of an EEG would encourage sleep production. Conversely, photic stimulation early in an EEG delays sleep due to its arousing effect. Methods: This was a prospective study of children over the age of 2 years who were scheduled for a non sleep deprived EEG between 9?11 am in the Neurophysiology Laboratory of a tertiary children's hospital over a 3 month period. The first 32 children received photic stimulation in the beginning of the EEG and hyperventilation at the end; the next 32 children were hyperventilated early in the course of the EEG and photic stimulation was performed at the end of the EEG. Both groups were assessed for presence or absence of sleep during their EEG recording. Results: One of the 32 (3.1%) children in the first group who received photic stimulation in the beginning of the recording transitioned to sleep. Twelve of 32 children (37.5%) who hyperventilated at the beginning of the recording attained stage II sleep. This was statistically significant (p = 0.001). Conclusions: Hyperventilation performed early during an EEG increases the likelihood of attaining sleep, while photic stimulation early in the recording decreases the chances of inducing sleep. Therefore, in order to optimize attainment of sleep, pediatric neurophysiology labs should routinely begin the EEG with hyperventilation and end with photic stimulation 1 Mark Quigg, 2 Boris Kovatchev, and 2 Daniel Cox ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; and 2 Psychiatric Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: Driving performance is a skill in which impaired vigilance due to diabetic hypoglycemia (HG) has both personal and public health consequences. Studies with the use of a driving simulator show that driving impairment occurs coincident with impaired vigilance measured by EEG that accompanies onset of hypoglycemic symptoms. We evaluate whether recent driving history or awareness of HG during driving are associated with changes in EEG-vigilance measured while driving during euglycemia (EG) or during HG. Methods: Simulated driving was monitored in two 30 minute trials on 2 consecutive days. During EG driving, blood glucose (BG) was maintained through an insulin clamp to levels ?100 mg/dl. For HG driving, BG was gradually decreased from an initial target of ?70 mg/dl to ?50 mg/dl. Self-treatment of hypoglycemia was scored as ?present ? or ?absent? depending on whether the patient drank a ?sugar soda? (a non-sugar, diet soda) to correct perceived HG symptoms during simulated driving. Recent driving mishaps were scored according to the patients' self-report of driving accidents or moving citations within the past two years. Multi-channel digital EEG was acquired was acquired during simulated driving trials. Relative EEG spectral power data was averaged into five-minute epochs to correspond with BG sampling rate. The difference between relative alpha and theta powers at the central vertex (ATDiff) was used to quantify vigilance. Outcomes were modeled using binary logistic regression with self-treament (+/?) and driving mishaps (+/?) as dependent variables, and BG and ATDiff during EG and HG epochs as independent variables.? Results: Thirty-two subjects completed both EG and HG trials. 60% self-treated HG during HG driving, and 68% admitted to recent driving mishaps. Driving history and self-treatment were not significantly associated (Chi square = 2.54, p = 0.28). Subjects overall showed increasing delta power with decreasing BG. In the case of driving mishaps, increasing ATDiff during both EG (B = 4.13, p = 0.008) and HG (B = 3.41, p = 0.02) driving trials predicted driving mishaps. In the case of self-treatment of HG, decreasing ATDiff during HG driving did not significantly predict self-treatment. However, values of ATDiff increasingly diverged with worsening BG, with self-treating subjects experiencing decreasing ATDiff. Conclusions: Task-acquired EEG shows worse vigilance in diabetics who successfully recognize and treat HG. EEG vigilance is impaired in diabetics who have no self-reported history of driving mishaps. These findings suggest that mechanisms independent of EEG vigilance may allow compensation for hypoglycemia-associated performance. 1 Rajesh RamachandranNair, 1 Jacob M. Muthalaly, 1 Manoj Parameswaran, and 1 Vellani T. Ajithkumar ( 1 Neurology, Medicine, Pediatrics, Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, India ) Rationale: Both acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) and Herpes Simplex encephalitis (HSE) can present with alteration in sensorium and seizures. Access to immediate MRI brain may not be available in developing world. Early diagnosis and treatment determines outcome in HSE. Steroids, used to treat ADEM, can be harmful in HSE. Aim of our study was to compare the early electroencephalographic (EEG) findings in ADEM and HSE to aid dignostic differentiation. Methods: Patients presenting with seizures and altered sensorium, who were subsequently diagnosed either as ADEM or HSE based on MRI brain and virological studies (CSF-PCR and rising titer of CSF HSV antibody), were included in the study. EEGs performed within 72 hours after the onset of neurological symptoms were analysed for background activity, interictal epileptiform activity (including periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges-PLEDs) and ictal discharges. Incidence of abnormal EEG patterns in ADEM and HSE were compared using X2/Fisher's test. Results: EEGs were performed within 72 hours in 21 patients (age 2?56 years, mean 18.6 yrs) with ADEM and 32 patients (age 4?72 years; mean 23.7 yrs) with HSE. All 53 EEGs were abnormal due to background slowing or epileptic discharges. Early EEG findings in ADEM and HSE Variable ADEM HSE p value Total No of patients during study period 39 37 - No of patients who satisfied clinical inclusion criteria 23 34 - No of patients who satisfied clinical and EEG criteria 21 32 - Background slowing 19 32 - Generalized 12 18 0.2?? Only Focal ?7 14 - Only Fronto-temporal ?3 14 0.02? Extra-Frontotemporal ?4 ?0 0.02? Epileptiform discharges ?9 24 0.007 Generalised ?2 8 - Focal/Multifocal ?7 16 - Only Frontotemporal ?3 16 0.007 Extra-Frontotemporal ?4 ?0 0.02? PLEDs ?2 10 0.05? BiPLEDs ?0 4 0.12? Seizures ?1 ?7 0.08? Background slowing was seen (generalised  and 2 Center for Health Effectiveness Research, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: Prediction of cognitive function has been difficult in children with epilepsy, since cognitive dysfunction in epilepsy involves multiple causes. We determined whether occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness can independently predict cognitive function in children with focal epilepsy. Methods: A total of 33 children (age: 6?17 years; 20 boys) with focal epilepsy were included in the study. None of the subjects had visual, hearing, or motor deficits. Children with idiopathic childhood epilepsy with occipital paroxysms or central-temporal spikes were also excluded. Occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness with eye closure and interictal spike frequency during wakefulness were quantitatively measured by scalp EEG. Interictal spike frequency was categorized into four groups (0, 0?1, 1?10, and >10 per minute; Asano et al, 2004). A hierarchical multiple regression analysis was performed to determine whether age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency can predict the full-scale IQ independently from spike frequency category and the number of antiepileptic medications taken by the patient. Results: An analysis of the zero-order correlations revealed that each of the three predictors (age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency, spike frequency category and the number of anti-epileptic medications) is about equally correlated to full-scale IQ and each of these predictors accounted for 20%?23% of the variance (p < 0.01 for all three predictors). In a hierarchical multiple regression analysis, the categorical measure of spike frequency and the number of medications used were entered in the first step and accounted for 31% of the variance in the IQ measure (F(2, 30) = 6.77, p = 0.004). In a second step of the analysis the age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency was entered and accounted for an additional 13% of the variance (F(1, 29) = 6.49, p = 0.016). Conclusions: Occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness is an important factor independently predicting the full-scale IQ in children with focal epilepsy even after controlling for both interictal spike frequency and the number of anti-epileptic medications. Quantitative measurement of occipital alpha peak frequency and interictal spike frequency data extracted from a single video-EEG session combined with the number of antiepileptic drugs may provide important information for prognosis of overall cognitive function in children with focal epilepsy. (Supported by NIH: K23NS047550.) 1 Michelle J. Shapiro, 2 D. Barry Sinclair, and 3 S. Nizam Ahmed ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada ; 2 Department of Pediatric Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ; and 3 Department of Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Intermittent photic stimulation (IPS) is used routinely as an activation procedure for electroencephalographs (EEGs) in the pediatric population. Photosensitivity is relatively more prevalent in children than in adults. The purpose of this study was to determine the proportion of pediatric epilpetiform EEGs in which photic stimulation altered the overall impression of the EEG, thus adding additional information to the baseline. Methods: One hundred consecutive EEGs performed at the University of Alberta Hospital on patients 18 years or younger, that had unequivocal epileptiform abnormalities and activation by IPS were reviewed. Demographics including patient age, sex, clinical diagnosis, and reason for the EEG were collected. A determination was made as to whether IPS altered the overall impression of the EEG. Results: There were 62 males and 38 females. Forty-two patients were noted to have photic driving. Fifty patients had evidence of epileptic activity during photic stimulation, which was determined not to be linked to the stimulus. In 3 patients, there was epileptic activity during IPS with possibile association to the stimulus. In 3 patients IPS provided information not available otherwise. Out of these 3 patients, one had photosenstive Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy, the second had occipital spikes that generalized during IPS, and the third patient had evidence of occipital dominant spikes and polyspikes during IPS, a finding not seen on the baseline EEG. The finding of photosensitivity did not alter the management plan for any of these patients. Conclusions: This study demonstrates a prevalence of 3% photosensitivity amongst pediatric patients with known epileptic abnormalities on their EEG. These numbers are lower than those described by Wolf and Goosses (1), who reported a prevalence of 10%, in their review of of more than 1000 patients. The discrepancy could be related to the difference in sample size or merely to genetic heterogenity in the different samples. Interestingly all our photosensitive patients were females supporting the previously published literature on higher prevalence of photosensitivity in females. Considering the prevalence of photosensitivity in the epileptic population and the benign nature of the procedure, we support this activation procedure in routine practice. REFERENCE 1.?Wolf P, Goosses R. Relation of photosensitivity to epileptic syndromes. J Neruol Neruosurg Psychiat 1986;49: 1386?1391. 1 Ulrich Specht, 2 Matthias Hoppe, 1 Rupprecht Thorbecke, 2 Alois Ebner, and 1 Bernd Pohlmann-Eden ( 1 Rehabilitation Unit, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 2 EEG-Video-Department, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: The uncertainty of increased risks of seizure provocation due to conditions of the workplace is considered to contribute to the high rates of unemployment in patients with epilepsy. In Germany, the diagnosis of epilepsy frequently leads to restrictions concerning workplaces with computer monitor displays, even in patients without photosensitivity. Current knowledge about photosensitive patients does not give evidence for an increased risk of seizures in such a setting, e.g. because of the high refresh frequencies (≥75 Hz) of modern PC monitor displays; however studies with EEG registration in patients working at a PC monitor display have not been undertaken. Methods: Patients 16 years and older with a documented photoparoxysmal response (PPR), i.e. epileptiform EEG discharges (ED) provoked by intermittent photic stimulation (IPS), were included. They underwent a standardized EEG procedure with simultaneous video recording. It comprised three evaluation periods in randomized order, each lasting 10 minutes: 1) baseline period (resting condition), 2) PC-test period (reading and editing a text at a personal computer using a word processing program), 3) control period (reading and editing a similar text printed on a white paper). For the PC-test period, a commercially available personal computer with a 17 inches cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor display (resolution 800x600 dpi, refresh rate of 85 Hz) was used. The number and duration of ED during each of the evaluation periods were assessed by two blinded examiners. In addition, standard IPS was performed in order to document present PPR. Results: Sixteen patients were evaluated. During the procedure, four did not show PPR on IPS and thus were excluded. In 8 of the remaining 12 patients, ED occurred at least during one of the three evaluation periods. There was no statistical significant increase in number and duration of ED in the PC-test period compared to the control and baseline periods. ED tended to occur more frequently in the baseline period. No clinical seizure was recorded during the study. Conclusions: In accordance with the current literature using IPS, this study does not give evidence for an increased risk of seizure precipitation in photosensitive patients when using a word processing program displayed on a commercially available 17?? CRT PC monitor display. Thus, restrictions concerning workplaces with computer monitor displays such as office work are not warranted. (Supported by UCB Pharma GMBH, Kerpen, Germany.) 1 Ian A. Stein, and 1 Geetha Chari ( 1 Neurology, SUNY-Health Science Centers of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, NY ) Rationale: To characterize EEG abnormalities found on EEGs of pediatric psychiatric inpatients. Methods: A retrospective analysis of all EEGs ordered by the Kings County Hospital Center inpatient pediatric psychiatric unit between July 2000 and December 2004 was performed. EEGs were performed using the guidelines of the ACNS. Clinical information was restricted to the history provided on the EEG request forms. The EEGs were interpreted by a neurologist board certified in clinical neurophysiology. Reports were written according to ACNS guidelines. The results of this study were obtained by analyzing information from these reports Results: Between January 2000 and December 2004 a total of 411 EEGs were performed on patient admitted to the pediatric psychiatry service at Kings County Hospital. 24 patients had repeat studies. 387 EEGs were included into the analysis. There were 282 males and 105 females. The age of patients ranged between 5 and 17 years, with an average age of 11.5 years. 134 patients (35%) had abnormal EEGs 93 patients had a non-epileptiform abnormality (e.g. background slowing, focal slowing) alone, while 26 patients had only epileptiform activity. 20 patients had both epileptiform and non-epileptiform abnormalities. Of the 46 (11.9%) patients with epileptiform activity, 26 patients had focal discharges, and 18 patients had generalized discharges. 2 patients had both focal and generalized activity. Conclusions: There is a greater incidence of EEG abnormalities in our study when compared with previously published data on normal children. While the rates of abnormal EEG findings in our population were similar to those seen in the adult psychiatric patients, epileptiform activity was more frequent in pediatric patients. Further studies are required to determine the clinical significance of these findings. (Supported by SUNY-Health Sciences Center of Brooklyn, Department of Neurology.) 1 James X. Tao, 1 Amit Ray, 1 Baldwin Maria, 1 Sona Shah, 1 Susan Hawes-Ebersole, and 1 John S. Ebersole ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: To determine the cerebral EEG substrates of scalp EEG seizure patterns, and thus to assess the value of scalp ictal recording in the lateralization and localization of seizure onset zones in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: We recorded simultaneously 26 channels of scalp EEG with sub-temporal supplementary electrodes and 46?98 channels of intracranial EEG in presurgical candidates with temporal lobe epilepsy. Subdural electrodes covered the anterior two-thirds of the temporal lobe in all patients. We studied the influence of intracranial EEG source area and synchrony at seizure onset on corresponding scalp EEG correlates. Eighty-six simultaneous intracranial- and scalp-recorded seizures from 23 patients were evaluated. Results: Thirty-four intracranial ictal discharges (40%) from 9 patients (39%) had sufficient source area (namely > 10 cm2) and synchrony at seizure onset to produce a nearly simultaneous focal scalp EEG ictal pattern. Forty-one intracranial ictal discharges (48%) from 10 patients (43%) gradually achieved the necessary source area and synchrony over several seconds to generate a scalp EEG ictal pattern. These scalp rhythms were lateralized, but less localizable. Eleven intracranial ictal discharges (13%) from 4 patients (17%) recruited the necessary source area, but lacked sufficient synchrony to generate clearly localized or lateralized scalp EEG ictal patterns. Conclusions: Sufficient source area and synchrony are mandatory cerebral EEG substrates for generating scalp-recordable ictal EEG patterns. When the necessary source area and synchrony are achieved at or near seizure onset, the scalp EEG pattern can localize the cerebral seizure onset zone. However, if achieving necessary source area and synchrony requires several seconds, during which time more distant propagation may occur, the resultant scalp ictal pattern may only lateralize, but not localize, the seizure onset zone. (Supported by Brain Research Fundation.) 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2,3 Don M. Tucker, 2 Micah Brown, 1,4 Russell P. Saneto, and 5 Jeffrey G. Ojemann ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesics, Inc., Eugene, OR ; 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ; 4 Division Pediatric Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 5 Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: We describe a case report of a subject with intractable extratemporal epilepsy who underwent pre-operative longterm EEG-video monitoring (LTM) with 128 channel scalp recordings, following completion of standard (sparse array) LTM. She underwent subdural, intracranial grid and strip LTM recordings, after standard methods failed to provide adequate seizure localization. We compare the results of seizure onsets predicted on the basis of dense array scalp EEG to that obtained from the invasive recordings. Methods: A 13 year old girl, a potential surgical candidate, presented with medically refractory daily complex partial seizures. Clinical exam and MRI studies were unrevealing. Standard EEGs demonstrated abundant interictal discharges over left posterior quadrant, particularly over left parietal regions (P3). Standard scalp LTM recorded seizures that were poorly localized over the left posterior quadrant. One of her habitual clinical seizures was captured during 48 hours of dense array LTM. Using a linear inverse method of EEG source analysis (LAURA), seizure onset and propagation patterns were displayed on a standard MRI model, prior to invasive studies. Invasive LTM studies included subdural grid and strips placed over the left, and subdural strips placed over the right, posterior quadrants. Results: Analysis of dense array data predicted that seizure onset occurred over the left inferior posterior temporal-occipital regions, followed by rapid spread to right lateral posterior temporal cortex, left lateral posterior temporal cortex, and subsequently to the left superior parietal region. These predictions, including both seizure onset and propagation patterns, were confirmed on analysis of invasive ictal EEG recordings. Surgical resection was performed, based on the invasive EEG data. Conclusions: Dense array EEG, used in conjunction with source analysis and a realistic MRI model, has the potential to localize seizure onsets and propagation patterns, when standard noninvasive methods fail. This is the first report demonstrating that dense array LTM studies are possible, and that predictions based on these studies are confirmed on the basis of intracranial EEG recordings. Future research will determine if the use of these new techniques will reduce the need for invasive LTM in the surgical evaluation of subjects with difficult epilepsy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Speaker Abstracts
JO  - Transfusion Medicine
JA  - Transfusion Med
VL  - 27
IS  - S1
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tme.12416
DO  - doi:10.1111/tme.12416
SP  - 3
EP  - 21
PY  - 2017
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Levi, M.
AU  - Fries, D.
AU  - Gombotz, H.
AU  - van der Linden, Ph.
AU  - Nascimento, B.
AU  - Callum, J. L.
AU  - Bélisle, S.
AU  - Rizoli, S.
AU  - Hardy, J.-F.
AU  - Johansson, P. I.
AU  - Samama, C. M.
AU  - Grottke, O.
AU  - Rossaint, R.
AU  - Henny, C. P.
AU  - Goslings, J. C.
AU  - Theusinger, O. M.
AU  - Spahn, D. R.
AU  - Ganter, M. T.
AU  - Hess, J. R.
AU  - Dutton, R. P.
AU  - Scalea, T. M.
AU  - Levy, J. H.
AU  - Spinella, P. C.
AU  - Panzer, S.
AU  - Reesink, H. W.
TI  - Prevention and treatment of coagulopathy in patients receiving massive transfusions
JO  - Vox Sanguinis
VL  - 101
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1423-0410.2011.01472.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1423-0410.2011.01472.x
SP  - 154
EP  - 174
PY  - 2011
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kitada, Masaaki
AU  - Murakami, Toru
AU  - Wakao, Shohei
AU  - Li, Gen
AU  - Dezawa, Mari
TI  - Direct conversion of adult human skin fibroblasts into functional Schwann cells that achieve robust recovery of the severed peripheral nerve in rats
JO  - Glia
JA  - Glia
VL  - 67
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/glia.23582
DO  - doi:10.1002/glia.23582
SP  - 950
EP  - 966
KW  - axonal regeneration
KW  - myelination
KW  - PNS injury
KW  - re-formation of neuromuscular junction
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Direct conversion is considered a promising approach to obtain tissue-specific cells for cell therapies; however, this strategy depends on exogenous gene expression that may cause undesired adverse effects such as tumorigenesis. By optimizing the Schwann cell induction system, which was originally developed for trans-differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells into Schwann cells, we established a system to directly convert adult human skin fibroblasts into cells comparable to authentic human Schwann cells without gene introduction. Serial treatments with beta-mercaptoethanol, retinoic acid, and finally a cocktail of basic fibroblast growth factor, forskolin, platelet-derived growth factor-AA, and heregulin-?1 (EGF domain) converted fibroblasts into cells expressing authentic Schwann cell markers at an efficiency of approximately 75%. Genome-wide gene expression analysis suggested the conversion of fibroblasts into the Schwann cell-lineage. Transplantation of induced Schwann cells into severed peripheral nerve of rats facilitated axonal regeneration and robust functional recovery in sciatic function index comparable to those of authentic human Schwann cells. The contributions of induced Schwann cells to myelination of regenerated axons and re-formation of neuromuscular junctions were also demonstrated. Our data clearly demonstrated that cells comparable to functional Schwann cells feasible for the treatment of neural disease can be induced from adult human skin fibroblasts without gene introduction. This direct conversion system will be beneficial for clinical applications to peripheral and central nervous system injuries and demyelinating diseases.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - ADAMS, REBECCA L C
AU  - BIRD, ROBERT J
TI  - Review article: Coagulation cascade and therapeutics update: Relevance to nephrology. Part 1: Overview of coagulation, thrombophilias and history of anticoagulants
JO  - Nephrology
VL  - 14
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-1797.2009.01128.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1440-1797.2009.01128.x
SP  - 462
EP  - 470
KW  - anticoagulants
KW  - blood coagulation
KW  - haemostasis
KW  - thromboplastin (tissue factor)
KW  - thrombosis
PY  - 2009
AB  - SUMMARY Coagulation involves the regulated sequence of proteolytic activation of a series of zymogens to achieve appropriate and timely haemostasis in an injured vessel, in an environment that overwhelmingly favours an anticoagulant state. In the non-pathological state, the inciting event involves exposure of circulating factor VII/VIIa to extravascularly expressed tissue factor, which brings into motion the series of steps which results in amplification of the initial stimulus, culminating in the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin and clot formation. The precisely synchronized cascade of events is counter-balanced by a system of anticoagulant mechanisms, which serve to ensure that the haemostatic effect is regulated and does not extend inappropriately. Conversely, in pathological states, these events can escape normal control mechanisms, due to either inherited or acquired defects, which lead to thrombosis. Current anticoagulant therapy, although based on medications that have been in existence for upwards of 80?years, is moving towards targeted therapy for specific coagulation factors and events in the coagulation cascade, based on the current knowledge of the main triggers and key events within the series of reactions that culminates in haemostasis. It remains to be seen whether these newer medications will become first-line therapies for thrombosis in the coming decade. This review aims to elucidate the main events within the coagulation cascade as it is currently understood to operate in vivo, with a brief discussion focusing on hypercoagulable states, and also a short review of the history of anticoagulants as they relate to this model.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Brand, A.
TI  - Fetal, neonatal and paediatric transfusion medicine
JO  - ISBT Science Series
VL  - 2
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1751-2824.2007.00104.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1751-2824.2007.00104.x
SP  - 14
EP  - 21
PY  - 2007
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kato, Motohiro
AU  - Manabe, Atsushi
TI  - Treatment and biology of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia
JO  - Pediatrics International
JA  - Pediatrics International
VL  - 60
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ped.13457
DO  - doi:10.1111/ped.13457
SP  - 4
EP  - 12
KW  - acute lymphoblastic leukemia
KW  - biology
KW  - clinical trial
KW  - treatment
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common pediatric malignancy. In the past ALL was intractable but now the survival probability is as high as 80?90%. Improved supportive care, treatment stratification based on relapse risk, biological features of leukemic cells, and optimization of treatment regimens by nationwide and international collaboration have contributed to this dramatic improvement. While including traditional risk factors (e.g. age and leukocyte count at diagnosis), the treatment has been modified based on biological characteristics (aneuploidy and translocation) and treatment response (assessed by minimal residual disease). Treatment for pediatric ALL typically consists of induction therapy with steroids, vincristine, and asparaginase with or without anthracycline, followed by multi-agent consolidation including high-dose methotrexate and re-induction therapy. After consolidation, less intensive maintenance therapy is required for 1?2 years to maintain event-free survival. Recently, using advanced genomic analysis technology, novel sentinel genomic alterations that may provide more precise stratification or therapeutic targets, were identified. Moreover, in the last decade germline variations have been recognized as similarly important contributors to understanding the etiology and sensitivity of ALL to treatment. A more individualized approach based on genomic features (somatic and germline) and treatment response, the introduction of newly developed agents such as molecular targeted drugs or immunotherapy, and social support including long-term follow up are required for further improvement.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Neuropsychology/Language/Behavior: Adult
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_9.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_9.x
SP  - 59
EP  - 74
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Carla C. Adda, 2 Luiz H. Castro, and 1 Rosa Kashiara ( 1 Division of Psychology, Hospital das Clinicas FMUSP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Traditional neuropsychological testing may fail to detect abnormalities in declarative memory tests in epileptic patients. One possible explanation is that such tests do not adequately measure memory in real life activities. Prospective memory (PM), i.e. cognitive abilities related to remembering a planned intention in the correct setting, may be a more ecological measurement of memory function in daily activities. We studied the performance of patients with left and right mesial temporal sclerosis and normal controls in a prospective memory battery and compared results with performance in the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) and with a self assessment questionaire for memory impairment (QMI). Methods: The battery consisted of six time and event related tasks to be recalled in the adequate situation, such as remembering to tell the examiner that they needed a new prescrition after fifteen minutes and remembering to ask for an personal object taken by the examiner at the end of a 105 minute session.Patients were submitted a neuropsychological test battery during the session, including the RAVLT and were asked to fill the QMI (24 items). Spontaneous and cued recall of the 15 RAVLT words was tested after 7 days. Performance in the PM tests was compared to RAVLT scores and to QMI score. A patient was considered impaired in either MP or RAVLT if performance fell below 2SD of controls. Significant memory compaints were considered if QMI score was 1SD above controls. Sensitivities and specificities for impairment measured by PM and RAVLT were calculated in relation to QMI assessed impairment (gold standard). Results: We studied 28 patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) (17 left) and 18 normal controls, matched by age (38±10 vs 40±12 yrs) and education (11±2 vs 11±2)(age 40 ±2). Left MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in PM and spontaneous recall and in QMI score (p < 0.05). Both left and right MTS performed significantly worse than controls in 7-day cued recall (p < 0.05). Sensitivities in relation to QMI were 56.2% for PM, 50% for RAVLT, 37.5% RAVLT and PM and 68,8% for RAVLT or PM. Specificities were 100% for PM, 83.3% for RAVLT, 100% for RAVLT and PM and 91.6% for PM or RAVLT measured impairment. Conclusions: This prospective memory test was able to differentiate memory performance between left MTS patients and controls. It is has a better specificity than RAVLT in relation to a self assessment memory questionaire. Its sensitivity is increased when used in combination with RAVLT. Further studies should better delineate its use in combination with other tests in the assessment of memory dysfunction in epileptic patients and in patients with memory impairment of other etiologies. 1 Judith Butman, 2 Maria E. Fontela, 2,3 Veronica De Simone, 3 Marina Drake, 1 Cecilia Serrano, 2 Maria B. Viaggio, 2,3 Alfredo Thomson, and 1,3 Ricardo F. Allegri ( 1 Memory Center, Department of Neurolgy, Hospital Zubizarreta, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; 2 Epilepsy Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; and 3 Neuropsychology Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Britanico, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: It has been proposed that behavioral impairment in patients with amygdala dysfunction might be related to an inability to reverse their behavior despite receiving negative feedback. Epileptic patients who undergo anterior temporal lobectomy represent an ?in vivo? model to study the role of amygdala in cognitive flexibility. The aim of this study is to evaluate cognitive flexibility in epileptic patients with amygdala resection when facing negative feedback. Methods: Ten epileptic patients who underwent anterior temporal lobectomy (6 left temporal lobectomy and 4 right temporal lobectomy) were matched for age and education with 10 healthy controls. Subjects underwent an extensive neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric evaluation. To asses cognitive flexibility we used a reversal ?learning task. Results: Patients' mean and standard deviation score were: Beck depression Inventory 8 ± 1.5; PANSS (positive) 10 ± 1.3; PANSS (negative) 14 ± 2.2; PANSS total 28.3 ± 2; verbal IQ 104.2 ± 7, nonverbal IQ 97.2 ± 6, full scale IQ 101.4 ± 6.3. Categories achieved on Wisconsin Card Sorting Test 5.7 ± 0.16. Patients had less number of reversions (mean:9.3) compared to controls (mean: 4.23; p < 0.001), and needed more trials before the first reversion (patients: 23.42 vs controls: 5; p < 0.05). Conclusions: Patients with epilepsy who undergo anterior temporal lobectomy appear to have post operative difficulties to perform a learning-reversal task. Their lack of cognitive flexibility cannot be explained by psychiatric comorbidity, low IQs or a dysexecutive syndrome. 1 Gus A. Baker ( 1 Division of Neurosciences, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom ) Rationale: There is a wealth of evidence to suggest that people with epilepsy, when compared to normal controls, are much more likely to experience a range of neuropsychological impairments. There are a number of factor that have been linked to the causation of these effects including the underlying lesion, the effects of continuous seizures, the sedative effects of AED treatment and the impact of mood. Determining the relative contributions of these various factors has been difficult but previous studies have confirmed cognitive side effects of several antiepileptic drugs such as central slowing, motor slowing and impairment of attention and concentration. The SANAD trial, a randomised controlled clinical trial of standard versus novel antiepileptic drug treatment, represents a unique opportunity to study the natural history of cognitive impairment in patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy who havge yet to be exposed to AED treatment and who have expereinced few seizures. Methods: A standardised battery of neuropsychological tests including measures of psychomotor speed, attention, memory, mental flexibility, tracking tasks, higher executive functioning, mood and patient perceived cognitive effects were administered prior to AED treatment, 3 months and 12 months. Results: There were differences between the epilepsy group and published control data for a number of key domains including: immediate, delayed and recognition memory; new learning; tests of higher executive functioning; sustained attention; and motor speed. These differences were significant at p = 0.001 level. In addition patients also had significantly worse profiles on the profile of mood scale. Conclusions: These results highlight that newly diagnosed patients with epilepsy are already significantly compromised in terms of their neuropsychological and psychological functioning prior to starting AED treatment and exposure to a significant number of seizures. This study will provide and opportunity to study the development of these cognitive effects allowing for treatment and seizure history. It will also allow for the identification of individuals most at risk of developing signficant cognitive difficulties. (Supported by the following pharmaceutical companies: GlaxoSmithKline, Novatis, Jansen Cilag and Sanofi Synthelabo.) 1 William B. Barr, 2 Essie Larson, 1 Kenneth Alper, and 1 Orrin Devinsky ( 1 NYU Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Psychology, Fordham University, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: The Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory ? 2 (MMPI-2) is an objective, self-report instrument that is used frequently to examine personality and psychopathology in patients with epilepsy. One advantage of this test is that it provides validity indicators useful for identifying biases in responding that could potentially invalidate its results. The goal of this study is to examine the rates of invalid MMPI-2 profiles in a sample of patients undergoing VEEG monitoring for the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy. Methods: MMPI-2 profiles were obtained from 126 patients undergoing continuous inpatient VEEG monitoring. The mean age of the sample was 37.1 years (range, 17 to 74 years). The sex distribution was 74.6% female. Non-epileptic seizures (NES group) were identified in 75 patients. Fifty-one patients had VEEG findings indicating partial (n = 30) or generalized (n = 21) epilepsy (ES group). The groups were matched in terms of age, education, and IQ. The NES group had a higher proportion of females (87% vs. 57%, p < .01). All subjects completed the 567-item version of the MMPI-2. Analyses were conducted on standard validity indices, including the L, F, and K-scales, as well as the consistency indices, VRIN and TRIN. We also examined two other validity measures, the Fp-scale and the FBS-scale. The former was developed for assessment of rarely endorsed symptoms in populations with high rates of psychopathology. The latter (FBS, Fake-Bad-Scale) is used for measuring reporting bias in injury claimants attempting to exaggerate symptoms while maintaining a socially desirable appearance. Rates of invalid responding, as defined by scores exceeding published cutoffs, were assessed through standard tests of proportions. Results: Invalid MMPI-2 profiles were identified in 43.6% of the total sample. A significantly higher rate of invalid responding was observed in the NES group than in the ES group (53.3% vs. 29.4%, p < .001). Invalid profiles were obtained in only 18.6% of the NES group and 17.6% of the ES group when limited to analysis of conventional validity indices (e.g., L, F, K, VRIN,  Chi-Square, NS). None of the 126 subjects participating in this study exhibited an elevation of the Fp-Scale. Elevations of the FBS-Scale were observed in 44.0% of the NES group and in 21.6% of the ES group (p < .001). Conclusions: Over 40% of our sample produced invalid MMPI-2 profiles, which raises concern about the prevalent use of the instrument in this population. Rates of invalid responding in the NES and ES groups were the same when identified through standard validity indices. Higher rates of invalid responding observed with the FBS-Scale indicate that patients with NES are twice as likely to produce exaggerated test profiles than patients diagnosed with partial or generalized epilepsy. 1 Brian D. Bell, and 1 Bruce P. Hermann ( 1 Neurology/Neuropsychology, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison, WI ) Rationale: Conventional memory assessment might fail to identify memory dysfunction that is characterized by intact recall for a relatively brief period, but rapid forgetting thereafter. A recent study of auditory and visual selective reminding test performance revealed that temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients demonstrated poorer memory ability than controls, but there were no group differences in rate of information loss at the 30-minute and 24-hour delay trials (Bell et al., 2005). In addition, at the individual level of analysis accelerated forgetting over 24 hours was not more common in TLE patients compared to controls. Methods: In this study, we assessed Wechsler Memory Scale-3rd ed. (WMS-III) Logical Memory subtest (LM) performance, including immediate memory and recall after 30-minute and 14-day delays, in a control group (n = 25) and a group of individuals with TLE (n = 25). The mean age of epilepsy onset was 11 years (SD = 8). Individuals with a history of right, left, bilateral or indeterminate TLE laterality were included and five of the TLE patients had undergone a left anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) at the time of this study. The results described below were unchanged when the ATL patients were excluded. Results: Group analysis: A 2 X 3 (Group X Trial) univariate ANOVA for LM free recall raw scores revealed main effects of group and trial, but no significant group X trial interaction effect. T tests revealed that the control group performed significantly better than the TLE group on the immediate, 30-minute delay, and 14-day delay trials. Individual analysis: Memory impairment was defined as a score ≥ 1 standard deviation below the control group mean. Examination of raw scores revealed that the TLE group had a significantly higher percentage of individuals with impairment at the immediate and 30-minute delay trials, but not at the 14-day delay. Moreover, none of the TLE patients versus three controls (12%) showed memory impairment solely at the 14-day trial. When examining percent retention scores, only 4% of the individuals with TLE versus 20% of the controls were unimpaired after 30 minutes but impaired after 14 days. Conclusions: Accelerated forgetting over a 14-day delay was not present on a widely used story memory test (WMS-III LM) in a group of individuals with TLE. This evidence suggests that the conventional 30-minute delay utilized in clinical neuropsychological evaluations typically is sufficient for measuring memory functioning in TLE patients. Future study of word list retention after a delay of weeks in subsets of TLE patients with clearly lateralized seizures would further test this hypothesis. (Supported by NIH grants NS 37738, NS 42251, and MO1 RR03186 (General Clinical Research Center).) 1 Patient characteristics Patient 1 Patient 2 Age of sz onset 17 14 Age at WADA 43 41 Handedness right right Yrs of education 13 12 Previous surgery right anterior temporal lobectomy left anterior temporal lobectomy Current sz localization right frontal left temporal 1 Donald B. Burton, 1 Pradeep Modur, 1 Rebecca Woods, 1 Edgar Pererra, and 1 Mike Gruenthal ( 1 Neurology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: WADA testing is a standard part of the work-up for epilepsy surgery, and assesses the likelihood of new post-surgical language/memory deficits. We present the WADA results of two patients who had undergone anterior temporal lobectomy, but who had not been evaluated using the WADA. To our knowledge the results of WADA testing in patients who have already undergone anterior temporal-hippocampal resection has not been previously reported. These cases allow for a comparison of the following conditions in regards to memory function: dominant hippocampus, nondominant hippocampus, and no hippocampus. Methods: Our WADA procedure includes a mental status exam, memory acquisition, sequential language testing, and memory recognition. The demographic and surgical data of our cases is detailed in Table 1. Patient 1 had previously undergone a right anterior temporal lobectomy and patient 2 had a left anterior temporal lobectomy. Neither surgery resulted in seizure control, necessitating a new surgical work-up. Results: Results reveal that both patients are left hemisphere dominant for language. The right hemisphere resection patient did not sustain a disruption in memory function as the result of right hemisphere injection, while injection of the dominant hemisphere disrupted memory. In contrast, the left hemisphere resection case displayed more functional memory deficit after nondominant hemisphere injection, while injection of both hemispheres suppressed memory compared to baseline. Figure 1 reveals that the no hippocampus condition resulted in total suppression of memory function for both cases. When the dominant hippocampus was functioning in isolation no disruption of memory function was noted compared to baseline. When the nondominant hippocampus was functioning in isolation memory function was significantly diminished, but not completely suppressed. Conclusions: Current results support the hypotheses that there can be a dominance for memory function that is not solely based on material specificity. Second, resection of the dominant hippocampus results in greater memory impairment compared to resection of the nondominant hippocampus. Third, current results suggest that the nondominant hippocampus can support memory function to an extent, although not at the level of the dominant hippocampus. Finally, our results highlight the need for a comprehensive presurgical work-up. 1 [Memory Assesment: collapsed across cases (% of targets recongnized correctly).] 1 Robyn M. Busch, 1 Heather D. Stott, 1 Thomas W. Frazier, 1 Richard I. Naugle, 2 Imad Najm, and 3 William Bingaman ( 1 Psychiatry  2 Neurology, Epilepsy  and 3 Neurosurgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) have higher rates of depression and anxiety than patients with other focal epilepsies or generalized seizures. Memory problems are common among patients with mood and anxiety disorders as well as among patients with TLE. Given the high prevalence of mood and anxiety disorders and memory problems in patients with TLE, the present study sought to determine if presurgical mood and anxiety scores are useful in predicting memory change following anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) and to ascertain if these scores have incremental validity over presurgical memory and intelligence scores. Methods: This retrospective study examined data from 174 patients with medically intractable TLE (Left = 79; Right = 95) seen for neuropsychological evaluations that included: Depression, Anxiety, Anxiety Related Disorders (ARD), and Mania subscales of the Personality Assessment Inventory; Beck Depression Inventory-II; General Memory Index (GENMEM) from the Wechsler Memory Scale-3rd Edition; and Full Scale IQ (FSIQ) from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-3rd Edition. All patients later underwent ATL for treatment of their epilepsy and completed postsurgical neuropsychological testing. Participants' mean age and education were 34.25 (SD = 11.51) and 12.84 (SD = 2.11), respectively. The mean age of seizure onset was 14.92 (SD = 12.25) and mean duration of seizures was 19.49 years (SD = 12.59). There were no significant differences between the left and right groups in terms of age, race, sex, education, age of seizure onset, or seizure duration. Results: Simple regression analyses were conducted with mood and anxiety as independent variables (IVs) and memory change score as the dependent variable (DV). A hierarchical regression analysis was then computed with presurgical GENMEM and FSIQ scores entered as IVs in step one, the five mood variables in step two, and GENMEM change as the DV. Regression analyses were conducted separately for left and right TLE patients. Results of the simple regression revealed that presurgical mood and anxiety scores were significant predictors of postsurgical change in GENMEM for left TLE but not right TLE patients. Of the mood variables, the ARD subscale made the largest contribution to the prediction. Similarly, hierarchical regression analyses demonstrated that mood and anxiety scores added significantly to the prediction of GENMEM change above and beyond the prediction made by presurgical GENMEM and FSIQ scores among left but not right TLE patients. Again, ARD made the largest contribution to this prediction. Conclusions: This study supports the clinical utility of presurgical mood and anxiety scores in predicting memory change following ATL in patients with left, but not right, TLE. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that mood and anxiety scores add significantly to the prediction of postsurgical memory change beyond the prediction made by presurgical memory scores. 1 Juliana P. DaPaz, 1 Carla C. Adda, 1 Leila M. DaRoz, 1 Leandro L. Valiengo, 1 Carmen L. Jorge, 1 Rosa Maria F. Valerio, 1 Rosa Kashiara, and 1 Luiz Henrique M. Castro ( 1 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Material specific memory deficits are often seen in temporal lobe epilepsy. Patients show verbal learning and confrontation naming deficits. These data were obtained lateralizing patients exclusively by MRI or interictal EEG (iEEG) data. Unilateral mesial temporal sclerosis (uMTS) is often a bilateral disease, with contralateral EEG abnormalities, which may impact on cognitive functioning. We compared neuropsychological scores (NP) in pure unilateral and bilateral uMTS patients. Methods: MRI-diagnosed uMTS, ages (17?55), education >8 yrs, without other MRI lesions or significant psychiatric/neurologic disease. Patients underwent video-EEG monitoring (VEEG), iEEG, WADA test and a NP battery [digit span, vocabulary and object assembly subtests (WAIS III), Stroop I,II,III, Trail Making Test, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), Boston Naming Test (BNT), Verbal Fluency (FAS), Rey Figure (Immediate and Late Recall)]. Patients were divided in four groups: right and left, unilateral or bilateral (RU, LU, RB and LB) by a laterality index obtained from a summated score of iEEG, VEEG and WADA, compared to MRI findings. Normal controls were matched by age and education. Scores on individual neuriopsychological tests were compared among all groups and controls. Results: 54 patients (30 or 56% men), 29 (or 54%) left MTS, education (10.6 ± 2.1yrs.) and 18 controls (4 or 22% men) education (11.1 ± 1.1yrs). 13 were RU, 20 LU, 12 RB and 9 LB.When comparing neuropsychological scores using MRI or iEEG isolatedly, classified as left or right, left MTS patients performed significantly worse in RAVLT (VI, VII and total score) and in FAS than controls and worse than controls and right MTS in BNT (p < 0.05, all tests) for both MRI or iEEG. When the 4 groups were compared, RU and LU differences disappeared. BL patients performed significantly worse than controls in RAVLT (VI, VII, total score), worse than controls, LU and RB in Stroop II and than RU in BNT. (p < 0.05, all tests). When iEEG was analyzed among the four groups, BL patients performed significantly worse than controls in RAVLT (VI, VII and total score) and worse than BR in BNT. Conclusions: Although it is widely accepted that left MTS patients show deficits in verbal learning and recall as well as confrontation naming, our data suggests that only patients with left MTS on MRI, but with bilateral involvement by other eletrophysiologic criteria (VEEG and iEEG) and cognitive functioning measures (WADA) perform significantly worse in episodic verbal memory and confrontation naming tasks. In this sample, pure left MTS patients do not show cognitive impairment in relation to right MTS patients (unilateral and bilateral) or controls. Bilateral temporal involvement with anatomic and/or functional involvement may be crucial for memory dysfunction in left temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Marina Drake, 2,1 Veronica De Simone, 2 Santiago O'Neill, 2 Maria E. Fontela, 2 Maria B. Viaggio, 2 Alfredo Thomson, and 1 Ricardo F. Allegri ( 1 Neuropsychology Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Britanico, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; and 2 Epilepsy Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) show impairment in confrontation naming tasks. Furthermore naming difficulties have been related to left temporal dysfunction. The objective of this study is to characterize naming difficulties in a group of temporal epileptic patients and further compare naming abilities between patients with right and left temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: Thirty three epileptic patients were matched for age and education with 31 healthy volunteers. Fourteen patients had left TLE epilepsy and nineteen right TLE. All patients were right handed with IQs within the normal range. All subjects were administered an extensive neuropsychological battery. Confrontation naming was explored using the Boston Naming Test adapted version for Argentina. Total number of correct responses and type of errors committed were analyzed. Errors were classified into 5 categories: semantic errors, phonemic errors, visual errors, circumlocutory errors or nonresponse. For analysis purposes only the first 40 naming errors were considered as previous local studies showed that naming deficits in the last 20 pictures is strongly influenced by education and cultural background. Results: The epilepsy group performed significantly worse than controls on a naming test (TLE = 46 ± 6 vs controls = 53 ± 2, p < 0.001). Type of errors were: 42% semantic, 32% nonresponses, 13% circumlocutory, 9% visual and only 1% phonemic errors. No naming differences were found between right and left TLE patients (p = 0.7). Conclusions: Temporal lobe epilepsy patients showed poor performance on a naming task compared to control subjects further supporting the language deficit observed in this population. The most common type of errors (anomia and semantic) reflect dysfunction of the semantic system. Surprisingly, no differences were found when right and left temporal epilepsy patients were compared. This finding might reflect functional reorganization of language-related neuronal networks in temporal lobe epilepsy. 1 Jelena Djordjevic, 1 Viviane Sziklas, 1 Dominique Piper, 1 Sidonie Penicaud, and 1 Marilyn Jones-Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University ) Rationale: Auditory naming tasks may be more appropriate than visual ones as a measure of potential word-finding difficulties in patients who are candidates for resection from the dominant anterior temporal lobe (1). We wished to optimize clinical usefulness of the existing auditory naming task (ANT) by creating a French version that would yield results similar to those obtained in English, and by increasing the number of items so that auditory naming results could be compared more directly with those from visual naming. Methods: To facilitate a more direct comparison of auditory naming with the visual naming task used most commonly (Boston Naming Test; BNT), we increased the number of items on the existing auditory naming task from 50 to 69 by adding 19 new items, then testing 119 healthy volunteers (53 francophone, 66 anglophone) on this longer version, and finally keeping the 60 items that gave the clearest results (i.e., elicited greatest agreement, fewest synonyms). To maximize equivalence between English and French versions, we compared results from anglophone and francophone subjects for each item, rejecting those on which language-group differences were greater than 25%. These normative data were then used to rearrange items in order of increasing difficulty separately in each language. We are now comparing performance on the revised ANT to BNT in patients (n = 20) with epileptic focus in a temporal lobe. Results: Comparison of mean correct responses on the 60-item ANT with those from the BNT showed a small, in absolute terms, but significant (p < .01) difference between tasks for healthy subjects, with BNT yielding the higher scores. There was a main effect of language, showing higher English than French scores on both tasks (p < .01). Patients with a left temporal-lobe focus earned lower scores on both naming tasks compared to those with a right temporal-lobe focus (p = .03); again ANT scores were lower overall than BNT scores. Conclusions: As reported also for the 50-item ANT (1), auditory naming remains more difficult than visual naming for healthy subjects. Thus, despite equating the ANT and BNT for number of items, scores cannot be compared directly, as the difference in difficulty should be taken into account. Our French version of the ANT yields scores that are highly similar to the English, although the French are slightly lower. The French ANT is already proving useful in language evaluation of francophone patients in Quebec. 1. Hamberger M, Seidel W. JINS (2003); 9:479?89. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Robert C. Doss, and 1,2 John R. Gates ( 1 Epilepsy, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, P.A., St. Paul, MN ; and 2 Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: The assessment and diagnosis of psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (NES) in inpatient epilepsy programs is very common (20?50% of admissions). The underlying etiology of NES can reflect a variety of conditions as denoted by the DSM-IV. The aim of this study was to determine the most common psychiatric diagnoses of NES in a comprehensively evaluated sample of patients. Methods: The sample consisted of 58 consecutive admissions to the adult inpatient epilepsy unit who were eventually diagnosed with NES via video-EEG monitoring. The determination of a psychogenic etiology was made after ruling out physiological causes, history review, neuropsychological and personality assessment (i.e., PAI), as well as psychiatric and/or psychological consultation. DSM-IV diagnoses were made by either a consulting psychiatrist or psychologist. Results: There were 58 NES patients (67% female) with an average age, education, and WAIS-III Full Scale IQ of 36.5, 13.2, and 94.0, respectively. Personality testing using the PAI showed a clinical elevation on the Somatic Complaints scale (Mean T-score = 70.0) with Conversion being the most elevated subscale in the profile (Mean T-score = 71.0). The most common preexisting psychiatric diagnoses included Depression (50%), PTSD (13.8%), other Anxiety (17.2%), Somatoform (13.8%), and Substance Abuse/Dependence (12.1%). Sixty-five percent (65%) of the sample reported a history of physical and/or sexual abuse. The final DSM-IV diagnosis for the NES was overwhelmingly Conversion Disorder (74.1%) and Somatoform Disorder NOS (8.6%). The remaining diagnoses for the NES included various anxiety, dissociative, and factitious disorders (17.3%). Conclusions: In an inpatient epilepsy monitoring unit, the vast majority of NES cases confirmed by video-EEG are diagnosed as Conversion Disorder according to DSM-IV criteria. That is, the NES are thought to reflect psychological factors (unconscious or not) that are manifested by pseudoneurological symptoms or deficits. Other less common diagnoses include panic attacks and dissociation associated with PTSD and/or a primary dissociative disorder. An accurate psychiatric diagnosis of NES is important in that treatment will necessarily be dictated by the underlying psychological disorder. Furthermore, diagnostic accuracy relies on a multidisciplinary approach that considers both the patient's medical and psychosocial history and current functioning. 1,5 Mario F. Dulay, 1,2,5 Harvey S. Levin, 1,2,5 Michele K. York, 2,5 Daniel Yoshor, 3 Robert G. Grossman, 4,5 Amit Verma, 4,5 Ian L. Goldsmith, and 4,5,6 Eli M. Mizrahi ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) ; 2 Department of Neurosurgery, BCM ; 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Methodist Hospital ; 4 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, BCM ; 5 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, BCM ; and 6 Section of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, BCM ) Rationale: Depression and anxiety are the most common psychiatric disorders found in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) before and after anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL). Severity of depression is associated with neuropsychological impairment in TLE patients. No previous study has characterized the relationship between the presence of depression/anxiety and changes in memory function after ATL. Methods: We studied 56 patients (ages 17?56 years) who underwent ATL for refractory epilepsy. Patient data were divided into four groups: left-ATL with (n = 10) and without (n = 13) psychiatric disturbance and right-ATL with (n = 17) and without (n = 16) psychiatric disturbance. There were no significant differences between groups in age, education, age at seizure onset, duration of illness, pre-ATL seizure frequency and post-ATL seizure outcome. Retrospective chart review was used to determine the presence of psychiatric disturbance (mood and anxiety disorders), which was based on recommendations for psychiatric treatment after ATL made by the attending neuropsychologist. Patients were included if they had an IQ >84 to ensure that memory deficit was not attributable to generalized cognitive impairment. Memory abilities were assessed an average of 5 months before surgery and an average of 11 months after surgery using the Verbal and Nonverbal Selective Reminding Tests. Results: Twenty-seven patients (48% of the sample) received recommendations for psychiatric treatment after surgery: 13 for mood disorders, 2 for anxiety disorders, and 12 for comorbid mood and anxiety disorders. Repeated measures ANOVA indicated that left-ATL patients with psychiatric disturbance had the largest verbal memory reductions from before to after surgery compared to all other groups (Tukey post-hoc p values <.01). There was also a drop in the number of words recalled by left-ATL patients without psychiatric disturbance, but the reduction was significantly greater for left-ATL patients with psychiatric disturbance. On the other hand, there was slight improvement in verbal recall ability for right-ATL patients after surgery regardless of psychiatric status. There were no significant interactions or main effects for nonverbal memory. Conclusions: Our results suggest that besides side of excision, the presence of depression and anxiety should be taken into account when evaluating verbal memory deficits after ATL. Questions remain regarding whether or not verbal memory deficits will improve after ATL if psychiatric symptoms are remediated with psychotherapeutic or psychopharmaceutic interventions. 1 Darren Fuerst, 1 Adele Haber, 1 Michelle Kieski, 1 Jay Shah, 1 Aashit Shah, and 1 Craig Watson ( 1 Neurology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: List learning has generally been less useful for the localization of temporal lobe seizures than has story recall. It has been hypothesized that executive functions may play a role in the learning, recall, and recognition of word lists. The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which list learning and executive functioning measures are correlated. Methods: A total of 161 subjects took part in the study. Of these, 74 subjects were left temporal lobe epileptics, 55 were right temporal lobe epileptics, and 32 subjects had bi-temporal onset or could not be lateralized by EEG. The word list learning measure used in this study was the CVLT. The variables used from the CVLT were the z-scores of the number of words recalled on Trials 1, 5, and 1?5 total, short delay free and cued recall, long delayed free and cued recall, number of hits and false positives on recognition testing, number of perseverations, semantic clustering, and serial clustering. Executive functioning measures consisted of the Trail Making Testing B, lexical fluency (CFL), and measures from the Wisconsin Card Sort Test, including total responses, total correct, total errors, perseverative responses, perseverative errors, and the number of categories completed. Results: Overall, in the entire sample only Trails B reached statistical and practical significance its relationship with Trials 1, 5, and total 1?5, short delay free recall, short delay cued recall, and long delay free recall. None of the other measures correlated significantly and substantially. When subjects were divided into long delay free recall greater or less than -2, the only correlation of significance was between Trails B and total 1?5, for each group. When left temporal onset patients were examined, only Trails B correlated with trials 1, 5, and 1?5 total, and long delay free recall. For right temporal patients, Trails B correlated with Trials 1?5, short delay free and cued, and long delay free and cued recall. Also, for these subjects a number of WCST measures correlated with these variables. Conclusions: In general, word list learning is not related to executive functioning in temporal lobe epilepsy. This conclusion may be tempered somewhat in right temporal lobe patients, in which the relationship deserves further study. 1 Anna R. Giovagnoli, 2 Rute F. Meneses, and 1 Antonio Martins Da Silva ( 1 Neuropathology and Neurology, ?Carlo Besta? National Neurological Institute, Milano, Italy ; 2 FCHS-Fernando Pessoa University and IBCM-University of Porto, Porto, Portugal ; and 3 ICBAS/IBCM-University of Porto and Hospital Geral Santo Antonio, Porto, Portugal ) Rationale: Although the quality of life (QOL) of patients with chronic brain damage may reflect common stressing conditions, different facets and determinants may characterize the QOL of patients with different diagnosis. This study evaluated patients with partial epilepsy aiming to compare personal dimensions of their QOL with respect to patients with other chronic brain diseases. Methods: Sixty-four adult patients with partial epilepsy (n = 36) and other chronic neurological diseases associated with brain lesion (vascular, tumour, or inflammatory) (n = 28) were evaluated after informed consent. They reported self-evaluation of QOL, mood and cognitive efficiency using the WHO QOL-100 and Spiritual, Religious and Personal Beliefs scales, Beck Depression Inventory, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, and Multiple Ability Self-Report Questionnaire. Neuropsychological tests assessed reasoning, attention, language, visual perception, memory and executive abilities. Results: T statistics comparing the two patient groups did not show any difference in the total WHO QOL-100 score. On the contrary, significant differences emerged in spirituality dimensions, with minor feelings of peace (p = 0.01) and life meaning (p = 0.02) in the epilepsy patients, and in neuropsychological performances (p = 0.01), with higher scores at attention and praxis tests in the epilepsy patients. Although not significantly so, the epilepsy patients were more anxious and depressed but perceived better cognitive abilities than the other patients. In the epilepsy group, the WHO QOL-100 total score significantly correlated with the feelings of peace (r = 0.56, p = 0.006), state-anxiety (r =?0.52, p = 0.01), trait-anxiety (r =?0.58, p = 0.005), and depression (r =?0.62, p = 0.002), as revealed by separate Pearson's tests. In the other patient group, the WHO QOL-100 total score significantly correlated with feelings of life meaning (r = 0.47, p = 0.01), hope (r = 0.536, p = 0.003), openness (r = 0.61, p = 0.001), forgiveness (r = 0.49, p = 0.008), self-esteem (r = 0.62, p < 0.001), state-anxiety (r =?0.78, p < 0.001), trait-anxiety (r =?0.93, p < 0.001), depression (r =?0.79, p < 0.001), and the subjective perception of cognitive efficiency (r =?0.65, p = 0.006). Conclusions: These preliminary results suggest that QOL, as expressed by a single index, may appear similar in epilepsy patients and patients with other chronic brain diseases. However, they differ in spiritual facets, mood, and cognitive abilities. Even if in both groups mood has a central place in the perception of QOL, the subjective appraisal of health may reflect the interaction of different inner factors. Future studies are needed to determine the spectrum of psychological and spiritual facets relating to epilepsy, promoting specific health interventions. 1 David S. Glosser, 1 Dayna A. Leis, 1 Joseph I. Tracy, and 1 Michael R. Sperling ( 1 Neurology, Jefferson Epilepsy Center, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Mood disorders are frequent co-morbidities in epilepsy and may be accompanied by polysomatic complaints. Studies of temporal lobectomy patients have reported post-surgical mood changes with right vs left laterality differences. Among non-epilepsy patients, right hemisphere lesions have been associated with diminished awareness of physical impairments. A sample of right (R) vs left (L) temporal lobectomy S's with pre and 1-yr. post surgical measures was compared to evaluate the effect of surgery and laterality on Anxiety (anx.), Depression (dep.), and Somatization (somat.). Methods: We prospectively studied 20 (L) and 12 (R) side sequentially admitted temporal lobectomy patients, 16 male, and compared Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) Anxiety, Depression, Somatization subtest scores pre and 1-yr. post surgery. Pre-surgical duration of epilepsy, age at surgery, gender, and IQ were assessed. The PAI is a reliable  R = 98. L vs R sample equivalency was challenged by a significantly lower number of R side cases returning for 1 yr. post testing. Females and males, L  while L S's improved only on somat. scores and had no improvement in anxiety or depression. This is consistent with reports that L hemisphere lesions more likely produce mood deterioration; while R damage is associated with decreased appreciation of physical impairment and, occasionally, denial of illness/injury. Alternatively, the combination of L focus and post-surg sz reduction may deprive patients of anti-depressant effects of seizures. Hence, while L side patients' depression and anxiety did not improve, the reduction in seizures produced reduced somat. scores. Though higher post-surgical somatic complaints might have been expected in dominant hemisphere surgery, due to increased threat to language, this did not occur. The greater pre-surgical sz duration of the L patients may reflect reluctance to operate on the dominant hemisphere. Although higher depression, anxiety, and somatization has often been reported among females, this was not seen. 1 Arthur C. Grant, 1 Sayeh Beheshti, 1 Pany Tehrani, 2 Roxan F. Saidi, 1 Olivia Aguilar, 1 Veronica Martin, and 1 Stephanie Moore ( 1 Neurology, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA ; and 2 Medicine, St. Joseph's Hospital, Orange, CA ) Rationale: Limited English language skills complicate neuropsychometric assessment and Wada testing in patients with refractory TLE undergoing pre-surgical evaluation. The patient population at our institution is culturally and ethnically diverse. For many patients English is a second or third language, and is understood and spoken with varying expertise. Although administering the neuropsychological component of the Wada test in a patient's native language is desirable, direct translation of English-language Wada protocols into other languages does not account for cultural or language-specific content. Methods: Our Wada test is a modification of one used at several epilepsy centers. It includes repetition and recall of spoken words and phrases, with additional foil words and phrases used when testing memory performance. Several of the phrases have cultural (e.g. ?My country ?tis of Thee?) and/or language-specific (e.g. ?Mary had a little lamb?) significance that would be lost with direct translation to other languages. We used a combination of culturally congruent substitutions and direct translations to adapt our Wada protocol for use with both Mexican-born Spanish and Iranian-born Farsi speaking patients. In addition, we attempted to preserve phrase length and general semantic content as much as possible. For instance, instead of ?Mary had a little lamb,? the Farsi version uses a strikingly similar line from a well-known Persian nursery rhyme, ?gaveh Hassan chejooreh?? (How is Hassan's cow?), and the Spanish version uses a line from a familiar lullaby, ?Los pollitos dicen pio pio? (The chicks say pio pio). Instead of ?My country ?tis of Thee? we substituted ?Mexico lindo? in the Spanish version and ?zardee-ye man az tow? (My yellowness is from you) in the Farsi version. The latter phrase is part of a traditional exclamation made during a ritual associated with the Persian new year celebration. Medically-trained native speakers administered the protocol to one Farsi speaking and two Spanish speaking patients, under the direct supervision of a neuropsychologist. Results: The procedure was administered without difficulty to all three patients, and was scored using criteria developed for the original English version. In all three patients, Wada memory and language results were consistent with other clinical data, and were incorporated into the surgical decision-making process. Conclusions: Although the number of patients is small, these data suggest that culturally-sensitive adaptations of English-language Wada protocols provide reliable results, and can be used without independent validation in a large number of patients. (Supported in part by NIH K23 NS46347 to ACG.) 1 Jennifer K. Bambara, 2 H. Randall Griffith, 2 Roy C. Martin, and 2 Edward Faught ( 1 Psychology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ; and 2 Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: It has become important to understand the potential cognitive problems that older adults with epilepsy might encounter. We previously demonstrated cognitive impairments in epilepsy seniors. To further investigate potential cognitive declines in epilepsy seniors, we conducted a prospective study of cognitive performance across a three-year time span. Methods: Fifteen epilepsy seniors averaging 68 years of age (range 62?77) at follow-up were studied. Participants had partial-onset seizures for 34 years on average. All participants completed measures of overall cognition, attention, language, memory, construction, abstraction, executive function, and mood at baseline and at an average follow-up interval of 3.1 years. Results: Epilepsy seniors showed worsening executive control over the follow-up period as measured by the Executive Interview Test (EXIT), t(13) =?3.06, p = .009. A trend towards significance was observed for poorer performance on WMS-III Logical Memory I (p = .06). There were no other changes observed in neuropsychological test performance or mood across the follow-up interval (all p values >.10). Conclusions: Across three years, epilepsy seniors had diminished executive control with some evidence of decreased verbal recall. Otherwise, stability in cognitive functioning was observed. Older adults with epilepsy appear prone to selective worsening of executive control. Numerous factors could contribute to executive dyscontrol, including brain atrophy related to continued seizures and/or cognitive effects of medications due to age-related changes in pharmacokinetics. Further study is necessary to determine what factors contribute to worsening executive dyscontrol in epilepsy seniors. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation of America and Centers for Disease Control.) Observed Neuropsychological Performance of Epilepsy Seniors at Baseline and Three-year Follow-up Neuropsychological ?Measure ?Baseline ?Follow-up ?P Value DRS Total Score 129.07 (8.66)? 128.20 (7.49)? .69? DRS Attention 34.80 (1.70) 34.47 (1.30) .44? DRS Initiation 32.67 (3.48) 32.07 (4.37) .54? DRS Construction ?5.20 (1.26) 5.80 (.56) .14? DRS Conceptualization 34.40 (3.58) 32.33 (7.81) .38? DRS Memory 22.00 (2.33) 21.33 (2.47) .47? WMS III Logical Memory Immediate 26.07 (7.98) 22.87 (9.05) .06? WMS III Logical Memory Delay 13.53 (7.30) 11.80 (6.70) .20? WMS III Recognition* 22.33 (2.77) 21.64 (4.27) .52? CFL Word Fluency* 25.79 (10.51) 22.80 (11.76) .33? Boston Naming Test 44.53 (13.55) 43.07 (13.15) .43? WRAT III Reading** 39.77 (4.94)? 40.79 (4.76) .87? EXIT Total Score* 11.71 (3.81) 14.20 (4.23) .009 Geriatric Depression Scale Total Score* 8.79 (4.66) ?8.60 (6.20) .96? *n = 14 participants **n = 12 participants 1 Guadalupe Rojas, 2 Maria Gudin, 2 Amalia Hernández, 2 Ibanez Ramon, and 2 Vaamonde Julia ( 1 Psychiatry, Ntra Sra de Alarcos Hospital, Ciudad Real, Castilla la Mancha, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Ntra Sra de Alarcos Hospital, Ciudad Real, Castilla la Mancha, Spain ) Rationale: Pseudo seizures are paroxysmal alterations in behavior that resemble seizures but are without any organic cause. The objective of this work is to analyze the underlying psychiatric pathology of patients with pseudoseizures in a general outpatient clinic. Methods: A retrospective study of patients that underwent EEG due to a suspicion of pseudo seizures was realized. The clinical history, psychiatry diagnosis and EEG NONITORING were reviewed in sixteen patients (M/F: 10/6), middle age 40,6 years. All of them were studied by EEG monitoring, pseudoseizures seizures were recorded in 10 of these 16 patients, the other six had a high clinical suspicion. In 8 patients coexisted the pseudoseizures with epilepsy, 1 had migraine, 1 was diagnosed o syncopes, the rest of them did not have a clear epilepsy diagnosis. Results: Four patients did not have a clear psychiatric pathology. Five patients were malingering with clear secondary gain. One of the subjects admitted self-induced illness and spontaneously improved after video EEG monitoring. The others ameliorated after retirement from their work. One patient had Alcohol Dependence. Four patients had an Anxiety Disorder NOS, 1 was a Depressive Disorder, 1 patient had an Impulse-Control Disorder NOS, 7 patients were diagnosed of different Personality Disorder, all of those patients were women. The women improved when the socio familial circumstances changed. Men experienced some change when social aspects were modified. Conclusions: The women with pseudoseizures had been diagnosed basically of Personality Disorders. Men had secondary gain, or no clear psychiatric diagnosis. In this study we verify the importance of a psychiatric management to obtain adequate pseudoseizures control. 1 Hajo M. Hamer, 1 Anja Haag, 1 Johannes Dorst, 1 Felix Rosenow, and 1 Susanne Knake ( 1 Neurology, Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany ) Rationale: Identification of eloquent cortex is a crucial issue in the preoperative assessment of patients with medically intractable epilepsy to reduce the risk of postoperative cognitive decline. Functional transcranial Doppler sonography (fTCD) is already a well established tool for language lateralisation. In this study we evaluated a fTCD-paradigm that reliably lateralises to the non-dominant hemisphere. Methods: 30 right handed healthy controls (17 male; 13 female age = 27,1 ± 7,5) participated in the study. While measuring cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) simultaneously and continuously in both middle cerebral arteries (MCA), all patients performed a mental rotation paradigm (cube filled with three ropes had to be rotated mentally to imagine views from different sides). The paradigm consisted of 20 activation and resting periods. In addition, the already established lexical fluency paradigm for language lateralisation was performed. Data were analysed offline with the software Average?, which performs a heart-cycle integration and a baseline-correction and calculated a laterality index (LI) with its standard error of the mean increase in blood flow separately for both MCA during activation. Results: One out of the 30 participants showed atypical right hemispheric language dominance and was excluded from further analysis. 21 participants (72%) of the 29 with left hemispheric language dominance showed right hemispheric dominance in the mental rotation paradigm. 7 (24%) patients generated greater left than right hemispheric activation and one participant did not show any lateralisation. There was no significant correlation between the LI in the mental rotation paradigm and test performance and no significant negative correlation between the LI of the mental rotation and the language paradigm. Conclusions: In more than two thirds of the participants the mental rotation paradigm showed a right hemispheric lateralisation. So far, mental rotation appears to be one of the best paradigm to activate predominantly the non-dominant hemisphere in fTCD. Participants will be interviewed to elucidate whether different especially verbal strategies could be responsible for left hemispheric lateralisation in some participants. Evaluation of this paradigm in epileptic patients is warranted. 1 Cynthia L. Harden, 2 Janice M. Buelow, 3 Joyce Cramer, 4 Carl B. Dodrill, 1 Blagovest Nikolov, and 1 Kenneth Perrine ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ; 2 Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ; 3 Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, West Haven, CT ; and 4 Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Mood disorders are prevalent in persons with epilepsy. As part of the Epilepsy Foundation of America's initiative on mood disorders, a professional education subcommittee developed a survey to assess knowledge of and attitudes and practices towards mood disorders in epilepsy. Methods: The survey entitled ?Mood in Epilepsy Neurology Practice Questionnaire? consisted of 14 questions including three demographic items. A 5-degree Likert scale was developed for most answer choices. The survey was piloted by some attendees of the American Epilepsy Society (AES) meeting in December 2004. Unselected attendees who passed by the EFA booth were asked to complete the anonymous, 1-page survey. Results: Ninety-nine responses were obtained and the total number of answers to selected questions are listed below. 1 How often do you ask epilepsy patients about their mood? Never 2/Rarely 4/Sometimes 21/Often 47/Always 25 2 How much do you think that symptoms of a mood disorder are important factors in determining an epilepsy patient's quality of life? Very little 2/To a mild degree 1/Somewhat 2/Quite a bit 46/A lot 48 3 When you diagnose a mood disorder in an epilepsy patient, how often do you initiate a medication to treat it (medication for depression, anxiety, etc)? Never 4/Rarely 15/Sometimes 37/Often 39/Always 4 4 When you diagnose a mood disorder in an epilepsy patient with a mood disorder, how often do you refer the patient to a psychiatrist for initiation of treatment? Never 2/Rarely 14/Sometimes 34/Often 38/Always 11 5 How frequently do you limit your prescribing of antidepressants because of concern about exacerbating seizures? Always 1/Often 7/Sometimes 31/Rarely 41/Never 18 6 Your age in years 25?35 = 14/35?45 = 38/45?55 = 21/55?65 = 18/65 and older = 1 7 Type of Practice Adult Neuro ?Academic 32/Adult Neuro ? Private 5/Adult Epi?Academic 15/Adult Epi?Private 1/Ped Neuro?Academic13/Ped Neuro ? Private3/Ped Epi ?Academic12/Ped Epi? Private 2 8 Number of Years in Practice 1?9 = 41/10?20 = 18/> than 20 = 27 Conclusions: These results reflect the youthful and highly academic membership of the AES who are well-informed about the importance of mood disorders in epilepsy, and are very likely to either initiate antidepressant medication or refer for that purpose. Further, concern about exacerbating seizures is not a reason for withholding antidepressant medication among these practitioners. These findings suggest that educational efforts regarding mood disorders and epilepy have favorably impacted the practices of AES members, but whether this holds true in a larger group of general neurology practictioners assessed in a less biased manner remains to be determined. 1 Chin-Wei Huang, 1 Yi-Jung Hsieh, 1 Ming-Chyi Pai, and 1 Jing-Jane Tsai ( 1 Epileptology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; Pediatrics, Chi-Mei Foundation Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; Behavioral Neurology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; and Epileptology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan ) Rationale: Cognitive impairment in epilepsy has gained much attention in clinical practice. most of them are focused on the seizure type, age at seizure onset, seizure duration, antiepileptic drugs and epilepsy surgery. Few studies specifically focused on cryptogenic epilepsy. In addition, how the cognitive performance in cryptogenic epilepsy responds to treatment remains elusive. Methods: We investigated the cognitive performance in cryptogenic epilepsy patients with the aid of cognitive ability screening instrument (CASI), based on cross-sectional and longitudinal aspects. One hundred patients met the diagnostic criteria of cryptogenic epilepsy were recruited from a national university hospital. The patients with normal total CASI scores were compared with those with abnormal ones. We also compared the follow-up CASI score after 3 years with the previous one in all cryptogenic epilepsy patients. Demographic and clinical variables of cryptogenic epilepsy patients with normal and abnormal total CASI scores as well as univariate analysis ??Characteristics Normal ?CASI ?(n = 64) Abnormal ?CASI ?(n = 36) ??Odds Ratio ?Confidence ?Interval Age(years) ?<25 17 10 1 - ?25?34 22 ?7 0.36 0.13?1.19 ?35?44 11 ?6 0.80 0.24?3.11 ?>45 14 13 1.37 0.58?3.85 Sex ?male 36 16 1 - ?female 28 20 1.53 0.62?4.60 Education ?<6 years ?4 ?7 3.71 0.14?4.32 ?6-8 years 12 13 5.85 1.01?8.30 ?>8 years 48 16 1 - Disease duration ?<5 years ?7 ?4 1 - ?5?10 years 17 ?7 0.64 0.14?1.69 ?>10 years 40 25 2.41 0.65?5.42 Number of seizure types ???1 31 13 ?1 - ???>2 33 23 2.83 0.66?4.26 Number of AEDs ?none ?8 ?2 1 - ?1 23 10 2.1 0.22?5.66 ?>2 33 24 5.2 0.81?10.73 1 The performance in Cognitive Ability Screening Instrument among patiets with crytogenic epilepsy. Black bar, initial score, gray bar, the following score, A: The group with initial normal total CASI score, B: The group with initial abnormal total CASI score group. Figure 1A. Results: 36% of cryptogenic epilepsy patients showed cognitive impairment. The variables correlated with higher risks of cognitive impairment were lower educational status, number of seizure types, duration of seizure and polytherapy, especially the lower educational status. The correlation between CASI and the MMSE was excellent. As to the follow-up study, the abnormal group showed significant improvement in total CASI score. The normal group showed no significant change. Conclusions: We suggest that in cryptogenic epilepsy, lower educational status remains the most important factor in determining cognitive performance. Adequate treatment with anti-epileptic drugs can improve cognitive performance in previously cognitively impaired patients. (Supported by National Cheng Kung University Hospital.) 1 David Isaradisaikul, 2 Kelly A. McNally, 1 Jason M. Meckler, 1 Michael D. Privitera, 2 Bruce K. Schefft, and 1 Jerzy P. Szaflarski ( 1 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Psychology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) often manifest differently in different patients. Selwa et al. (Epilepsia 2000; 41(10): 1330?1334) developed a system of PNES classification to describe different types of spells. Previous research has demonstrated that patients with PNES are commonly associated with elevations on the hypochondriasis and hysteria scales of the MMPI. In the present study, we sought to investigate the relationship between PNES spell type and MMPI profiles. Methods: We reviewed video-EEG reports and MMPIs in 86 patients diagnosed with definite PNES after inpatient video-EEG monitoring at the University of Cincinnati between January 2000 and March 2003. Definite PNES was defined as habitual spells recorded on video-EEG without an ictal EEG discharge and normal background alpha rhythm during the event. The diagnosis of PNES was based on the results of the prolonged video-EEG monitoring (PVEM), clinical characteristics of the events recorded, and other supporting evidence (e.g., neuropsychological testing/MMPI). Patients with mixed PNES and epileptic seizures were excluded. Based on review of spells, each patient was classified as predominantly or exclusively belonging to the catatonic, thrashing, automatisms, tremor, intermittent, or subjective categories of nonepileptic seizure type based on Selwa's classification. MMPI data were collected on each patient as part of the standard neuropsychological battery obtained prior to discussion of the diagnosis with the patient. Results: We found that the largest groups consisted of patients with intermittent (n = 22), subjective (n = 21), and thrashing (n = 19) types of PNES. Analysis of variance results indicated that there was a significant effect of PNES spell type on MMPI standardized T-scores on a combination of the hypochondriasis scale (1) and the hysteria scale (3) (F = 3.87, p = 0.003). Post-hoc pairwise comparisons with a Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons revealed that patients with catatonic-type PNES had significantly lower scores on scales 1 and 3 than all other PNES types. No other MMPI scales were found to be significantly related to PNES spell type. Conclusions: We found that patients classified with catatonic-type PNES had significantly lower scores on the hypochondriasis and hysteria scales of the MMPI, as compared to all other types of PNES. According to previous research, patients in the catatonic subgroup tended to have a better outcome than other PNES types. This improved outcome in the catatonic group may be related to their decreased pathology on MMPI scales 1 and 3. 1 Donya L. James, 1 Mike R. Schoenberg, 1 Kyra A. Dawson, 1 Pamela Lang, and 1 Mary Ann Werz ( 1 Neurology, University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: There is conflicting data in the literature regarding material-specific memory deficits in patients with epilepsy (Kim et al., 2003). Some research suggests that patients with left hemisphere seizure lateralization have decreased capacity for verbal memory while patients with right hemisphere seizure lateralization have decreased capacity for visual memory. Subsequent research has not been able to fully confirm these findings. Methods: The participants were 23 patients diagnoses with epilepsy whose seizure lateralization evaluation including the Wechsler Memory Scale- 3rd Edition. Results: Primary Index scores [e.g. Auditory Immediate Memory (IM), Visual Immediate Memory (VI), General Memory Immediate (IM), Verbal Memory Delayed (AD), Visual Memory Delayed (VD), Auditory Recognition Memory Delayed (ARD), and General Delayed Memory (GM)] were compared using ANOVA. Significant differences were found between AI index scores and ARD index scores. Patients with right hemisphere seizure lateralization scored significantly better on both indexes. There were no significant differences between the groups on other WMS-III indexes. Conclusions: The study provides further support for differences in patients performance on material-specific memory tests. However, the degree of lateralization is less pronounced in patients with epilepsy having left hemisphere epileptic focus. This research provides further evidence of material specific memory deficits on the WMS-III, although not for delayed memory. Patients with right lateralization of seizure activity perform better on tasks of immediate recall of auditory information as well as tasks involving the recognition of verbal information after a delay. 1 S. Kennepohl, 1 V. Sziklas, and 1 M. Jones-Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: We have previously raised a question whether the well-known hemispheric difference in memory function might be process-specific as well as material-specific1,2; i.e., related to both novelty vs. familiarity and verbal vs. nonverbal material. To test this question using neuroimaging, recognition memory must be used; our prior results with patients used recall. We have developed a single recognition memory protocol to be used in both clinical and neuroimaging research. Methods: We use 4 types of stimulus dichotomized along verbal/nonverbal and novel/familiarity dimensions (abstract words, nonsense words, drawings of objects and abstract designs). For each stimulus type, the task consists of two learning/recognition trials and a delayed recognition trial. The fMRI task differs from that used in clinical research primarily in that it uses a block design for item presentation (alternating blocks of stimuli and baseline items), includes a simple perceptual decision task (is item primarily ?straight? or ?curvy?) to ensure fixation during encoding, and does not use an interference task between learning and delayed recognition. Comparability of the two versions was assessed with groups of matched neurologically healthy participants (fMRI vs. clinical version; n = 35 and n = 18, respectively). A small sample of individuals with either primarily left- or right-sided temporal lobe (TL) epilepsy was tested using the clinical version. Results: Our results show that healthy individuals demonstrate significant learning over the two first trials, with little-to-no forgetting following a delay. ANOVAs revealed: 1) no effect of version; 2) main effect of novelty (familiar > novel); 3) main effect of material (?nonverbal? > verbal); 4) main effect of trial. Significant interactions showed poor initial learning of novel material (with bigger improvements on Trial 2), and better overall recognition of drawings of objects. Preliminary results with a small sample of patients suggests that those with a left TL focus improve much more on learning novel than familiar material, whereas those with a right TL focus show little change over trials. Conclusions: We have developed a simple yes-no recognition memory protocol allowing study of material- and process-specific learning/retention using an almost identical paradigm in fMRI or clinical testing. The clinical and fMRI versions of the task appear directly comparable with respect to memory performance. To our knowledge, this represents the first learning/memory protocol using an identical paradigm, potentially yielding complementary information about brain regions active during memory compared with the result of focal lesions. The novelty/familiarity dimension yielded a large effect, confirming the importance of this factor in learning, and may be particularly salient in elucidating laterality effects in temporal-lobe epilepsy. REFERENCES 1.?Majdan et al JCEN (1996); 18: 416?30. 2.?Jones-Gotman et al Neuropsychologia (1997); 35: 963?73 (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Robyn M. Busch, 1 Thomas W. Frazier, 1 Kathryn A. Haggerty, and 1 Cynthia S. Kubu ( 1 Psychiatry  Right = 122) to examine potential factors that may moderate the relationship between BNT performance and seizure lateralization and to determine the incremental validity of this measure in predicting seizure lateralization. Results: The results support the clinical utility of the BNT in determining ultimate side of surgery and indicate that age of seizure onset strongly moderates this relationship. BNT performance was helpful in identifying ultimate side of surgery in patients with later age of seizure onset (i.e., >6 years). This relationship was not apparent in patients with younger age of seizure onset. In addition, site of seizure focus (i.e., temporal vs. nontemporal) approached significance as a moderating variable with more robust relationships apparent in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. FSIQ and duration of epilepsy were not significant moderating variables. Hierarchical logistic regression analyses supported the role of the BNT in predicting ultimate side of surgery and further demonstrated that this instrument has incremental validity over and beyond memory and IQ laterality scores. Conclusions: This study supports the clinical utility of the BNT in the pre-operative evaluation of candidates for epilepsy surgery, particularly for patients with later seizure onset. REFERENCES 1.?Kubu CS, Carswell L, Harnadek M, Galvan N. The diagnostic utility of the Boston and Benton Naming Tests in epilepsy [abstract]. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2001;7(2):210. 2.?Schefft BK, Testa SM, Dulay MF et al Preoperative assessment of confrontation naming ability and interictal paraphasia production in unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy. Epilepsy Behav. 2003;4: 161?168. 1 Jennifer J. Loyden, 1 Bruce K. Schefft, 1 Steven R. Howe, 2 Dean Beebe, and 3 Michael D. Privitera ( 1 Psychology, Unniversity of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; 2 Psychology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ; and 3 Neurology, University Hospital, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Approximately 2% of the population is diagnosed with epilepsy and about one third of those diagnosed will develop intractable epilepsy (Snyder, 1998). Thus, surgical intervention, particularly anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL), has become a widely used form of treatment for those with medically uncontrolled seizures (Engel, 1996) and has a success rate of about 80% (Janszky et al., 2005; Olivier, 1988). Previous studies have found unilateral hippocampal atrophy, side of surgery, and duration of seizures to be significantly predictive of seizure control after ATL (Jeong et al., 1999; Olivier, 1988). Additionally, studies have shown that patients with higher preoperative IQ and language scores and lower preoperative verbal memory scores have good seizure control post ATL (Chelune et al., 1991; Chelune et al., 1998; Hennessey et al., 2001). The primary goal of this study was to determine changes in cognitive functioning after ATL and to identify predictors of favorable seizure and cognitive outcome post-surgically. For seizure outcome, the predictors included hippocampal integrity, seizure laterality and duration, and pre-surgical cognitive functioning. For cognitive outcome, the predictors examined were hippocampal integrity, seizure laterality and duration, and seizure outcome. Methods: Data from a convenience sample of 36 patients who underwent ATL for relief from medically intractable seizures were included in this study. Surgery was performed at University Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio. All participants underwent prolonged video/EEG monitoring and pre- and post-surgical neuropsychological evaluations. Seizure outcome was determined according to Engel's classification system. Results: Approximately 60% of patients' overall IQ and verbal memory scores improved or remained the same following ATL. The majority of these patients were seizure free post surgery, and those who improved on verbal memory tasks had undergone right ATL. Additionally, patients who were seizure free following ATL significantly improved on an executive functioning task. Interestingly, more than half of the patients declined on nonverbal memory and confrontation naming post right ATL. Multiple regression analyses demonstrated that only pre-surgical cognitive scores were significantly predictive of seizure outcome F(8,15) = 2.713, p < .05), accounting for 59% of the variance. Futher, regression analyses yielded statistically significant main effects for nonverbal memory and confrontation naming (t(29) = -2.43, p < .05 and t(29) = 2.27, p < .05, respectively). Conclusions: The results demonstrate that patients improved on most measures of cognitive functioning. Further, cognitive improvement appeared to be greatest in patients who were seizure free following ATL. Higher pre-surgical cognitive scores were predictive of seizure relief post surgery. 1 Carrie R. McDonald, 1 Dean C. Delis, 1 Marc A. Norman, 2 Evelyn S. Tecoma, and 2 Vicente J. Iragui ( 1 Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA ; and 2 Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA ) Rationale: Executive dysfunction is common in patients with frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE) and is thought to be secondary to underlying frontal lobe dysfunction. However, executive dysfunction has also been reported in a subset of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Thus, the specificity of executive dysfunction to FLE versus TLE is unclear. In addition, the degree of executive dysfunction in these populations may be related to disease-specific variables, including the side of the seizure focus, presence of a structural lesion, and/or the age of seizure onset. The goal of this investigation was to determine (1) the nature and extent of executive dysfunction in patients with FLE and TLE and (2) the relationships between disease-specific variables and executive dysfunction. Methods: Participants in this investigation were 23 patients with FLE (10 left, 11 right, one bilateral), 20 patients with TLE (11 left, 8 right, one bilateral), and 23 age- and education-matched controls. Fifteen patients with FLE had MRI-confirmed frontal lobe lesions. All patients with TLE had mesial temporal sclerosis. All participants completed the Delis-Kaplan Executive Functions System. Test performances were adjusted for age, gender, and education and transformed to a common metric (z scores). Composite z-scores were created for each of the following domains: switching, inhibition, fluency, abstraction, and planning. Results: Results revealed that patients with FLE were impaired relative to controls in switching, inhibition, fluency, and abstraction, but not planning. Conversely, patients with TLE were found to be significantly impaired only in fluency relative to controls, although their performances across domains were decreased and did not differ from those with FLE. In the FLE group, correlation analyses did not reveal a relationship between age of seizure onset and any domain of executive functioning. Instead, a left-sided seizure focus and structural lesions were associated with poorer performances. In patients with TLE, an early age of seizure onset was related to greater impairment in one domain (i.e., abstraction) regardless of the side of the seizure focus. Conclusions: Executive dysfunction in patients with FLE is pervasive and appears to depend on the side of the seizure focus and presence of structural pathology. In patients with TLE, executive dysfunction is relatively subtle but may be more pronounced in those with an early seizure onset. These findings are consistent with past research indicating that executive dysfunction is present in patients with FLE and TLE. However, our research extends the literature by demonstrating that the nature, extent, and disease-specific correlates of executive dysfunction differ between the patient groups. (Supported by an Epilepsy Foundation Research Fellowship Award and a NIMH Training Grant T32-MH18399.) 1 Kelly A. McNally, 1 Steven Howe, 1 Bruce K. Schefft, and 2 Michael D. Privitera ( 1 Psychology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Neuropsychological test results are often used in the differential diagnosis of epileptic seizures (ES) and psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES). However, since deficits have been reported in both groups, simply investigating overall performance may not be sufficient. It may be important for neuropsychologists to shift their attention to the qualitative differences in test responses between patients with PNES and ES. Signal Detection Theory (SDT) can be used to investigate differential response patterns on recognition memory tasks. SDT posits that performance is dependent on two independent factors: 1) ability to discriminate between targets and distractors (sensitivity, or actual memory ability) and 2) propensity to respond in a particular manner (response bias). Methods: One hundred patients diagnosed with PNES and 108 patients with temporal lobe ES, 62 left temporal (LTLE) and 46 right temporal (RTLE), were studied. Each participant was administered the Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS-III). Scores on the recognition subtest of the List Learning task were analyzed with the traditional method of scoring and also subjected to SDT analytic decomposition into indices of sensitivity (d') and bias (c). Logistic regression analysis was conducted to investigate the diagnostic utility of raw scores and SDT measures. Results: Raw scores on the recognition memory task were found to significantly discriminate between ES and PNES (?2= 6.01 p = .014, Area under ROC curve, or AUC = .57) however, analysis of SDT measures slightly improved the diagnostic utility (?2= 16.95, p < .001, AUC = .62). Both sensitivity (Wald ?2= 8.43, p = .004) and bias (Wald ?2= 7.92, p = .005) significantly contributed to the discrimination of ES and PNES. Increased sensitivity and a more negative response bias increased the odds of PNES (odds ratio, OR, sensitivity = 1.84, bias = 0.09). Decomposition into SDT measures did not significantly improve the discrimination between LTLE and RTLE (raw scores ?2= 6.63, p = .01., AUC = .66; SDT measures ?2= 14.42, p < .001, AUC = .68). Sensitivity (Wald ?2= 8.17, p = .004) but not response bias (Wald ?2= 2.9, p = .09) was found to be a significant predictor of left versus right TLE, with decreased sensitivity increasing the odds of LTLE (OR = 0.45). Conclusions: This study provides evidence that SDT measures of sensitivity and response bias may be useful tools to aid in the differential diagnosis of ES and PNES. Patients with PNES were found to have a negative response bias as compared to patients with ES. The negative response bias in the PNES group may be related to depression, inadequate effort or low motivation on the diagnostic testing. These results suggest that, not only is overall performance on neuropsychological testing important, but differences in response patterns should also be considered. 1 Cristiane S. Messas, 2 Luiz Henrique M. Castro, 2 Carmen L. Jorge, and 1 Leticia L. Mansur ( 1 Physical, Speech and Occupational Therapy, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy show cognitive imparment in episodic memory. Semantic memory aspects have received less attention in temporal lobe epielpsy. We evaluated aspects of semantic memory in epileptic patients with temporal lobe epilepsy secondary a mesial temporal sclerosis. Methods: We studied patients with medically refractory mesial TLE undergoing presurgical evaluation for epilepsy surgery with MRI documented unilateral mesial temporal sclerosis. Patients were classified as right or left mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS), according to MRI findings. Inclusion criteria included right handed patients with ages between 18?55, education above 8 yrs and absence of other MRI lesions or other significant neurological or psychiatric disease. Patients underwent a detailed battery evaluating episodic memory (word list learning, with spontaneous, cued and recognition recall and imediate and late history recall) and semantic memory tests: picture-word matching, definition of objects, common nouns, verbs and adjectives, word list generation [FAS, and category: animals and means of transportation), auditory responsive and visual confrontation naming (common and proper nouns, verbs and adjectives). Performance of left and right MTS patients was compared with a control group of normal individuals, matched by age, gender and education. Results: We evaluated 18 MTS patients (10 left, 8 right) and 22 controls. Groups did not differ in age, gender and education. All patients were high dose mono or polytherapy of antiepileptic drugs. Left MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in immediate and late history recall (p < 0.05). Left MTS patients also performed worse than right MTS and controls in word list learning, but the difference did not reach statistical significance(p < 0.05). In semantic memory testing, both left and right MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in confrontation naming for common and proper nouns, as well as in word list generation (FAS, animals and means of transportation). In word-picture matching, right MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls (p < 0.05). Left MTS patients performed worse than controls, but this difference did not reach statistical significance (due to sample size). Left and right MTS patients performed worse than controls in responsive naming and in visual confrontation for verbs and adjectives, but this difference did not reach statistical significance. Groups did not differ in the definition task for objects, nouns, adjectives and verbs. Conclusions: In this group of patients, while episodic verbal memory impairment was noted in left MTS patients, imparment in some aspects of semantic memory was seen in both left and right MTS patients. 1 Yafa Minazad, and 1 Laura Kalayjian ( 1 Neurology, University of Southern California, Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Epilepsy is a chronic illness that negatively impacts quality of life. Cultural factors may have an influence. At Los Angeles County Medical Center, the majority of patients are Spanish-speaking, uninsured, and with low income and level of education. It is important to identify the factors associated with quality of life in this population to provide better care. Methods: Two hundred adult Hispanic patients, seen at our epilepsy clinic underwent a structured interview followed by a self-administered questionnaire (English or Spanish). Demographic and other information regarding their epilepsy was collected. The questionnaire consisted of the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-10 (QOLIE- 10) plus 11 additional questions designed to identify more cultural/social concerns. A statistical regression model was used to correlate these factors with mean QOLIE 10 scores. Results: Of the 200 patients interviewed, 61% were female. Mean age was 36 and mean duration of epilepsy was 20 years. 82% spoke Spanish as their primary language. 51% arrived by public transportation. Average number of antiepileptic medication prescribed was 2, and 74% of patients reported compliance. Mean seizure frequency was 1 per month. Mean percent optimal life scores (QOL) derived from the QOLIE 10 was 69.4%. Seizure frequency was significantly related with QOL, (p < 0.001). QOL decreased by 10% with every increase in category of seizure frequency; one every other month or less, more than every other month up to 2 per month, and 2 or more per month. Epilepsy duration was significantly and inversely associated with QOL (p < 0.04). Patients' gender, age of onset, seizure type, and etiology, did not correlate with QOL. Language was significantly associated with QOL (p < 0.01). English speaking Hispanics had lower QOL scores compared to Spanish speaking ones. Average length of education was 8 years. Of the 34% of patients who had stopped education due to epilepsy, 46% were below age 30. Patients with higher level of education (high school and above) had significantly lower QOL (p < 0.03). There was a significant association between sense of embarrassment (stigma) and QOL (p < 0.001). Twenty six percent reported being diagnosed with depression or anxiety. Of those diagnosed, 56% were receiving treatment. The question left unanswered the most by patients was regarding driving. Of the 14% of our patients who drove, only 51% owned a driver's license. Conclusions: Cultural factors and epilepsy burden play a role in quality of life in Hispanic epilepsy patients at a major US urban medical center. Stigma, language, and education had significant relationships with QOL. QOL was also significantly associated with increased seizure frequency and duration of disease. These results are similar to other studies showing refractory epilepsy patients have poor QOL. This information will enlighten health care providers to the needs of this cultural group. 1 Hilary Mounfield, 2 Gus Baker, 3 Michael Feichtinger, and 4 Philippe Ryvlin ( 1 Chief Executive, Epilepsy Scotland, Glasgow, United Kingdom ; 2 Clinical Neuropsychology, Walton Center for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Liverpool, United Kingdom ; 3 Department of Neurology, Karl-Franzens University, Graz, Austria ; and 4 Department of Functional Neurology and Epileptology, Neurology Hospital, Lyon, France ) Rationale: To provide a patients' perspective on the cognitive side effects of anti-epileptic drug (AED) treatment and the consequences for quality of life. Methods: A nine-item questionnaire comprising a combination of forced-choice and open-ended questions was distributed to 4,500 members of nine chapters of the International Bureau for Epilepsy (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Israel, Norway and Scotland). Results: Data analysis was performed on 837 completed questionnaires. The average age of respondents was 40 years, 54% were female and 95% were taking medication for their seizures (60% polytherapy vs 39% monotherapy). Average length of time on treatment was 18.07 years (± 18.07). Indicators of cognitive impairment considered to be affected ?very much? or ?moderately? included sleepiness/tiredness (57%), slowness of thought (42%) and difficulties learning something new (41%). Two thirds stated that cognitive impairment was related to their condition or AED therapy, with 41% attributing impairment to their AED therapy alone. More than half (59%) stated that cognitive impairment had prevented them from achieving a goal and approximately 50% reported that their quality of life had been affected including: work (48%), education (46%), relationships (48%) and leisure pursuits (44%). When asked what side effects they would most like to avoid, respondents reported indicators of cognitive impairment most frequently, including sleepiness/tiredness (35%), memory problems (19%), lethargy/sluggishness (9%) and difficulty paying attention (8%). Conclusions: Insights gained from this survey highlight the debilitating effect of cognitive impairment on individuals with epilepsy and the importance ascribed to minimising cognitive side effects of AEDs. (Supported by an unrestricted educational grant from UCB.) 1 Ada Piazzini, 1 Rosanna Chifari, 1 Katherine Turner, 1 Alberto Morabito, 1 Raffaele Canger, and 1 Maria Paola Canevini ( 1 Epilepsy Center, S. Paolo Hospital, University of Milan, Italy ) Rationale: The main aim of this investigation is to assess the possible cognitive changes in patients with epilepsy compared to controls over 5 years, and to investigate the clinical variables mainly implied in the mental alteration. Methods: 50 patients with focal epilepsy and 50 healthy controls were administered the same battery of comprehensive neuropsychological tests at baseline and 5 years later. Raw scores of all psychometric measures were converted to adjusted (age, gender, years of education) z scores. Results: Patients with focal epilepsy exhibited a significant impairment in substained attention compared to controls within 5 years, while the other cognitive domains did not show any important change. The worsening of attention was mainly related to the duration of epilepsy, the age of onset, a history of tonic-clonic seizures, and the level of education. There was no relation to the AEDs regimen. Conclusions: Our results could have important implications considering the influence attention can have on other cognitive functioning, on the quality of life and on the work status, in order to prevent further cognitive deterioration, especially in those patients more at risk to develop that decline. 1 Sandra Pouliot, and 1 Marilyn Jones-Gotman ( 1 Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: We have found that healthy young adults remember odors leading to large emotional reactions (measured with self ratings and galvanic skin response (GSR)) better than odors provoking smaller emotional reactions. Because the amygdala seems to be critically implicated in memory for emotional information and because it is part of the primary olfactory area, we hypothesized that patients with a unilateral amygdala resection (included in a selective amygdalohippocampectomy (SAH) or a corticoamygdalohippocampectomy (CAH)) would not show the normal better memory for emotional than for nonemotional odors, but that instead their memory would be the same without respect to the emotion-arousing properties of the odors to be remembered. Methods: We tested 20 patients who had undergone a SAH or CAH (10 left (6 men), 10 right (3 men)) for treatment of intractable epilepsy, and 32 healthy control subjects matched to the patients for age, education and gender. First, participants smelled passively 21 odors (time interval between odors: 45 seconds) while their breathing, heart rate and GSR were measured. Second, they smelled the same 21 odors again and rated each odor's intensity, pleasantness, familiarity and emotion-arousing properties. Third, a few days later (mean = 5.3, standard deviation = 3.4), we gave participants an unexpected recognition odor memory test. Results: Patients did not show better memory for emotional odors than for nonemotional ones, whereas the healthy control subjects did. There was no difference between patients with a left or right resection in odor memory accuracy or response bias. However, patients with a right resection tended to rate all odors as less emotionally arousing than did patients with a left resection and healthy control subjects. Control subjects showed greater GSR changes to arousing than to nonarousing odors, but the breathing and heart rate measures did not differ as a function of these properties of the odors. Conclusions: Patients who undergo a SAH or CAH, whether in the left or right hemisphere, lose the memory advantage that odors causing strong emotional reactions normally have. This absence of an effect of arousal is not related to differences in perceiving the odors, because only individuals with right resections rated odors differently whereas both left- and right-resection groups failed to remember the emotional odors better than nonemotional ones. This finding is likely owing to resection of the amygdala, which was included in both types of surgery. (Supported by Savoy Foundation and Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Gail L. Risse, 1 Robert Doss, 1 Wenbo Zhang, and 1,2 John R. Gates ( 1 Epilepsy, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, P.A. of United and Children's Hospitals and Clinics - St. Paul, St. Paul, MN ; and 2 Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Recent studies have reported a high rate of concordance between magnetoencephalography/magnetic source imaging (MSI) and the Intracarotid Amobarbital Procedure (IAP) in identifying patients with left hemisphere language dominance, despite the frequent co-occurrence of some right hemisphere activation on MSI. This study examines the anatomical activation patterns in the right hemisphere in response to an auditory word recognition task in patients who were classified with bilateral language based on the IAP. Methods: Data from four patients diagnosed with chronic epilepsy and/or brain tumor who had been classified with bilateral language representation on IAP and who also underwent language mapping with MSI were retrospectively reviewed. MSI data were obtained with a 148-channel Magnes 2500 WH system (4-D Neuroimaging, SanDiego, CA) and analyzed using the single equivalent dipole model. For each patient, the number and anatomic location of right hemisphere dipoles were examined in relation to modality-specific IAP language responses scored for the right hemisphere. Results: Evidence of correct responses on automatic speech tasks and/or at least one correct naming response was present in all four patients during maximum drug effect following the left injection on IAP. Two of 4 patients demonstrated some auditory comprehension in the right hemisphere as well. Right hemisphere MSI language activation sites included the superior temporal gyrus and/or angular gyrus in 3 of 4 patients. The fourth patient showed activation in the right inferior frontal region and a portion of the insula. This patient had the highest right hemisphere language score on IAP of the 4 cases reviewed. For all patients, activation of classical temporal lobe language areas in the left hemisphere significantly exceeded that seen on the right. Conclusions: These data appear to confirm independent activation of specific right hemisphere language areas in patients with unambiguous language function in both hemispheres. Results will be considered in relation to MSI activation in exclusively left language dominant cases and other neuropsychological variables. 1,5 Heike Schmolck, 1,2,3 Amit Verma, 1,2,3 Ian Goldsmith, 4 Daniel Yoshor, 4 Harvey Levin, 4 Michele K. York, 1,2,5 Perry J. Foreman, 1,2,3,6 Eli M. Mizrahi, and 1,5 Paul E. Schulz ( 1 Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, BCM, Houston, TX ; 3 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, BCM, Houston, TX ; 4 Neurosurgery, BCM, Houston, TX ; 5 Neurology, Michael DeBakey VAMC, Houston, TX ; and 6 Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, BCM, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Semantic Memory (SM) is impaired in neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., AD, FTD) or structural lesions affecting the lateral temporal cortex bilaterally (e.g., Herpes Encephalitis). The effect of unilateral lesions is less understood. Prior studies reported deficits in pre- as well as postsurgical temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients. These deficits have been suggested to be highly specific to the clinical difficulties experienced by TLE patients. Our goal is to study SM in patients before and after anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) to determine the effect of seizure laterality and the impact of surgery. Our specific aims are to investigate whether deficits in SM after ATL are related to the surgery or the TLE, to assess the magnitude of possible effects, and to determine whether dominant ATL represents a higher risk. Methods: We use 4 tests of semantic knowledge for 48 items. They test the ability to name an item when provided with either a picture or a description (confrontation naming, auditory naming), to provide a definition of the item, and to generate exemplars from a category (category fluency). We have cross-sectionally examined 14 pre-ATL and 18 post-ATL patients, and 8 controls. A prospective study arm is comparing performance before and after ATL in individual patients. Results: Both dominant and non-dominant TLE patients were impaired compared to controls, but the deficit in dominant TLE patients was more severe (ANCOVA IQ covariate, p < 0.05). Interestingly, surgical patients did significantly or marginally worse than presurgical patients on both naming tasks, but they performed better on the definitions task (p < 0.05). Surgical patients supplied more information about the items defined, whereas error rates were similar. Category fluency was also better in the ATL group. Overall performance remains impaired for TLE patients regardless of surgical status in reference to controls. Conclusions: This cross-sectional study found that SM was impaired before and after ATL, suggesting that ATL does not substantially alter SM. However, our prospective study will provide firmer conclusions regarding the impact of ATL on SM. SM was more impaired in dominant TLE. Postsurgical patients performed worse on confrontation naming but better on the definitions task; the latter is likely to be due to a nonspecific effect of improved fluency (less AEDs and less seizures) since error rates did not differ. (Supported by the Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of the Roger F. and Edna F. Evans Fund.) 1,2 Carol J. Schramke, 1 April A. Valeri, 1,2 James P. Valeriano, and 1,2 Kevin M. Kelly ( 1 Neurology, Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: This study compares patients with verified epileptic seizures (ES) and non epileptic seizure like events (NESLE), based on information obtained in clinical interviews, to determine which historical variables most reliably distinguish between these groups. Methods: All patients who were admitted for video EEG monitoring at Allegheny General Hospital between December 1998 and December 2004 and had a report, from at least 24 hours of video EEG monitoring, that suggested either an epileptic seizure or a non epileptic event were included. All patients admitted for monitoring were seen for a clinical interview by the first author. Data were coded based on that clinical interview including whether or not patients reported (1) pending litigation, (2) pending application for disability, (3) marital discord, (4) an unstable work history, (5) history of working in healthcare, (6) significant abuse or psychosocial stress during childhood, (7) history of sexual abuse, (8) current family conflict, (9) history of antisocial behavior, (10) history of delinquincy in childhood, (11) family history of seizures, (12) family history of mental health problems, CFS, or fibromyalgia, (13) family history of alcohol abuse, (14) incontinence during events, (15) history of self injury during an event, (16) events during sleep, (17) psychotropic medication at time of evaluation, (18) that events are related to stress, (19) history of psychiatric hospitalization, (20) history of panic disorder, (21) history of other anxiety disorder, (22) history of depression, and (23) history of other psychiatric diagnosis. Data were subjected to chi square analysis to determine whether there were significant between group differences. Results: Of the 153 reports of monitoring available for review, 65 recorded seizures and 56 recorded NESLE. In the other cases patients did not have events or events were not clearly classified. There were significant between group differences in patient report of (1) marital discord, (2) significant abuse or psychosocial stress during childhood, (3) history of sexual abuse, (4) family history of mental health problems, CFS, or fibromyalgia, (5) family history of alcohol abuse, (6) psychotropic medication at time of evaluation, (7) history of psychiatric hospitalization, (8) history of panic disorder, (9) history of other anxiety disorder, (10) history of depression, and (11) history of other psychiatric diagnosis. Conclusions: Many variables previously suggested to distinguish between patients with ES and NEE were not found to be significantly different in our two patient groups. The variables that did differ in the two groups suggest patients with NESLE are more likely to report histories of significant stress and abuse during childhood, current isues with relationships, and psychiatric diagnoses and treatment. 1 Alon Sinai, 1 Piotr J. Franaszczuk, and 1 Nathan E. Crone ( 1 Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Lexical semantic judgments are expected to depend on modality-specific, as well as amodal, lexical semantic processing. To verify the existence of these different components of lexical semantic processing, we used electrocorticographic (ECoG) recordings during a semantic relatedness task to measure event-related cortical activation with high spatial and temporal resolution. Methods: Having undergone surgical implantation of subdural electrode grids for the treatment of intractable epilepsy, six native English speakers (15?43 years old, mean 30 y.o.; 3 female, all left hemisphere dominant for language) judged whether sequentially presented pairs of words were semantically related or not, responding with a forced choice button press. Time-frequency analyses utilized matching pursuits to measure event-related ECoG spectral responses with respect to a 1-sec baseline preceding stimulus presentation. Word pairs were presented in either visual or auditory modalities during separate blocks. Event-related changes in frequency-specific signal energy were compared within subjects between conditions (visual/auditory; semantically related/non-related). Results: Event-related increases and decreases in ECoG signal energy were observed in a variety of frequency ranges, including increases in high gamma (>70 Hz) activity. Modality-specific event-related energy changes were observed in at least one recording site in all subjects. Modality-independent energy changes were observed in 5 of the 6 subjects. In 4 subjects event-related energy changes at some sites were significantly different for semantically related vs. unrelated word pairs. These findings were most prominent in left superior temporal gyrus, supramarginal gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus, and basal temporal cortex, as well as some of their right hemisphere counterparts. Conclusions: Lexical semantic processing occurs in both modality-specific, as well as amodal, cortical networks, distributed across cortical language regions in the dominant hemisphere, as well as in homologous regions of the nondominant hemisphere. (Supported by NINDS RO1-NS41598.) 1 Erik K. St. Louis, 1 Sean Mc Evoy, 1 Qian Chi Shi, and 1 Matthew Rizzo ( 1 Iowa Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine and University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; and Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA ) Rationale: Patients with epilepsy are at risk for automobile crashes. Cognitive effects of epilepsy and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may impair driving performance. Useful Field of View (UFOV) is a sensitive and specific predictor of automobile collisions. We analyzed UFOV in subjects with partial epilepsy. Methods: 20 partial epilepsy subjects (aged 21?61 years, mean = 41.5) and 50 neurologically normal controls (aged 24?56 years, mean = 39.3) participated. Epilepsy syndromes were temporal (n = 18; 12 had prior anterior temporal lobectomy) and extratemporal (n = 2). UFOV was assessed using the Visual Attention Analyzer, Model 3000 (Visual Resources, Inc.). UFOV Task 1 measures processing speed at central fixation. Task 2 analyzes divided attention between central and peripheral targets. Task 3 involves selective attention between a peripheral target and distracters. Task 4 is a more difficult discrimination task. The dependent measure is a threshold score (ms) for 75% correct target identification. Higher scores indicate poorer performance. UFOV Task scores were added to calculate a UFOV Total score for each subject. Results: UFOV scores were significantly higher on all UFOV tasks in subjects with partial epilepsy (Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test; see Table), indicative of impairments of processing speed, divided attention, and selective attention. Conclusions: UFOV scores are increased in subjects with partial epilepsy compared to neurologically normal individuals, suggesting a greater crash risk in individuals with partial epilepsy. Causes of impaired UFOV scores include reduced processing speed, divided and selective attention impairments, and mild superior quadrantic visual field deficits due to surgical lesions. Our future studies in drivers with epilepsy aim to further differentiate effects of seizures, AEDs, and lesions upon cognitive abilities critical to safe automobile driving. Useful field of view scores in partial epilepsy and neurologically normal subjects Epilepsy Subjects Control Subjects Sample Size 20 (11F, 9M) 50 (25F, 25M) Useful Field of View (msec) Mean (SD) Mean (SD) p-value UFOV Task 1 24.8 (36.6) 16.0 (0.00) ?0.0214 UFOV Task 2 55.1 (75.4) 24.9 (31.7) ?0.0008 UFOV Task 3 147.1 (101.5) 81.3 (48.5) ?0.0001 UFOV Task 4 269.9 (96.2)? 206.9 (76.8)? ?0.0075 UFOV Total Tasks 1?3 226.9 (193.8) 122.2 (76.5)? <0.0001 UFOV Total Tasks 1?4 496.8 (273.6) 329.1 (141.3) ?0.0019 SD: Standard Deviation. 1 Maria B. Viaggio, 1 Maria E. Fontela, 1 Veronica De Simone, and 1 Alfredo E. Thomson ( 1 Neurology Department, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: Epileptic patients have an increased risk of psychiatric comorbidity causing considerable burden and impact on quality of life. Prevalence of psychotic disorders in epilepsy is between 2?9%. Psychosis is more often classified according to the chronologic relation between the psychotic episode and the preceding seizure, i.e., ictal, postictal or interictal psychosis. The aim of this study is to characterize the clinical features and to evaluate the prevalence of psychotic disorders in our epileptic population. Methods: Clinical records of 370 epileptic patients evaluated in our section between 2002 and 2004 were review. Patients who presented psychotic disorders were included for analysis. Patients MRI, EEG recordings, demographic and clinical data were analyzed. Patients with: psychosis antedating epilepsy, history of substance abuse, other neurological disorder or symptoms related to AEDs, were excluded. Results: Twenty-six patients (7%) experienced psychosis. The mean age was 36 years old (SD:11.02) - Ictal Psychosis: Three patients (11.53%). All had localization related epilepsy with complex partial seizures (CPS). Psychosis and EEG discharges stopped with AEDs.The mean time of epilepsy diagnosis was 2.3 years (SD: 00.57) - Postictal psychosis: Seven patients (26.92%), 6 patients post status epilepticus and one post cluster of seizures. The mean interval between epilepsy and psychosis onset was 22.28 years (SD: 11.98). Five patients suffered CPS secondary to remote symptomatic epilepsy. Two patients had generalized seizures and idiophatic epilepsy. In all cases symptoms ceased within 7 days. - Interictal psychosis: Twenty patients (76.92%). The mean interval between onset of epilepsy and psychosis was 21 years (SD: 11.02). Most patients had remote symptomatic CPS. Seventeen patients showed focal interictally epileptiform discharges on EEG. Conclusions: Prevalence of psychotic disorders in our study are in accordance with previous studies. Our data also support that psychosis might be associated with CPS and remote symptomatic epilepsy. Interictal and postictal psychosis appears to be related to longstanding epilepsy. Adequate treatment of psychotic disorders is as important as seizure control for epilepsy management. Detecting and treating psychiatric comorbidities is required to help patients to achieve their maximal functional state and improve their quality of life. REFERENCES Kanner AM. Stagno S. Kotagel P. Postictal psychiatric events during prolonged video-electroencephalographic monitoring studies. Arch Neurol 1996;53: 258?263. Kanemoto K. Kawasaki J. Kawai I. Postictal psychosis: a comparison with acute interictal and chronic psychosis. Epilepsia 1996;37: 551?556. Onuma T. Adachi N. Ishida S., et al Prevalence and annual incidence of psychosis in patients with epilepsy. Epilepsia 1995;36 (suppl 3): S 218. Kanner AM. Barry J. Depression and psychotic disorders associated with epilepsy. Are they unique Epilepsy Behav 2001;2: 170?186. 1 Laura K. Vogtle, 1 Roy Martin, and 1 R. E. Faught ( 1 Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL; Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL; and Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: A significant proportion of adults with epilepsy are over the age of 60 (Hauser, 1992). Due to health issues related to advancing age, epilepsy and side effects of AEDs, aspects of quality of life are a concern for this population. A comparison of quality of life issues between a sample of elderly with and without epilepsy is described. Methods: Thirty elderly adults 60 years of age and older without epilepsy (EA) (12 males, 17 females) were compared to a sample of 27 elderly adults with epilepsy (EAE) (14 males, 11 females). All subjects were living independently in the community. EA were older (M = 71.97 SD = 5.48) than EAE (M = 64.41 SD = 3.81). Inclusion criteria for EAE were a seizure occurrence within the last 12 months and seizure disorder not resulting from stroke or TBI. Quality of life was assessed using the Older Americans Resource Survey (Fillenbaum, 1988), a self-report instrument containing 5 subscales (social resources, economic resources, mental health, physical health, ADL) and a cumulative score. Results: Three subscales of the OARS showed significantly lower scores for EAE; mental health, physical health, and ADL scores (see Table 1). Additionally, EAE were significantly more likely to be dependent on others for transportation (U = .001) and EA were more likely to have hearing impairments (U = .02). Conclusions: Assessment outcomes reveal poorer quality of life in EAE in the areas of mental and physical health and activities of daily living, in spite of the fact that the EAE sample was considerably younger than the EA comparison group. These findings underscore the need for further study regarding quality of life issues in EAE, particularly aspects of physical and mental health and their impact on a person's ability to manage personal care (ADL). Such findings may also reflect a need to provide careful follow-up and education in aspects of care such as medication compliance with EAE. (Supported by Center for Disease Control and Prevention.) Older Americans Resources Survey Comparison Subscale Mean Score Significance Social Resources ?EA ?1.55 .097 ?EAE ?1.93 Economic Resources ?EA ?2.34 .39? ?EAE ?2.11 Mental Health ?EA ?1.90 ?.03*? ?EAE ?2.37 Physical Health ?EA ?2.72 ?.05*? ?EAE ?3.19 ADL ?EA ?1.55 ?.02*? ?EAE ?2.07 Cumulative rating scale ?EA 10.14 ?.08? ?EAE 11.67 *p < .05. 1 Robert T. Wechsler, 2 John J. Barry, 2 Kim D. Bullock, 3 Patrick D. MacLeamy, and 1 Robert S. Fisher ( 1 Neurology, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ; 2 Psychiatry, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ; and 3 PGSP-Stanford Psy.D Consortium, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ) Rationale: Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) are commonly encountered during evaluations for refractory epilepsy. Treatment for this debilitating condition centers on various forms of psychotherapy. Group therapy may be an effective therapeutic strategy, particularly in combination with individual therapy. Outcome in therapeutic trials have focused mainly on measures of event frequency or quality of life, which can be influenced by comorbid physical, psychological, and social factors. Changes in the subjective quality of PNES in response to therapy have received relatively little attention. Methods: The authors devised a preliminary, retrospective study to assess the impact of group therapy in combination with individual therapy on subjective measures of PNES including frequency, intensity, duration, and semiology. Questionnaires focusing on subjective measures were completed by 7 of 10 participants in Psychodynamic Group Therapy (PDT) and 4 of 6 in Cognitive Behavioral Group Therapy (CBT). Participants had long-standing history of refractory PNES. Results: Mean duration of participation was 16.7 months in PDT group and 6.4 months in CBT group. Two of 7 PGT respondents stopped having PNES. Of the 9 respondents who continued having PNES, 7 felt their events were less disabling, 6 reported improvement in frequency, 6 reported less intense events, 5 reported shorter events, 5 characterized events as less severe, 2 reported change in semiology, and 2 noted less cognitive impairment during events. Eight of 9 with persistent PNES had multiple event types. Five of these 8 reported a change in relative proportion of event types with decrease of more disabling events. Conclusions: This preliminary study reveals improvement in the subjective experience of PNES within the context of group therapy. Participants who continued to have PNES experienced fewer, less intense, and subjectively less disabling events. This preliminary retrospective study raises the possibility that measures of the subjective experience of PNES may be useful for assessing progress in psychotherapeutic interventions. Further similar analyses using validated tools and prospective designs may be of value. 1 Michael Westerveld, 1 Kimberly R. Stoddard, 2 John T. Langfitt, 3 William Barr, 1 Dennis D. Spencer, and 4 Susan S. Spencer ( 1 Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 2 Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY ; 3 Neurology, New York University (NYU), New York, NY ; and 4 Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Although there have been numerous previous studies reporting memory outcome following temporal lobectomy, these studies typically do not follow patients for periods greater than one-two years after surgery. Consequently, little is known about long-term (i.e., more than 2 years post-surgery) cognitive outcome following temporal lobectomy. Variables that relate to outcome, particularly long-term seizure control, have also not been studied. The current study reports on the verbal memory outcome for patients enrolled in a multi-center, prospective epilepsy surgery outcome study. Methods: A total of 80 patients who had reached the 5 year post-surgical date and for whom follow-up memory data were available are included in this report. Patients were enrolled in the multicenter study of epilepsy surgery (MSES), and underwent neuropsychological testing as part of their pre-surgical evaluation, follow-up testing at two years post-surgery, and again at 5 years following surgery. Neuropsychological evaluation included general cognitive ability (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale), and verbal memory testing (California Verbal Learning Test). Results: Neuropsychological testing at baseline revealed no significant pre-operative differences in Verbal, Performance or Full Scale IQ scores between the right and left TL surgery groups. Interestingly, there was no significant difference in the baseline verbal memory testing between the right and left TL groups. Repeated measures ANOVA reveals a trend toward better verbal memory outcome among patients with at least one 3 year remission period (p = .07), regardless of side of surgery. There is no significant main effect for side of surgery, but there was a significant interaction between time, side of surgery, and seizure outcome. While patients who underwent successful right temporal lobectomy (defined as at least 3 year seizure free period during follow-up) had the best verbal memory outcome, patients undergoing right temporal lobectomy that did not have a 3 year remission had the worst memory outcome, and were comparable to the left TL group without a 3 year remission. Post-hoc analysis also revealed that 3 of the 4 groups declined between the 2 year and 5 year outcome points. Conclusions: These results reveal that patients undergoing temporal lobectomy continue to evidence evolving changes in cognitive function 5 years after surgery. Although seizure outcome is a key factor, other variables also play a role, including side of surgery and baseline level of function. These findings indicate that patients may remain vulnerable to verbal memory declines as long as 5 years following temporal lobectomy. (Supported by NIH Grant Number 2 R01 NS32375-06.) 1,3 David J. Williamson, 2 Daniel L. Drane, 2 Elizabeth S. Stroup, 1,2 Alan Wilensky, 2 Mark D. Holmes, and 2 John W. Miller ( 1 Scientific Affairs, Janssen Medical Affairs, LLC, Titusville, NJ ; 2 School of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 3 Neurology, University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL ) Rationale: Recent investigations have demonstrated that the majority of patients with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) perform in the invalid range on tests designed to detect valid effort on neurocognitive testing (Williamson et al., 2003, 2004). However, a small percentage of patients with video-telemetry confirmed epilepsy also fail symptom validity testing (SVT), including some without evidence of somatoform disorder or apparent motivation to perform in a suboptimal manner. There are inconsistent findings about the extent to which recent epileptiform activity influences neurocognitive performance (Aldenkamp & Arends, 2004). Clinically, we noted that patients with epilepsy who experienced seizures within the past 24 hours seemed more likely to fail symptom validity testing. We investigated this matter in a more systematic fashion to determine the extent to which recent seizure activity may compromise the validity of neurocognitive findings. Methods: Sixty-three patients referred for continuous video-EEG monitoring for evaluation of uncontrolled seizures at the University of Washington were administered the Word Memory Test as part of a comprehensive epilepsy neuropsychological evaluation. Only patients classified on the basis of their ictal EEG recordings and behavioral presentation as experiencing epileptic seizures were included in the study. In order to screen out patients with known cognitive deficits severe enough to decrease the likelihood of normal performance on SVT, patients unable to live independently were excluded. Results: Of the patients who failed SVT, 75% had suffered a seizure within the preceding 24-hour period. ROC analysis suggests that simply knowing that a patient had suffered a seizure within the preceding 24 hours significantly improves one's ability to predict whether they will fail SVT (p = .03). These findings appear to be particularly true for patients diagnosed with complex partial seizures: 3/8 patients with complex-partial seizures with a right-sided focus who had suffered a recent seizure failed (vs. 0/8 who had not seized), whereas 5/8 patients with a recent left-sided focal seizure failed (vs. 0/8 who had not seized). Conclusions: Based upon these preliminary data, it appears that suffering a seizure within 24 hours of neurocognitive testing may place a sizeable proportion of patients with epilepsy at risk for failing SVT, particularly if a patient suffers from complex partial seizures. Given the demonstrated relationship between failed SVT and improbably poor scores on neurocognitive testing in epilepsy and other populations, this may have important implications for clinical decision-making based upon such test results. 1 Pezhman M. Zadeh, 1 Adriana E. Palade, and 1 John F. Brick ( 1 Neurology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV ) Rationale: Posterior Communicating Artery Wada for memory evaluation is rarely done. The presurgical internal carotid artery Wada for memory evaluation provides sufficient information in many patients with medically intractable epilepsy. We report five cases in which performance of posterior communicating artery Wada helped us evaluate the hippocampus involvement in memory function, after the Internal Carotid Artery WADA injection demonstrated that patients may be at risk for memory loss if mesiotemporal structures would be removed. Methods: In the five patients bilateral internal carotid artery injection of amobarbital was performed with concurrent EEG recording. Subsequently patients had language and memory evaluation done by Neuropsycology team. The evaluation of memory function suggested bihemispheric memory representation, with the concern that the patients may experience memory decline after ipsilateral resection of mesiotemporal structures.Additional testing with amobarbital injected in the ipsilateral posterior communicating artery supplying the hippocampus was done, with additional small amounts of amobarbital being needed until patient developed a visual field cut. Results: Clinically, patients were evaluated for development of homonymous hemianopsia which suggests adequate posterior communicating artery injection. In all of the cases the concurrent EEG recording showed minimal background slowing of the hemisphere being injected. Additional memory testing was performed and demonstrated good memory support in the remaining hemisphere not supplied by PCA and in the contralateral hemisphere therefore allowing safe resection of the tested hippocampus. Post-surgical follow up with Neuropsychological testing did not demonstrate any memory impairment. Conclusions: Inconclusive bilateral carotid Wada testing does not disqualify the patients with intractable epilepsy from being a good candidate for surgical resection of mesiotemporal structures. Posterior communicating artery Wada is very useful in assessing involvement of hippocampus in memory function.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gaubitz, M.
AU  - Schiffer, T.
AU  - Holm, C.
AU  - Richter, E.
AU  - Pisternick-Ruf, W.
AU  - Weiser, T.
TI  - Efficacy and safety of nicoboxil/nonivamide ointment for the treatment of acute pain in the low back – A randomized, controlled trial
JO  - European Journal of Pain
JA  - Eur J Pain
VL  - 20
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ejp.719
DO  - doi:10.1002/ejp.719
SP  - 263
EP  - 273
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Background Until now, nonivamide/nicoboxil ointment has not been tested in a randomized trial for the treatment of acute non-specific low back pain. Methods This phase III randomized, double-blind, active- and placebo-controlled, multi-centre trial investigated efficacy, safety and tolerability of topical nicoboxil 2.5%/nonivamide 0.4% for treatment of acute non-specific low back pain [primary endpoint: pain intensity (PI) difference between pre-dose baseline and 8 h after the first application]. Results Patients (n = 805), 18?74 years of age were treated for up to 4 days with nicoboxil 2.5%/nonivamide 0.4%, nicoboxil 2.5%, nonivamide 0.4% or placebo ointment. Pre-dose baseline pain intensity (6.6 on a 0- to 10-point numerical rating scale) was reduced by 1.049 points with placebo, by 1.428 points with nicoboxil, by 2.252 points with nonivamide and by 2.410 points with nicoboxil/nonivamide after 8 h (p < 0.0001 for nicoboxil/nonivamide vs. placebo, nicoboxil; p = 0.4171 for nicoboxil/nonivamide vs. nonivamide). At the end of treatment, the combination provided more pronounced PI reduction (3.540 points) compared with nicoboxil (2.371, p < 0.0001), nonivamide (3.074, p = 0.0259) and placebo (1.884, p < 0.0001). Low back mobility scores on Day 1 were better for the combination compared with all other treatments (p < 0.044); on Day 2?4, scores were better than for placebo and nicoboxil (p < 0.003). Patients assessed efficacy of the combination as greater than of the comparators (p ≤ 0.0129). All treatments were tolerated well. No treatment-related serious adverse events were reported. Conclusion Nicoboxil/nonivamide ointment is an effective, well-tolerated medication for the treatment of acute non-specific low back pain.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - BSAVA Companion
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 50
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00782.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00782.x
SP  - i
EP  - xxviii
PY  - 2009
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hawiger, J.
AU  - Veach, R. A.
AU  - Zienkiewicz, J.
TI  - New paradigms in sepsis: from prevention to protection of failing microcirculation
JO  - Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - J Thromb Haemost
VL  - 13
IS  - 10
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jth.13061
DO  - doi:10.1111/jth.13061
SP  - 1743
EP  - 1756
KW  - genome
KW  - infection
KW  - inflammation
KW  - microcirculation
KW  - septic shock
PY  - 2015
AB  - Summary Sepsis, also known as septicemia, is one of the 10 leading causes of death worldwide. The rising tide of sepsis due to bacterial, fungal and viral infections cannot be stemmed by current antimicrobial therapies and supportive measures. New paradigms for the mechanism and resolution of sepsis and consequences for sepsis survivors are emerging. Consistent with Benjamin Franklin's dictum ?an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure?, sepsis can be prevented by vaccinations against pneumococci and meningococci. Recently, the NIH NHLBI Panel redefined sepsis as ?severe endothelial dysfunction syndrome in response to intravascular and extravascular infections causing reversible or irreversible injury to the microcirculation responsible for multiple organ failure?. Microvascular endothelial injury underlies sepsis-associated hypotension, edema, disseminated intravascular coagulation, acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute kidney injury. Microbial genome products trigger ?genome wars? in sepsis that reprogram the human genome and culminate in a ?genomic storm? in blood and vascular cells. Sepsis can be averted experimentally by endothelial cytoprotection through targeting nuclear signaling that mediates inflammation and deranged metabolism. Endothelial ?rheostats? (e.g. inhibitors of NF-?B, A20 protein, CRADD/RAIDD protein and microRNAs) regulate endothelial signaling. Physiologic ?extinguishers? (e.g. suppressor of cytokine signaling 3) can be replenished through intracellular protein therapy. Lipid mediators (e.g. resolvin D1) hasten sepsis resolution. As sepsis cases rose from 387 330 in 1996 to 1.1 million in 2011, and are estimated to reach 2 million by 2020 in the US, mortality due to sepsis approaches that of heart attacks and exceeds deaths from stroke. More preventive vaccines and therapeutic measures are urgently needed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rathkolb, Birgit
AU  - Fuchs, Helmut
AU  - Gailus-Durner, Valérie
AU  - Aigner, Bernhard
AU  - Wolf, Eckhard
AU  - Hrabě de Angelis, Martin
TI  - Blood Collection from Mice and Hematological Analyses on Mouse Blood
JO  - Current Protocols in Mouse Biology
JA  - Current Protocols in Mouse Biology
VL  - 3
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781118492222
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470942390.mo130054
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780470942390.mo130054
SP  - 101
EP  - 119
KW  - mouse
KW  - blood sample collection
KW  - hematology
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Basic phenotyping of inbred mouse strains and genetically modified mouse models usually includes the determination of blood-based parameters as a diagnostic screen for genotype effects on metabolism and organ function. A broad range of analytes, including hematological parameters, can be reliably determined in mouse blood, if appropriate samples are available. Here we describe recommended techniques for blood collection from mice and the considerations that have to be taken into account to get adequate samples for hematological investigations. Furthermore, we describe established methods used in the German Mouse Clinic (GMC) to determine hematological parameters in the mouse. Curr. Protoc. Mouse Biol. 3:101-119 ? 2013 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
ER  - 
