
AU  - Nguyen, Patricia
AU  - Yang, Phillip
C7  - pp. 154-195
TI  - MR Angiography: Coronaries and Great Vessels
SN  - 9781405185530
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444323894.ch7
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444323894.ch7
SP  - 154-195
KW  - MR angiography, coronaries and great vessels
KW  - Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of coronary arteries and great vessels - promising alternative to invasive angiography
KW  - noninvasive diagnostic imaging of coronary arteries - clinical goals in cardiovascular medicine
KW  - motion compensation techniques
KW  - pulse sequence design, from black blood, spine echo (SE) sequences - to bright blood sequences as GRE and (SSFP)
KW  - intrinsic and extrinsic contrast agents - differentiating blood and surrounding tissue
KW  - clinical implementation of C-MRA
KW  - technical strategies specific to GV-MRA
KW  - aortic rupture, trauma a lesion extending - from intima to adventitia
KW  - TOF MRA studies of carotid arteries
PY  - 2010
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Summary Introduction Challenges Technical Advances in Coronary MRA Clinical Implementation of C-MRA Technical Strategies Specific to GV-MRA Clinical Implementation of GV-MRA Future Direction Conclusion References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Borsook, David
AU  - Becerra, Lino
AU  - Carlezon Jr., William A.
AU  - Shaw, Marnie
AU  - Renshaw, Perry
AU  - Elman, Igor
AU  - Levine, Jon
TI  - Reward-aversion circuitry in analgesia and pain: Implications for psychiatric disorders
JO  - European Journal of Pain
VL  - 11
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405185530
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejpain.2005.12.005
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.ejpain.2005.12.005
SP  - 7
EP  - 7
KW  - Pain
KW  - Reward
KW  - Functional imaging
KW  - Functional illness
KW  - Depression
KW  - Anxiety
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract Sensory and emotional systems normally interact in a manner that optimizes an organism's ability to survive using conscious and unconscious processing. Pain and analgesia are interpreted by the nervous system as aversive and rewarding processes that trigger specific behavioral responses. Under normal physiological conditions these processes are adaptive. However, under chronic pain conditions, functional alterations of the central nervous system frequently result in maladaptive behaviors. In this review, we examine: (a) the interactions between sensory and emotional systems involved in processing pain and analgesia in the physiological state; (b) the role of reward/aversion circuitry in pain and analgesia; and (c) the role of alterations in reward/aversion circuitry in the development of chronic pain and co-morbid psychiatric disorders. These underlying features have implications for understanding the neurobiology of functional illnesses such as depression and anxiety and for the development and evaluation of novel therapeutic interventions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ma, Yufei
AU  - Huang, Jie
AU  - Song, Saijie
AU  - Chen, Huabing
AU  - Zhang, Zhijun
TI  - Cancer-Targeted Nanotheranostics: Recent Advances and Perspectives
JO  - Small
JA  - Small
VL  - 12
IS  - 36
SN  - 9781405185530
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201600635
DO  - doi:10.1002/smll.201600635
SP  - 4936
EP  - 4954
KW  - imaging
KW  - nanomaterials
KW  - nanomedicine
KW  - theranostics
KW  - therapy
PY  - 2016
AB  - Cancer-targeted nanotechnology is experiencing the trend of finding new materials with multiple functions for imaging and therapeutic applications. With the rapid development of the related fields, there exists a large number of reports regarding theranostic nanomedicine, decreasing the gap between cancer diagnosis and treatment with minimized separate comprehensions. In order to present an overview on the cancer-targeted nanotheranostics, we first describe their essential building blocks, including platforms, therapeutic agents and imaging agents, and then the recently rapidly developed multimodal theranostic systems. Finally we discuss the major challenges and the perspectives of future development of nanotheranostics toward clinical translations and personalized nanomedicine.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Arpinar, V. Emre
AU  - Gliedt, Jordan A.
AU  - King, Jeffrey A.
AU  - Maiman, Dennis J.
AU  - Muftuler, L. Tugan
TI  - Oswestry Disability Index scores correlate with MRI measurements in degenerating intervertebral discs and endplates
JO  - European Journal of Pain
JA  - Eur J Pain
VL  - 24
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781405185530
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ejp.1490
DO  - doi:10.1002/ejp.1490
SP  - 346
EP  - 353
PY  - 2020
AB  - Abstract Background Low back pain (LBP) is a widespread problem and the leading cause of disability worldwide. While the cause of LBP is multifactorial, several studies suggested that inflammatory mediators in damaged subchondral plates of degenerating discs may lead to chemical sensitization and mechanical stimulation, eventually causing pain. The goal of this study was to explore associations between such changes and LBP-related disability using dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI. Methods Thirty-two patients diagnosed with nonspecific LBP and 24 healthy control subjects were studied with dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCEMRI) MRI and T1r (spin?lattice relaxation in the rotating frame) acquisitions. DCEMRI enhancement in disc endplate regions and average T1? measurements in the nucleus pulposus were extracted. The LBP patients were grouped based on their Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores and associations between MRI measurements and ODI scores were analyzed. Results Significant associations were found between ODI scores and DCEMRI enhancement in the cartilaginous endplate regions of the most degenerated discs. ODI scores also correlated with T1? measurements in the nucleus pulposus of degenerating discs. Conclusions DCEMRI enhancement in the cartilaginous endplate regions and lower T1? measurements in the nucleus pulposus (NP) were associated with greater disability that is related to low back pain as reported on the ODI. This complements earlier reports suggesting a link between LBP and endplate degeneration. Further studies are needed to validate these findings. Significance Our findings indicated that dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI signal enhancement in the cartilaginous endplate regions were associated with greater disability related to low back pain. This signal enhancement might be an indication of inflammatory changes in disc endplate regions. Therefore, advanced quantitative imaging techniques like the ones presented in this study might be needed to complement conventional radiological evaluations to identify the subset of patients who could potentially benefit from novel therapies directed towards treating the disc endplate regions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Curtis, L.
AU  - Bayes, T.C.
AU  - England, G.C.W.
AU  - Burford, J.H.
AU  - Freeman, S.L.
TI  - Systematic Review of Risk Factors for Equine Colic
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 46
IS  - S47
SN  - 9781405185530
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12323_47
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12323_47
SP  - 21
EP  - 21
PY  - 2014
AB  - Reasons for performing the study There are several epidemiological studies that have reported on risk factors for colic, this data has not been systematically reviewed. Objectives To systematically review the current evidence on risk factors for colic in the horse. Study design Systematic review in compliance with PRISMA guidelines. Methods The primary literature search was conducted in CAB Winner of Voorjaarsdagen Award 2014 (1910?2012), Web of Science (1950?2012) and MEDLINE (1946?2012) (between 23?26 November 2012), using the following terms: (horses OR horse OR equine OR equines OR equus OR equidae OR equids OR equid) AND colic. Publications were assessed independently against inclusion criteria (peer-reviewed articles relating to risk, causes, aetiology or predictors of colic) and exclusion criteria (nongastrointestinal or specific conditions, <3 cases) by LC and SF. Those selected were reviewed using a specifically developed quality assessment criteria (QAC) scoring system. Articles were ranked according to the QAC with those scoring greater than a specific critical threshold considered to be of the highest level of evidence. Results The search identified 1385 publications; 90 related to risk factors, 36 met the inclusion criteria and were assessed using the QAC. Nine publications were selected for final evaluation. Eight studies were based in the USA, and one multi-centre study in Europe. Individual papers identified risk factors pertaining to signalment, use of horse, clinical history, diet and other management details; however, there was inconclusive agreement for the majority of factors investigated. Consistent consensus between ≥3 studies identified increasing age, Arab and Thoroughbred breeds, recent change in diet or housing and a previous history of colic as significant risk factors for colic. Conclusions Evidence for many risk factors is weak and inconsistent, with a variety of confounders and interactions across the studies. There is strong evidence for age, breed, management changes and recent clinical history as risk factors. Ethical animal research:?The study was reviewed and approved by the School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham Ethics Committee. Sources of funding:?Laila Curtis was funded by the School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham. Competing interests:?None.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 160-208
TI  - Psycho-Educational Interventions
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444308075.ch8
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444308075.ch8
SP  - 160-208
KW  - psycho-educational interventions
KW  - interventions based on emotional disclosure
KW  - social support interventions
KW  - multi-component interventions, focusing on exercise
KW  - multi-component self-management interventions
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Cognitive Behavioural Interventions Interventions Based on Emotional Disclosure Social Support Interventions Multi-Component Interventions Focused Primarily on Exercise Multi-Component Self-Management Interventions Personal Development Interventions Interventions for Enhancing Employment Potential Interventions in JIA Effectiveness of Psycho-Educational Interventions Chapter Summary
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Meek, Robert
AU  - McGannon, Dan
AU  - Edwards, Liza
TI  - The safety of nurse clearance of the cervical spine using the National Emergency X-radiography Utilization Study low-risk criteria
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 19
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-6723.2007.00995.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1742-6723.2007.00995.x
SP  - 372
EP  - 376
KW  - cervical vertebrae
KW  - clinical pathways
KW  - emergency medicine
KW  - emergency nursing
KW  - reliability
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract Objectives:? To determine the level of agreement between trained ED nursing staff and senior ED medical staff in the application and interpretation of the National Emergency X-radiography Utilization Study (NEXUS) low-risk criteria (NLC). Methods:? A NEXUS training and accreditation package was developed. It was successfully undertaken by 22 senior ED nursing staff and 26 senior ED medical staff. A study nurse and doctor independently applied the NLC to a convenience sample of patients who had been placed in a hard cervical collar prior to arrival in the ED. The findings for each of the NLC and the overall decision regarding collar removal were recorded on specific case report forms. The primary endpoint was the level of agreement for the overall decision to leave the collar in place. Levels of agreement for the individual NLC were also examined. Results:? In total, 183 patients were recruited. The level of ?safe agreement? where nursing and medical staff agreed that the collar should be left in place was 94.3% (95% CI: 89.5?97.2%). Agreement with regard to individual NLC varied from good to fair. The median times from patient arrival to completion of study nurse and doctor assessments were 14?min (interquartile ranges [IQR] 5?30) and 29?min (IQR 15?47), respectively. Conclusion:? The study demonstrated a high level of agreement between nursing and medical staff for stable low-risk trauma patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jack Jr., Clifford R.
AU  - Bennett, David A.
AU  - Blennow, Kaj
AU  - Carrillo, Maria C.
AU  - Dunn, Billy
AU  - Haeberlein, Samantha Budd
AU  - Holtzman, David M.
AU  - Jagust, William
AU  - Jessen, Frank
AU  - Karlawish, Jason
AU  - Liu, Enchi
AU  - Molinuevo, Jose Luis
AU  - Montine, Thomas
AU  - Phelps, Creighton
AU  - Rankin, Katherine P.
AU  - Rowe, Christopher C.
AU  - Scheltens, Philip
AU  - Siemers, Eric
AU  - Snyder, Heather M.
AU  - Sperling, Reisa
AU  - Contributors
AU  - Elliott, Cerise
AU  - Masliah, Eliezer
AU  - Ryan, Laurie
AU  - Silverberg, Nina
TI  - NIA-AA Research Framework: Toward a biological definition of Alzheimer's disease
JO  - Alzheimer's & Dementia
JA  - Alzheimer's & Dementia
VL  - 14
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jalz.2018.02.018
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.jalz.2018.02.018
SP  - 535
EP  - 562
KW  - Alzheimer's disease diagnosis
KW  - Preclinical Alzheimer's disease
KW  - Biomarkers Alzheimer's disease
KW  - CSF biomarkers Alzheimer's disease
KW  - Alzheimer's disease imaging
KW  - Amyloid PET
KW  - Tau PET
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract In 2011, the National Institute on Aging and Alzheimer's Association created separate diagnostic recommendations for the preclinical, mild cognitive impairment, and dementia stages of Alzheimer's disease. Scientific progress in the interim led to an initiative by the National Institute on Aging and Alzheimer's Association to update and unify the 2011 guidelines. This unifying update is labeled a ?research framework? because its intended use is for observational and interventional research, not routine clinical care. In the National Institute on Aging and Alzheimer's Association Research Framework, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is defined by its underlying pathologic processes that can be documented by postmortem examination or in vivo by biomarkers. The diagnosis is not based on the clinical consequences of the disease (i.e., symptoms/signs) in this research framework, which shifts the definition of AD in living people from a syndromal to a biological construct. The research framework focuses on the diagnosis of AD with biomarkers in living persons. Biomarkers are grouped into those of ? amyloid deposition, pathologic tau, and neurodegeneration [AT(N)]. This ATN classification system groups different biomarkers (imaging and biofluids) by the pathologic process each measures. The AT(N) system is flexible in that new biomarkers can be added to the three existing AT(N) groups, and new biomarker groups beyond AT(N) can be added when they become available. We focus on AD as a continuum, and cognitive staging may be accomplished using continuous measures. However, we also outline two different categorical cognitive schemes for staging the severity of cognitive impairment: a scheme using three traditional syndromal categories and a six-stage numeric scheme. It is important to stress that this framework seeks to create a common language with which investigators can generate and test hypotheses about the interactions among different pathologic processes (denoted by biomarkers) and cognitive symptoms. We appreciate the concern that this biomarker-based research framework has the potential to be misused. Therefore, we emphasize, first, it is premature and inappropriate to use this research framework in general medical practice. Second, this research framework should not be used to restrict alternative approaches to hypothesis testing that do not use biomarkers. There will be situations where biomarkers are not available or requiring them would be counterproductive to the specific research goals (discussed in more detail later in the document). Thus, biomarker-based research should not be considered a template for all research into age-related cognitive impairment and dementia; rather, it should be applied when it is fit for the purpose of the specific research goals of a study. Importantly, this framework should be examined in diverse populations. Although it is possible that ?-amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tau deposits are not causal in AD pathogenesis, it is these abnormal protein deposits that define AD as a unique neurodegenerative disease among different disorders that can lead to dementia. We envision that defining AD as a biological construct will enable a more accurate characterization and understanding of the sequence of events that lead to cognitive impairment that is associated with AD, as well as the multifactorial etiology of dementia. This approach also will enable a more precise approach to interventional trials where specific pathways can be targeted in the disease process and in the appropriate people.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bell, Tobyn
AU  - Mackie, Lynn
AU  - Bennett-Levy, James
C8  - CPP-0821.R1
TI  - ‘Venturing Towards the Dark Side’: The Use of Imagery Interventions by Recently Qualified Cognitive–Behavioural Therapists
JO  - Clinical Psychology & Psychotherapy
JA  - Clin. Psychol. Psychother.
VL  - 22
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cpp.1920
DO  - doi:10.1002/cpp.1920
SP  - 591
EP  - 603
KW  - Imagery
KW  - Cognitive Behavioural Therapy
KW  - Therapist Skills
KW  - Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA)
KW  - CBT Training
PY  - 2015
AB  - Despite the growing recognition of the value of mental imagery within the field of cognitive?behavioural therapy (CBT), there is minimal research relating to clinicians' experiences of using imagery. This paper explores recently qualified CBT therapists' clinical experiences of using imagery and their perception of the role of imagery within their practice. Twelve therapists, qualified within the past 4?years, were interviewed using a semi-structured format, and the resulting transcriptions were analysed using Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA). The analysis identified six super-ordinate themes: (1) broad and fluid conception of imagery; (2) the importance given to imagery and the varied rationale for its inclusion; (3) varied application; (4) clinician avoidance and apprehension; (5) personal experience of imagery and impact on use; and (6) limited core training and the potential for future use. The themes, as a whole, described a complex and often dichotomous reaction to imagery amongst the therapists. Although a section of participants reported a natural affinity with imagery, other therapists felt that using, and experiencing, imagery was anxiety provoking and problematic. There was, however, unity in the value placed on imagery, the strong rationale for usage and the importance given to imagery-specific training. Avoidance and apprehension regarding imagery were evident in the majority of participants, and the reasons for such responses included personal, clinical and cultural factors. The overall findings highlight the importance of clinician factors in the way in which imagery is utilized and understood, which has positive implications for training, personal development and future research. Copyright ? 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Key Practitioner Message There is a universal recognition of the value of imagery for experiential learning and emotional connection. Therapists apply a variety of rationales for using imagery. Avoidance of using imagery in CBT practice is widely reported and occurs for a variety of personal and clinical reasons. Clinicians' own experience of imagery has a significant influence on the way in which imagery is understood, utilized and experienced in therapy. Future training and research in imagery should more explicitly address the clinician factors that can inhibit or facilitate the use of evidence-based imagery interventions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Duyn, Jeff H.
AU  - Schenck, John
C7  - e3546
C8  - NBM-15-0325.R1
TI  - Contributions to magnetic susceptibility of brain tissue
JO  - NMR in Biomedicine
JA  - NMR Biomed.
VL  - 30
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/nbm.3546
DO  - doi:10.1002/nbm.3546
SP  - e3546
KW  - magnetic susceptibility
KW  - iron
KW  - myelin
PY  - 2017
AB  - This review discusses the major contributors to the subtle magnetic properties of brain tissue and how they affect MRI contrast. With the increased availability of high-field scanners, the use of magnetic susceptibility contrast for the study of human brain anatomy and function has increased dramatically. This has not only led to novel applications, but has also improved our understanding of the complex relationship between MRI contrast and magnetic susceptibility. Chief contributors to the magnetic susceptibility of brain tissue have been found to include myelin as well as iron. In the brain, iron exists in various forms with diverse biological roles, many of which are now only starting to be uncovered. An interesting aspect of magnetic susceptibility contrast is its sensitivity to the microscopic distribution of iron and myelin, which provides opportunities to extract information at spatial scales well below MRI resolution. For example, in white matter, the myelin sheath that surrounds the axons can provide tissue contrast that is dependent on the axonal orientation and reflects the relative size of intra- and extra-axonal water compartments. The extraction of such ultrastructural information, together with quantitative information about iron and myelin concentrations, is an active area of research geared towards the characterization of brain structure and function, and their alteration in disease. Copyright ? 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hesse, Eliane
AU  - Freudenberg, Uwe
AU  - Niemietz, Thomas
AU  - Greth, Carina
AU  - Weisser, Melanie
AU  - Hagmann, Sébastien
AU  - Binner, Marcus
AU  - Werner, Carsten
AU  - Richter, Wiltrud
C8  - TERM-16-0355.R1
TI  - Peptide-functionalized starPEG/heparin hydrogels direct mitogenicity, cell morphology and cartilage matrix distribution in vitro and in vivo
JO  - Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine
JA  - J Tissue Eng Regen Med
VL  - 12
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/term.2404
DO  - doi:10.1002/term.2404
SP  - 229
EP  - 239
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Cell-based tissue engineering is a promising approach for treating cartilage lesions, but available strategies still provide a distinct composition of the extracellular matrix and an inferior mechanical property compared to native cartilage. To achieve fully functional tissue replacement more rationally designed biomaterials may be needed, introducing bioactive molecules which modulate cell behavior and guide tissue regeneration. This study aimed at exploring the impact of cell-instructive, adhesion-binding (GCWGGRGDSP called RGD) and collagen-binding (CKLER/CWYRGRL) peptides, incorporated in a tunable, matrixmetalloprotease (MMP)-responsive multi-arm poly(ethylene glycol) (starPEG)/heparin hydrogel on cartilage regeneration parameters in vitro and in vivo. MMP-responsive-starPEG-conjugates with cysteine termini and heparin-maleimide, optionally pre-functionalized with RGD, CKLER, CWYRGRL or control peptides, were cross-linked by Michael type addition to embed and grow mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) or chondrocytes. While starPEG/heparin-hydrogel strongly supported chondrogenesis of MSC according to COL2A1, BGN and ACAN induction, MMP-degradability enhanced cell viability and proliferation. RGD-modification of the gels promoted cell spreading with intense cell network formation without negative effects on chondrogenesis. However, CKLER and CWYRGRL were unable to enhance the collagen content of constructs. RGD-modification allowed more even collagen type II distribution by chondrocytes throughout the MMP-responsive constructs, especially in vivo. Collectively, peptide-instruction via heparin-enriched MMP-degradable starPEG allowed adjustment of self-renewal, cell morphology and cartilage matrix distribution in order to guide MSC and chondrocyte-based cartilage regeneration towards an improved outcome. Copyright ? 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Shen, Peter Y.
AU  - Nidecker, Anna E.
AU  - Neufeld, Ethan A.
AU  - Lee, Paul S.
AU  - James, Michelle A.
AU  - Bauer, Andrea S.
TI  - Non-Sedated Rapid Volumetric Proton Density MRI Predicts Neonatal Brachial Plexus Birth Palsy Functional Outcome
JO  - Journal of Neuroimaging
JA  - J Neuroimaging
VL  - 27
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jon.12389
DO  - doi:10.1111/jon.12389
SP  - 248
EP  - 254
KW  - Brachial plexus
KW  - birth palsy
KW  - magnetic resonance imaging
PY  - 2017
AB  - ABSTRACT BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE The current prognostic biomarker of functional outcome in brachial plexus birth palsy is serial clinical examination throughout the first 6 months of age. This can delay surgical treatment and prolong parental anxiety in neonates who will recover spontaneously. A potentially superior biomarker is a volumetric proton density MRI performed at clinical presentation and within the first 12 weeks of life, providing a high spatial and contrast resolution examination in 4 minutes. METHODS Nine neonates ranging in age from 4 to 9 weeks who presented with brachial plexus birth palsy were enrolled. All subjects underwent non-sedated 3 Tesla MRI with Cube Proton Density MRI sequence at the same time as their initial clinical visit. Serial clinical examinations were conducted at routine 4 week intervals and the functional performance scores were recorded. MRI findings were divided into pre-ganglionic and post-ganglionic injuries and a radiological scoring system (Shriners Radiological Score) was developed for this study. RESULTS Proton Density MRI was able to differentiate between pre-ganglionic and post-ganglionic injuries. Radiological scores (Shriners Radiological Score) correlated better with functional performance at 6 months of age (P = .022) than the initial clinical examinations (Active Movement Scale P = .213 and Toronto P = .320). CONCLUSIONS Rapid non-sedated volumetric Cube Proton Density MRI protocol performed at initial clinical presentation can accurately grade severity of brachial plexus birth palsy injury and predict functional performance at 6 months of age.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Taylor, David McD
AU  - Cohen, Donna R
AU  - Epstein, Joseph
AU  - Freeman, Peter
AU  - Gosbell, Andrew D
AU  - Judkins, Simon
AU  - Mowatt, Elizabeth JM
AU  - O'Reilly, Gerard M
AU  - Vinen, John
C8  - EMA-2015-264
TI  - Development of a productive research culture in emergency medicine: Report of the outcomes of a research forum
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 28
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.12504
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.12504
SP  - 113
EP  - 118
KW  - clinical trials
KW  - education
KW  - research
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract In recent years, the Australasian College for Emergency Medicine (ACEM) has increasingly focused on the need for high-quality research in emergency medicine (EM). One important initiative was the establishment of the ACEM Foundation, which among other responsibilities, is required to support clinical research through the provision of research funding and other measures. In February 2015, the Foundation held a Research Forum that was attended by the leading EM researchers from Australasia. The Forum aimed to determine how a productive research culture could be developed within the ACEM. Nine key objectives were determined including that research should be a core business of the ACEM and a core activity of the EM workforce, and that EM research should be sustainable and adequately supported. This report describes the background and conduct of the Forum, its recommendations and the way in which they could be implemented.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Klose, Alexander D.
AU  - Hielscher, Andreas H.
TI  - Iterative reconstruction scheme for optical tomography based on the equation of radiative transfer
JO  - Medical Physics
JA  - Med. Phys.
VL  - 26
IS  - 8
SN  - 9781405108102
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1118/1.598661
DO  - doi:10.1118/1.598661
SP  - 1698
EP  - 1707
KW  - equation of radiative transfer
KW  - optical tomography
KW  - finite difference
KW  - discrete ordinates, turbid media
KW  - inverse problems
KW  - upwind scheme
KW  - adjoint differentiation
KW  - Visual imaging
KW  - Image reconstruction; tomography
KW  - Image analysis
KW  - Finite-difference methods
KW  - Image processing
KW  - Numerical optimization
KW  - Thermal radiation
KW  - Mathematical methods in physics
KW  - optical tomography
KW  - medical image processing
KW  - image reconstruction
KW  - radiative transfer
KW  - minimisation
KW  - finite difference methods
KW  - inverse problems
KW  - Radiative transfer
KW  - Optical properties
KW  - Tomography
KW  - Optical sensors
KW  - Turbid media
KW  - Photons
KW  - Image reconstruction
KW  - Diffusion
KW  - Medical image reconstruction
KW  - Ultrafast optical diffusion tomography
PY  - 1999
AB  - We report on the development of an iterative image reconstruction scheme for optical tomography that is based on the equation of radiative transfer. Unlike the commonly applied diffusion approximation, the equation of radiative transfer accurately describes the photon propagation in turbid media without any limiting assumptions regarding the optical properties. The reconstruction scheme consists of three major parts: (1) a forward model that predicts the detector readings based on solutions of the time-independent radiative transfer equation, (2) an objective function that provides a measure of the differences between the detected and the predicted data, and (3) an updating scheme that uses the gradient of the objective function to perform a line minimization to get new guesses of the optical properties. The gradient is obtained by employing an adjoint differentiation scheme, which makes use of the structure of the finite-difference discrete-ordinate formulation of the transport forward model. Based on the new guess of the optical properties a new forward calculation is performed to get new detector predictions. The reconstruction process is completed when the minimum of the objective function is found within a defined error. To illustrate the performance of the code we present initial reconstruction results based on simulated data.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 429-447
TI  - Nasal Discharge
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119414612.ch33
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119414612.ch33
SP  - 429-447
KW  - airway
KW  - upper respiratory tract
KW  - nares
KW  - nostrils
KW  - nasal alae
KW  - nasal planum
KW  - nasal cavities
KW  - nasal septum
KW  - conchae
KW  - turbinates
KW  - nasal passages
KW  - meatus
KW  - sinuses
KW  - frontal sinus
KW  - maxillary sinus
KW  - pharynx
KW  - larynx
KW  - nose
KW  - cobblestone
KW  - stenotic nares
KW  - brachycephalic breeds
KW  - olfaction
KW  - respiratory function
KW  - air
KW  - nasal mucosa
KW  - vascular congestion
KW  - “stuffy”
KW  - mucus
KW  - particulate matter
KW  - ciliary action
KW  - nasal discharge
KW  - serous nasal discharge
KW  - abnormal nasal discharge
KW  - unilateral nasal discharge
KW  - bilateral nasal discharge
KW  - acute nasal discharge
KW  - chronic nasal discharge
KW  - color
KW  - transparency
KW  - consistency
KW  - watery
KW  - thick
KW  - gelatinous
KW  - mucoid
KW  - mucopurulent
KW  - purulent
KW  - serohemorrhagic
KW  - hemorrhagic
KW  - cytology
KW  - degenerate neutrophils
KW  - bacteria
KW  - intracellular bacteria
KW  - upper respiratory infections (URIs)
KW  - epistaxis
KW  - erythrocytes
KW  - trauma
KW  - fungal infections
KW  - neoplasia
KW  - systemic disease
KW  - coagulopathies
KW  - thrombocytopenia
KW  - vasculitis
KW  - hypertension
KW  - bartonellosis
KW  - ehrlichiosis
KW  - leishmaniasis
KW  - signalment
KW  - differential diagnoses
KW  - congenital disease
KW  - cleft palates
KW  - foreign bodies
KW  - infectious disease
KW  - neoplastic disease
KW  - dolichocephalic breeds
KW  - comprehensive history
KW  - health history
KW  - patient history
KW  - lifestyle
KW  - travel history
KW  - exposure to conspecifics
KW  - vaccination history
KW  - Actinomyces spp
KW  - Bordetella bronchiseptica
KW  - Chlamydophila felis
KW  - chlamydiosis
KW  - Mycoplasma felis
KW  - Mycoplasma gatae
KW  - Aspergillus spp
KW  - coccidioidomycosis
KW  - Valley Fever
KW  - Cryptococcus neoformans
KW  - Cryptococcus gattii
KW  - Canine infectious respiratory disease (CIRD)
KW  - feline calicivirus
KW  - feline herpesvirus-1 (FHV-1)
KW  - Capillaria aerophila
KW  - Cuterebra spp
KW  - canine adenovirus-2 (CAV-2)
KW  - canine distemper virus (CDV)
KW  - canine herpesvirus
KW  - canine influenza (H3N8)
KW  - canine parainfluenza
KW  - canine respiratory coronavirus
KW  - nasal aspergillosis
KW  - Aspergillus fumigatus
KW  - sinonasal aspergillosis
KW  - depigmentation
KW  - spores
KW  - deformation
KW  - lytic changes
KW  - cribriform plate
KW  - paranasal bone
KW  - orbital lamina
KW  - advanced imaging
KW  - computed tomography (CT) scan
KW  - cryptococcosis
KW  - Roman nose
KW  - nasofacial swelling
KW  - ataxia
KW  - seizures
KW  - paralysis
KW  - hyperesthesia
KW  - conjunctivitis
KW  - sneezing
KW  - “chronic snufflers”
KW  - persistent rhinitis
KW  - rhinosinusitis
KW  - allergic rhinitis
KW  - lymphoplasmacytic rhinitis (LPR)
KW  - chronic inflammatory rhinitis
KW  - nasopharyngeal polyp
KW  - rhinoscopy
KW  - hyperemia
KW  - edema
KW  - plasma cell
KW  - lymphocytic infiltration
KW  - adenocarcinomas
KW  - squamous cell carcinoma (SCC)
KW  - transitional cell carcinoma
KW  - undifferentiated carcinoma
KW  - lymphoma
KW  - sarcomas
KW  - chondrosarcoma
KW  - fibrosarcoma
KW  - osteosarcoma
KW  - hemangiosarcoma
KW  - mast cell tumor
KW  - melanoma
KW  - plasma cell tumor
KW  - patency of airflow
KW  - glass slide
KW  - cotton wool
KW  - magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
KW  - olfactory bulb
KW  - biopsies
KW  - bleeding
KW  - radiation therapy
KW  - radiation-induced cataracts
KW  - feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV)
KW  - feline leukemia virus (FeLV)
KW  - surgical debulking
KW  - non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
KW  - piroxicam
KW  - clefts
KW  - clefts of the primary palate
KW  - clefts of the secondary palate
KW  - oronasal fistula
KW  - periodontal disease
KW  - traumatic avulsion
KW  - maxillary canine tooth
KW  - severe overbite
KW  - iatrogenic oronasal fistula
KW  - dental extractions
KW  - mucoperiosteal flap
KW  - bite wound
KW  - gunshot or pellet wound
KW  - automobile-associated trauma
KW  - penetrating foreign body
KW  - clinical approach
PY  - 1999
AB  - Summary The respiratory system is complex. Although it consists of upper and lower respiratory tracts, the former is the focus of this chapter. The primary function of the upper respiratory tract is to conduct air from the external environment into the lower airway. This process begins at the external nose. Air moves through the nares and into paired nasal cavities. Air is cleansed, warmed, and humidified during its passage through the upper respiratory tract. A small amount of serous nasal discharge can be considered normal in the companion animal patient. However, copious amounts of serous nasal discharge may be indicative of pathology. Nasal discharge is a common complaint in companion animal practice. Its presentation is immensely variable in terms of color, translucency, and consistency, but it is most frequently described by cellular content as being mucoid, mucopurulent, serohemorrhagic, or hemorrhagic. Onset of nasal discharge may be acute, chronic, or recurrent. Nasal discharge may be unilateral or bilateral, or laterality may change with disease progression. It may occur in isolation of systemic signs of disease? or the patient may be systemically ill. Each fact deduced from history taking and every finding on physical examination provides a clue as to the likelihood of the underlying cause. Nasal discharge is particularly frustrating to the veterinary client and clinician alike when it is chronic. In such cases, secondary bacterial infection is common, and although antibiotic therapy may provide transient resolution of clinical signs, recurrence is likely without having identified or addressed the primary issue. A definitive diagnosis requires a multifaceted approach. Signalment, case history, and physical examination findings collectively assist with disease localization and prioritization of differential diagnoses. However, ancillary diagnostic tests are invaluable. A combination of cytology, histopathology, bacteriology, mycology, and imaging studies may be necessary to rule out infectious, inflammatory, and/or neoplastic disease. Idiopathic rhinitis and sinorhinitis are relatively common among companion animal patients. Nasal disease may also be congenital, genetic, or iatrogenic in origin.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Varley, G.
AU  - Bowen, I. M.
AU  - Habershon-Butcher, J. L.
AU  - Nicholls, V.
AU  - Hallowell, G. D.
TI  - Misoprostol is superior to combined omeprazole-sucralfate for the treatment of equine gastric glandular disease
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 51
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.13087
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.13087
SP  - 575
EP  - 580
KW  - horse
KW  - stomach
KW  - EGGD
KW  - EGUS
KW  - gastroscopy
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary Background Previous studies have demonstrated a poor response to healing of gastric glandular lesions with oral omeprazole and other medications. Objectives To evaluate the efficacy of two novel treatments (misoprostol [M] and combined omeprazole-sucralfate [OS]) in horses for gastric glandular disease. Study design Prospective, clinical study. Methods Sixty-three sports horses with grade >1/4 glandular disease were identified by gastroscopy. Horses received either 5 ?g/kg of misoprostol per os BID 1 h prior to feeding or a combination of 4 mg/kg enteric coated omeprazole per os SID and 12 mg/kg sucralfate per os BID where drugs were given 1 h prior to feeding and sucralfate given 60 min after omeprazole; allocation was dependent upon centre. Gastroscopy was repeated at 28?35 days. Evaluators of the gastroscopy images were blinded to the treatments the horses received and images were reviewed independently. Results The most common presenting sign in both treatment groups was poor performance (Overall ? 65.1%; M ? 60.5% and OS ? 75%). Overall healing (P<0.001; OR = 11 [2.8?45]) and improvement (P = 0.006; OR = 11 [1.9?59]) of lesions were associated with resolution of clinical signs. Misoprostol was shown to be superior to combined omeprazole-sucralfate both for healing (M ? 72% [95% CI 43?67] and OS ? 20% [95% CI 7?41]; P<0.001) and improvement (M ? 98% [95% CI 90?100] and OS ? 65% [95% CI 43?83]; P<0.001). Main limitations Relatively small, clinical study, reliance on client questionnaire data, clients not blinded to the treatments the horse received, diet could have affected drug pharmacodynamics although mimics clinical practice and no validated scoring system available for glandular lesions. Conclusions These results suggest that gastric glandular disease does indeed result in clinical signs. In this population of horses, misoprostol was superior to omeprazole and sucralfate and warrants further evaluation in a large scale, multi-centre trial.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nakamura, Kenta
AU  - Passeri, Jonathan J.
AU  - Inglessis-Azuaje, Ignacio
TI  - Percutaneous closure of acute aorto-right ventricular fistula following transcatheter bicuspid aortic valve replacement
JO  - Catheterization and Cardiovascular Interventions
JA  - Cathet. Cardiovasc. Intervent.
VL  - 90
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ccd.26705
DO  - doi:10.1002/ccd.26705
SP  - 164
EP  - 168
KW  - aortic valve disease
KW  - percutaneous intervention
KW  - fistula
KW  - shunts
KW  - transcatheter valve implantation
PY  - 2017
AB  - We report a case of acute aorto-right ventricular fistula following transcatheter bicuspid aortic valve replacement and subsequent percutaneous closure. The diagnosis and treatment of this rare complication is illustrated through multi-modality imaging. We hypothesize that the patient's heavily calcified bicuspid aortic valve anatomy led to asymmetric deployment of the transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) prosthesis, traumatizing the right sinus of Valsalva at the distal edge of the TAVR stent and ultimately fistulized to the right ventricle. The patient acutely decompensated with heart failure five days after TAVR and underwent emergent intervention. The aorto-right ventricular fistula was closed using an 18-mm septal occluder device with marked clinical recovery. Transcatheter closure is a viable treatment option for acute aorto-right ventricular fistula. ? 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

AU  - Mangla, Sundeep
C7  - pp. 516-536
TI  - Intervention in Intracranial Arteries
SN  - 9781405169554
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444312584.ch28
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444312584.ch28
SP  - 516-536
KW  - intervention in intracranial arteries
KW  - Ischemic stroke, intracranial atherosclerotic disease – causes of morbidity and mortality
KW  - high-risk territory lesions
KW  - posterior circulation ischemic syndromes
KW  - common anatomic variations
KW  - asymptomatic stenosis
KW  - intracranial atherosclerosis
KW  - small vessel arterial perforator occlusion
KW  - non-invasive cross-sectional imaging techniques
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: General Overview Pre-procedural Evaluation Clinical Evaluation Non-invasive Imaging Peri-operative Management Standard Techniques Neuro-intervention During Stroke Neurovascular Rescue References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cereda, Alberto Francesco
AU  - De Luca, Fabio
AU  - Lanzone, Alberto M.
AU  - Cottini, Marzia
AU  - Pastori, Luca
AU  - Sangiorgi, Giuseppe
TI  - Case report and systematic review of iatrogenic left atrial dissection in different cardiovascular specialties: A common treatment for an uncommon complication?
JO  - Catheterization and Cardiovascular Interventions
JA  - Catheter Cardiovasc Interv
VL  - 95
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405169554
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ccd.28356
DO  - doi:10.1002/ccd.28356
SP  - E30
EP  - E36
KW  - atrial imaging
KW  - iatrogenic complication
KW  - left atrial dissection
KW  - left atrial hematoma
PY  - 2020
AB  - Abstract Objectives Left atrial dissection (LatD) is a rare and heterogeneous condition affecting many cardiovascular areas. The present article, by the means of personal case report illustration and systemic review of different clinical management, is aimed to give to clinicians further knowledge on this controversial topic. Background LatD is an exceedingly rare but potentially fatal complication of cardiac surgery or catheter-based interventional procedures. Most of the cases are iatrogenic and its incidence is expected to grow due to an increase in the number of percutaneous coronary intervention and structural heart disease procedures. The management of this complication is controversial, and it may depend on related etiologies. Methods We have reported our single-case experience and review of the scientific literature, focusing on the decision-making process and the strategical approach by multimodality imaging techniques. Results Our case of LatD with initial hemodynamic instability was surgically treated. Conservative approach is often employed in literature despite the fact that conservative versus surgical approach is debatable, depending on clinical presentation, hemodynamic stability, multimodal imaging findings, and personal experience of the center. Conclusions According to systematic literature review, a watchful-waiting strategy supported by multimodality imaging could be a safe and effective management in stable LatD.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Boston, Sarah E.
AU  - van Stee, Lucinda L.
AU  - Bacon, Nicholas J.
AU  - Szentimrey, David
AU  - Kirby, Barbara M.
AU  - van Nimwegen, Sebastiaan
AU  - Wavreille, Vincent A.
TI  - Outcomes of eight cats with oral neoplasia treated with radical mandibulectomy
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 49
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405169554
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.13341
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.13341
SP  - 222
EP  - 232
PY  - 2020
AB  - Abstract Objective To report outcomes after radical mandibulectomy in cats. Study design Multi-institutional retrospective study. Animals Eight cats were included. Methods Medical records were searched for cats with confirmed oral neoplasia treated with radical mandibulectomy. Data collected included demographics, surgical procedure, histopathological diagnosis, postoperative management, and outcomes. Results Ages ranged from 8 to 17?years. All cats had 75% to 90% of the mandible removed and feeding tubes placed. Seven cats had squamous cell carcinoma, and one cat had a giant cell tumor. Six cats ate on their own postoperatively. Three cats had local recurrence and tumor-related died at 136 and 291?days. Six cats had no recurrence, with survival times of 156, 465, 608, and 1023?days, and two cats were still alive at 316 and 461 days after surgery. The three long-term survivors died of causes unrelated to oral neoplasia. One cat died at 156?days due to aspiration of food material. The overall estimated mean survival time was 712 days. Conclusion After radical mandibulectomy, independent food intake was achieved in 6 of eight cats, and four cats lived longer than one year. Clinical significance: Radical mandibulectomy should be considered for the treatment of extensive oral neoplasia in cats. Successful long-term outcomes are possible with aggressive supportive care perioperatively.
ER  - 
