
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Özdemir, F.N.
AU  - Arat, Z.
AU  - Akcay, A.
AU  - Erdem, A.
AU  - Aǧca, E.
AU  - Sezer, S.
AU  - Haberal, M.
TI  - The effect of hemodialysis duration on 703 hemodialysis patients in our center
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121bp.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121bp.x
SP  - 94
EP  - 95
PY  - 2005
AB  - There are limited data on demographics, long-term follow-up, and iron/rHuEPO requirements of hemodialysis (HD) patients in Turkey. The aim of the study was to analyze the effects of the HD duration, primary illness, blood pressure, and age on serum albumin, CRP, blood pressure, iron/rHuEPO requirements, PTH, and HCV positivity of HD patients. 703 patients (280 women, 423 men, aged 47.8?±?15.5 years) from 4 HD units were included and grouped according to the duration on HD. The demographic, clinical, and biochemical data of the last 3 months for each patient were recorded retrospectively. When the groups were compared, patients with a longer HD duration were younger and percentage of diabetic patients decreased as the duration increased. Serum albumin and CRP levels were similar between the groups. When the groups were compared according to the blood pressure profiles, after the 5th year, a decline in the systolic blood pressures was observed. Diastolic blood pressures were similar across the years. There was no significant difference in need of antihypertensive medicines. Iron requirements showed a fall after the 5th year, and an increase in after the 10th year. There was a decline in the hematocrit levels by the duration on HD but there was no change in rHuEPO requirements over the years. Parathyroid hormone levels and HCV positivity tended to increase across the years. Our results revealed that during the first 10 years, age, etiology (diabetes, hypertension), and blood pressure control seemed to be important factors affecting survival. Whereas, after the 10th year, patients seemed to be more prone to the long-term complications of HD, such as HCV infection, anemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - THRUSFIELD, M. V.
TI  - Recording and manipulating clinical data
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 24
IS  - 11
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.1983.tb00358.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.1983.tb00358.x
SP  - 703
EP  - 717
PY  - 1983
AB  - ABSTRACT Clinical records are required to manage individual patients and are of collective value to epidemiological investigations. Data recording systems vary in design and complexity and these features affect the power of the system to manipulate record components. A system must be tailored to individual requirements; this necessitates a knowledge of data collection principles and currently available techniques.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Oby, Emily
AU  - Janigro, Damir
TI  - The Blood–Brain Barrier and Epilepsy
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 47
IS  - 11
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00817.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00817.x
SP  - 1761
EP  - 1774
KW  - Antiepileptic drugs
KW  - Membrane transport proteins
KW  - Monosaccharide transport proteins
KW  - Epileptogenesis
KW  - Cerebral blood flow
PY  - 2006
AB  - Summary:? During the past several years, there has been increasing interest in the role of the blood?brain barrier (BBB) in epilepsy. Advances in neuroradiology have enhanced our ability to image and study the human cerebrovasculature, and further developments in the research of metabolic deficiencies linked to seizure disorders (e.g., GLUT1 deficiency), neuroinflammation, and multiple drug resistance to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) have amplified the significance of the BBB's relationship to epilepsy. ?Prior to 1986, BBB research in epilepsy focused on three main areas: ultrastructural studies, brain glucose availability and transport, and clinical uses of AEDs. However, contrast-based imaging techniques and medical procedures such as BBB disruption provided a framework that demonstrated that the BBB could be reversibly disrupted by pathologic or iatrogenic manipulations, with important implications in terms of CNS drug delivery to ?multiple drug resistant? brain. This concept of BBB breakdown for therapeutic purposes has also unveiled a previously unrecognized role for BBB failure as a possible etiologic mechanism in epileptogenesis. Finally, a growing body of evidence has shown that inflammatory mechanisms may participate in the pathological changes observed in epileptic brain, with increasing awareness that blood-borne cells or signals may participate in epileptogenesis by virtue of a leaky BBB. In this article we will review the relationships between BBB function and epilepsy. In particular, we will illustrate consensus and divergence between clinical reality and animal studies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Goldberg,             M.T.
AU  - Han, Y.P.
AU  - Shaw, M.C.
AU  - Garner, W.
TI  - 041 Mechanical and Molecular Response of Human Dermal Fibroblasts to TGF-β and TNF-α
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130215ao.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130215ao.x
SP  - A4
EP  - A27
PY  - 2005
AB  - Background:? The cytokine signals that regulate myofibroblast differentiation and the resulting reorganization of matrix are incompletely understood. We studied the response of fibroblasts to mediators known to affect matrix reorganization, TGF-? and TNF-α in a collagen matrix. Further, we sought to determine if any cell phenotype changes resulted in quantifiable alterations in the mechanical performance of the matrix. Methods:? Normal human dermal fibroblasts were cultured in collagen type I lattices for 1 and 5 days in DMEM with .5% FBS and TGF-?(1?ng/ml), TNF-α(10?ng/ml), or combinations TGF-?(1?ng/ml)?+?TNF-α(1,5, and 10?ng/ml). Western blot and immunohistochemistry were used to determine α-SMA expression. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to measure α-SMA mRNA. An indentation mechanical method was used to measure Young?s modulus which represents matrix stiffness. Results:? TGF-? increases α-SMA, while TNF-α alone has no effect on basal α-SMA expression. When TGF-??+?TNF-α were both added, the expression of α-SMA returned to basal levels. Immunohistochemistry showed α-SMA is incorporated into prominent stress fibers only in the TGF-? group. Real-time PCR showed that TNF-α did not affect α-SMA mRNA, while TGF-? increased α-SMA mRNA 19-fold. Combination treatment reduced mRNA level by 16-fold, to 2.7-fold compared to control. Indentation testing showed that, in all treatment groups, lattices after 5 days in culture were stiffer. TNF-α appeared to reduce the stiffness of the lattices on both day 1 and 5 compared to control. Conclusion:? TNF-α decreases TGF-? induction of α-SMA expression at the transcriptional level and decreases lattice stiffness. The cellular responses to cytokines are reflected in both biochemical and mechanical behaviors. Understanding both will be necessary to understand how tissues remodel into functional tissue and scar.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Delgado-Escueta, Antonio V.
AU  - Greenberg, David A.
AU  - Treiman, Lucy
AU  - Liu, Amy
AU  - Sparkes, Robert S.
AU  - Barbetti, Aida
AU  - Park, Min Sik
AU  - Terasaki, Paul I.
TI  - Mapping the Gene for Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 30
IS  - s4
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1157.1989.tb05835.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1157.1989.tb05835.x
SP  - S8
EP  - S18
KW  - Epilepsy
KW  - Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy
KW  - Genetics
KW  - Linkage
KW  - Human leukocyte antigen
PY  - 1989
AB  - Summary: The practice of epileptology at a molecular level, where gene products are identified by gene mapping, will soon be possible for a growing number of epilepsies. Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is the first of such epilepsies to be mapped to a chromosome, namely chromosome 6p21.3. Family studies of 68 JME probands from California revealed 50% of all families reported seizures in first- or second-degree relatives. Twelve percent of all family members other than the proband had epileptic seizures. Eighty percent of symptomatic siblings and 6% of asymptomatic siblings had diffuse 4- to 6-Hz multi-spike-wave complexes. Twelve percent of asymptomatic parents had diffuse, nonspecific slow waves mixed with spikes or sharp waves. JME is tightly linked to the Bf-HLA loci in chromosome 6. No matter what mode of inheritance is assumed, linkage to the clinical manifestations of JME and its associated EEG traits is indicated by lod scores over 3.0, as long as ?EEG affected? but clinically asymptomatic family members are counted as affected during LIPED analysis. Studies are now being done to further localize the JME site. At the same time, further linkage studies should decide if JME is heterogeneous within itself and whether the same JME site in 6p21.3 underlies absence and grand mal epilepsies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mair, T. S.
AU  - Couto, C. G.
TI  - The use of cytotoxic drugs in equine practice
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 18
IS  - 3
SN  - 0957-7734
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3292.2006.tb00436.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3292.2006.tb00436.x
SP  - 149
EP  - 156
KW  - horse
KW  - neoplasia
KW  - cancer
KW  - cytotoxic medicine
KW  - ageing
PY  - 2006
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - WHITE, R. A. S.
AU  - JEFFERIES, A. R.
AU  - FREEDMAN, L. S.
TI  - Clinical staging for oropharyngeal malignancies in the dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 26
IS  - 10
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.1985.tb02184.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.1985.tb02184.x
SP  - 581
EP  - 594
PY  - 1985
AB  - ABSTRACT One hundred dogs bearing malignancies of the oropharyngeal region were examined over a three-year period and prospectively staged using the World Health Organisation TNM Classification of Tumours of Domestic Animals. Primary tumours were characterized by their large size or local infiltration (71 per cent, T3 status) and invasion into adjacent bone (60 per cent, Tb status). Regional lymph node metastasis was less common (17 per cent, N1b, N2b or N3 status) and distant metastasis was an unusual presenting feature (5 per cent, M1 status). The early Stage I and II tumours together accounted for 8 per cent of the total series whilst the more advanced Stage III group were by far the most frequent, representing 84 per cent. The remaining 8 per cent being classified as Stage IV because of extensive regional or distance metastatic deposits. Prognoses by stage showed actuarial survival rates at 12 months of 100 per cent for Stage I, 71 per cent for Stage II, 31 per cent for Stage III with no survivors in the Stage IV group. Survival rates for the major histological types were 44 per cent for the non-tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma, 22 per cent for the tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma and fibrosarcomas, 17 per cent for mastocytomas whilst none of the malignant melanomata survived 12 months.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Alves, A.
AU  - Prada, J.
AU  - Almeida, J. M.
AU  - Pires, I.
AU  - Queiroga, F.
AU  - Platt, S. R.
AU  - Varejão, A. S. P.
TI  - Primary and secondary tumours occurring simultaneously in the brain of a dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 47
IS  - 10
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2006.00066.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2006.00066.x
SP  - 607
EP  - 610
PY  - 2006
AB  - Primary brain tumours of a single histological type and metastatic brain tumours are well described in dogs in the current veterinary literature. However, the concurrent presence of a primary and secondary tumour in the brain of a dog has never, to the authors? knowledge, been previously reported. The clinical and pathological features of a nine-year-old, female boxer with an oligodendroglioma and metastases from a mammary gland adenocarcinoma occurring simultaneously in the brain are described in this case report. Information in the veterinary literature on multiple malignancies affecting the central nervous system is very limited; therefore, a discussion about comparative situations in human medicine has been included.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Griffenhagen, Gregg M
AU  - Rezende, Marlis L
AU  - Gustafson, Daniel L
AU  - Hansen, Ryan J
AU  - Lunghofer, Paul J
AU  - Mama, Khursheed R
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of propofol with or without 2% benzyl alcohol following a single induction dose administered intravenously in cats
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 42
IS  - 5
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12233
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12233
SP  - 472
EP  - 483
KW  - anesthesia
KW  - cat
KW  - propofol
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Objective To compare the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of propofol with or without 2% benzyl alcohol administered intravenously (IV) as a single induction dose in cats. Study design Prospective experimental study. Animals Six healthy adult cats, three female intact, three male castrated, weighing 4.8 ± 1.8 kg. Methods Cats received 8 mg kg?1 IV of propofol (P) or propofol with 2% benzyl alcohol (P28) using a randomized crossover design. Venous blood samples were collected at predetermined time points to 24 hours after drug administration to determine drug plasma concentrations. Physiologic and behavioral variables were also recorded. Propofol and benzyl alcohol concentrations were determined using high pressure liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. Pharmacokinetic parameters were described using a 2-compartment model. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters were analyzed using repeated measures anova (p < 0.05). Results Plasma concentrations of benzyl alcohol were below the lower limits of quantification (LLOQ) at all time points for two of the six cats (33%), and by 30 minutes for the remaining four cats. Propofol pharmacokinetics, with or without 2% benzyl alcohol, were characterized by rapid distribution, a long elimination phase, and a large volume of distribution. No differences were noted between treatments with the exception of clearance from the second compartment (CLD2), which was 23.6 and 38.8 mL kg?1 minute?1 in the P and P28 treatments, respectively. Physiologic and behavioral variables were not different between treatments with the exception of heart rate at 4 hours post administration. Conclusions and clinical relevance The addition of 2% benzyl alcohol as a preservative minimally altered the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of propofol 1% emulsion when administered as a single IV bolus in this group of cats. These data support the cautious use of propofol with 2% benzyl alcohol for induction of anesthesia in healthy cats.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lervik, Andreas
AU  - Haga, Henning A
AU  - Ranheim, Birgit
AU  - Spadavecchia, Claudia
TI  - The influence of a continuous rate infusion of dexmedetomidine on the nociceptive withdrawal reflex and temporal summation during isoflurane anaesthesia in dogs
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 39
IS  - 4
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2012.00713.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2012.00713.x
SP  - 414
EP  - 425
KW  - dexmedetomidine
KW  - dogs
KW  - isoflurane
KW  - NWR
KW  - temporal summation
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Objective? To examine the influence of a low dose dexmedetomidine infusion on the nociceptive withdrawal reflex and temporal summation in dogs during isoflurane anaesthesia. Study design? Prospective experimental blinded cross-over study. Animals? Eight healthy mixed breed dogs, body weight Mean?±?SD 26.5?±?8.4?kg and age 25?± 16 months. Methods? Anaesthesia was induced with propofol and maintained with isoflurane (Fe?ISO 1.3%) delivered in oxygen and air. After stabilization, baseline recordings (time 0) were obtained, then a dexmedetomidine bolus (1??g?kg?1 IV) followed by a continuous rate infusion (1??g?kg?1?hour?1) or saline placebo were administered. At times 10, 30 and 60?minutes after the initial bolus, electrical stimulations of increasing intensity were applied over the lateral plantar digital nerve, and administered both as single and as repeated stimuli. The resulting reflex responses were recorded using electromyography. Data were analysed using a multivariable linear regression model and a Kruskal Wallis test for single stimulation data, and repeated measures anova and paired t-test for repeated stimulation data. Results? The AUC for the stimulus-response curves after single stimulation were similar for both treatments at time 0. At times 10, 30 and 60 the AUCs for the stimulus-response curves were significantly lower with dexmedetomidine treatment than with placebo. Temporal summation was evident in both treatments at times 0, 10, 30 and 60 starting from a stimulation intensity of 10?mA. The magnitude of temporal summation was smaller in dexmedetomidine than in placebo treated dogs at time 10, 30 and 60, but not at time 0. Conclusions? During isoflurane anaesthesia, low dose dexmedetomidine suppresses the nociceptive reflex responses after single and repeated electrical stimulation. Clinical relevance? This experimental study confirms previous reports on its peri-operative efficacy under clinical conditions, and further indicates that dexmedetomidine might reduce the risk of post-operative chronic pain development.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - SEAHORN, T. L.
AU  - FUENTEALBA, I. CARMEN
AU  - ILLANES, O. G.
AU  - STORTS, R. W.
TI  - Congenital encephalomyelopathy in a Quarter Horse
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 23
IS  - 5
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1991.tb03746.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1991.tb03746.x
SP  - 394
EP  - 396
PY  - 1991
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Di Bella, A.
AU  - Maurella, C.
AU  - Cauvin, A.
AU  - Schmidt, J. M.
AU  - Tapia, B. B.
AU  - North, S. M.
TI  - Proteinuria in canine patients with lymphoma
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 54
IS  - 1
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12004.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12004.x
SP  - 28
EP  - 32
PY  - 2013
AB  - Objectives To determine if proteinuria is more common in dogs with lymphoma when compared with healthy dogs and to assess the severity and frequency of proteinuria in dogs with lymphoma. Methods Determination of urine protein:creatinine ratio in 32 dogs with lymphoma compared with 30 healthy dogs. Results Canine patients with lymphoma are more likely to be proteinuric compared with healthy dogs. Proteinuria is common in dogs with lymphoma, although in most cases it is not severe. The presence of proteinuria is not linked with the stage or substage of lymphoma. Clinical Significance Mild proteinuria is a common finding in dogs with lymphoma. The clinical impact of the proteinuria is probably low.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bak, Jinoh
AU  - Hwang, Jieun
AU  - Park, Suhyun
AU  - Kang, Hyun Wook
TI  - Integration of optical applicator with balloon catheter for photothermal treatment of biliary stricture
JO  - Lasers in Surgery and Medicine
JA  - Lasers Surg. Med.
VL  - 49
IS  - 8
SN  - 0196-8092
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/lsm.22688
DO  - doi:10.1002/lsm.22688
SP  - 781
EP  - 786
KW  - balloon catheter
KW  - bile duct
KW  - optical diffuser
KW  - photothermal treatment
KW  - tissue stricture
PY  - 2017
AB  - Background and Objective Bile duct stricture is an uncommon disease in gastroenterology resulting from postoperative trauma. In spite of non-surgical treatments, clinical outcomes for the biliary strictures still encounter high restenosis and stent migration. The objective of the current study was to investigate the feasible application of a balloon catheter-integrated diffing applicator to thermally treat the bile duct stricture. Materials and Methods 400-?m optical fibers were micro-machined and then integrated with an inflatable balloon catheter. The fabricated applicator was tested on porcine bile ducts with 20-W 980 nm laser light for 60 s, and a thermal camera was used to measure thermal response of the tissue. Due to mechanical pressure, the inflated balloon was able to expand the tissue lumen up to 6 mm in diameter. Results Compared to control, the inner area of the treated tissue was increased by four fold (i.e., 2.74±0.05 mm2 for treated vs. 0.73±0.14 mm2 for control) during the balloon catheter-assisted laser irradiation. The laser-induced tissue temperature reached up to 80.1±6.4 °C (thermal gradient = 1.2 °C/s). A thin layer of coagulation necrosis (0.5±0.1 mm) consistently formed around the lumen. Conclusion The proposed balloon catheter-integrated diffusing applicator can be a feasible minimally invasive device to photothermally treat the obstructive bile ducts. Lasers Surg. Med. 49:781?786, 2017. ? 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Nursing/Psychosocial/Health Services
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
SP  - 14
EP  - 23
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Melanie A. Adams, 1 Bradley V. Vaughn, and 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh ( 1 Dept. of Neurology, Univ. of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Seizure control in epilepsy has been thought to be the primary goal for both patients and clinicians. However, practitioners may not be fully aware of what goals epilepsy patients truly wish to attain. We surveyed epilepsy patients in our clinic and asked them to list their primary goal for treatment of their epilepsy. We also considered how treatment regimen and seizure frequency may influence a patient's goals. Methods: We surveyed 48 patients in our Epilepsy Clinic at the University of North Carolina and asked them to list their primary goal for their epilepsy treatment, the number of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) they used, and their seizure frequency. Results: Forty-eight patients with a mean age of 41.3 years completed the survey and 32 were female. The subjects averaged taking 2 antiepileptic drugs and had an average seizure frequency of one seizure per month. We grouped the patients by number of AEDs used and seizure frequency. We found that patients who were using two or more antiepileptic drugs were more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 19% of patients taking one AED listed seizure control as their primary goal, but 75% of patients taking two AEDs listed seizure control as their goal and 93% of patients taking three AEDs listed seizure control as their goal. Additionally, patients that had a higher seizure frequency were also more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. When looking at seizure frequency, 69% of patients who had more frequent seizures (seizures occurring at least once per month) listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. All of the patients (n = 4) who had more than one seizure per week, but less than one seizure per day, listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 40% of patients who had been seizure-free for one year or longer listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. Conclusions: In our study we found that most of our epilepsy patients listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. However, we found that patients who were taking more antiepileptic medications and had a higher seizure frequency were most likely to list seizure control as their primary goal. This may indicate that patients are willing to use more than one AED for seizure control despite the risk of an increase in side effects from the combination of medications. Additionally, we found that patients who were using one AED and had fewer seizures were least likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. This highlights the importance of communication between patients who have seizures and the practitioners who treat them to establish a treatment plan that can insure compliance from the patient, especially if the patient has refractory seizures. 1 Marlene Blackman, 1,2 Elaine Wirrell, and 1,2 Lorie Hamiwka ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy have greater behavior problems than healthy controls. Both intractability and mental handicap predict greater risk. Methods: Cohort study of 58 children aged 4?17 years with epilepsy attending a tertiary care pediatric neurology clinic. Parent-completed Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) subscores were compared between children with and without refractory epilepsy (defined as failure of >2 AEDs and seizures ≥ q3monthly over the past year) and with and without mental handicap using the Mann-Whitney U test. Results: 58 children were surveyed, 21 with refractory epilepsy (4 normal cognition, 17 mental handicap) and 37 with non-refractory epilepsy (22 normal cognition, 15 mental handicap). Groups did not differ significantly with respect to age or gender. Those with refractory epilepsy scored significantly higher (more abnormal) on the Social Problems (p < 0.05) and Attention Problems (p < 0.02) subscales of the CBCL. Those with mental handicap scored significantly higher on the Withdrawn (p < 0.001), Social Problems (p < 0.00001), Thought Problems (p < 0.00005), Attention Problems (p < 0.00001) and Aggressive Behavior (p < 0.02) subscales. Conclusions: While children with refractory epilepsy have greater behavior problems as indicated by the Social Problems and Attention Problems subscales, co-morbid cognitive impairment appears to be even more predictive of poor behavioral outcome in children with epilepsy. 1 Janice M. Buelow, 1 Joan K. Austin, 1 Angela M. McNelis, and 1 Cheryl P. Shore ( 1 School of Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Parents of children with epilepsy and Intellectual Disability (ID) report that their children have significant behavior problems. Past research shows that the level of family stress and child behavior problems are related, however the nature of this relationship is not well understood. In order to better understand the complex interaction of family stress and child behavior problems, this study describes the behavior problems of children with epilepsy and ID and parental perception of their child's behavior problems. Methods: Qualitative naturalistic inquiry was used to describe naturally occurring phenomena. Participants were 20 parents of children (9?16 years, mean = 12.2) who had at least two seizures a year or were on anti-epilepsy medications, and had an IQ between 55 and 75. Open-ended interviews were conducted with parents to explore the problems they experienced while raising their children. Interviews lasted about 1 hour, were tape recorded and transcribed verbatim. Each interview was analyzed for within-case themes. After interviews were analyzed individually, themes were compared across cases to identify commonalities. Two researchers reviewed each interview and agreement was reached on themes Results: The most common problem behaviors were: (1) attention problems, (2) inappropriate behavior in public including temper tantrums, (3) poor socialization skills including inability to make friends, and (4) violent behavior including injuries to self and others. Parent themes regarding behavior were (1) I recognize and can manage my child's behavior, (2) my child's behaviors are just part of life, (3) my child's behaviors problems are because of others' actions and (4) my child's behavior problems are a result of seizures. Only one family out of 20 stated that there were no behavior problems. Conclusions: This study describes specific behavior problems that children experience and parental perceptions regarding the behavior. Child behaviors ranged from attention problems to violent behavior and family themes ranged from recognition of the problem to blaming the problem on outside events. Future studies should address the underlying causes of the behavior problems in these children with the goal of intervening to reduce or eliminate these problem areas. In addition, clinicians should be assessing for behavior problems in children with epilepsy and low IQ. (Supported by NR 04536 and NR 005035v 1 Kami D. Clark, 1 Steve S. Chung, and 1 David M. Treiman ( 1 Epilepsy Program, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: The number of medication and treatment options for the 2.3 million epilepsy patients in the U.S. in increasing. Understanding treatment regimens including medications and diagnostic testing is crucial for epilepsy patients. In addition, accurately conveying information concerning adverse effects of antiepileptic medications is critical. A lack of understanding or education may adversely effect medication compliance and treatment efficacy. Returning the phone calls of patients with questions is an important but often a time-consuming and costly task for healthcare providers. We analyzed patient care related phone calls to try to identify ways in which patient education could be improved. Therefore, reducing the frequency of phone queries from patients. Methods: We evaluated all patient care related phone calls received by the epilepsy nurse practitioner in the Barrow Neurological Institute Adult Epilepsy Clinic from December 2004 through April 2005. A total of 209 calls were evaluated. These calls excluded patients calling to request medication refills or appointments, and any call not placed by an epilepsy patient or his/her caregiver. Results: The 209 patient phone calls were divided into eight categories. Medication related questions accounted for 34.4% (72) of all calls. Reporting breakthrough seizures, 32.5% (68), queries regarding lab/test results, 8.6% (18), work/disability issues, 8.2% (17), other health related questions, 8.2% (17), OTC medication questions, 4.8% (10), other epilepsy treatment options, 1.9% (4), and 1.4% (3) called the clinic to report doing well. We reviewed common questions of epilepsy patients who call the epilepsy clinic so that we may redirect education efforts. The most common call received was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects, new onset of symptoms, and medication titration and weaning schedules. Although, initial in-office medication education and written titration schedules were provided for all these patients, almost thirty five percent required additional education or clarification via time consuming telephone conversations. Conclusions: The most common call received to our clinic was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects (44) and verifying medication titration and weaning schedules (28). In order to optimize patient care and patient empowerment, our study indicates that the development of clearly written medication side effect profiles and medication titration and weaning schedules may improve patient care and reduce incoming phone calls. 1 B. M. Corbett, 1 S. L. Hanson, 1 N. F. Lendzion, 1 T. B. Pipe, 1 J. J. Bortz, 1 J. F. Drazkowski, 1 J. I. Sirven, 1 L. C. Helepololei, 1 J. M. Muccioli, 1 L. M. Tapsell, 1 L. M. Autry, 1 D. L. Shulman, 1 J. K. Gerke, and 1 R. S. Zimmerman ( 1 5 West, Mayo Clinic Hospital, Scottsdale, AZ ) Rationale: At MCH, a select number of patients with medically intractable seizures undergo diagnostic admissions involving subtraction ictal SPECT co-registered to MRI (SISCOM). The timeliness and efficiency of radioisotope injection is crucial to the potential identification of epileptogenic foci. The optimum results yielded by this procedure requires timing of radioisotope injection to be as close to seizure onset as possible. However, little is known about factors that facilitate or hinder the efficiency of ictal injections. Our pilot study is an important first step in gathering objective data regarding facilitators and barriers to efficient radioisotope administration. Methods: A focus-group questionnaire was distributed to the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit (EMU) nursing staff in order to identify key factors related to injection response time. From this data, an item checklist was derived and subsequently used to evaluate a retrospective series of 16 consecutive radioisotope injections. Eight of these cases fell within 60 seconds of seizure onset. Eight injections occurred after the 60-second cutoff. Videotapes of each injection were independently reviewed by raters blind to response time. Results: Results revealed timing efficiency was significantly related to a higher number of staff assisting in the procedure (?2= 11.20, p = .01). Although not statistically significant, a trend regarding an inverse relationship between gloving time and injection efficiency was evidenced. Other variables, including patient responsiveness, amount of environmental clutter, and the number of SISCOM patients on the unit were not related to time between seizure onset and injection. Conclusions: This pilot study is part of a broader investigation that includes prospective data derived from a larger group of study patients. Initial results identified a positive relationship between the number of staff available to assist in the procedure and the timing efficiency of SISCOM injections. These data may reflect several factors, including 1) efficacy of teamwork required to stabilize and prepare patients for injection and 2) increased consensus regarding the appropriateness of injection. The data also suggests gloving in advance, rather than at the time of seizure onset, facilitates speed of injection. Finally, these data may have important implications in the evaluation of acuity and staffing levels for patients undergoing ictal SPECT studies. 1 Sandra M. Cushner-Weinstein, 1 Leslie Bethke-Pope, 2 Jay Salpekar, 1 William D. Gaillard, 1 Phillip L. Pearl, 1 Marian Kolodgie, 1 Audrey Scully, 1 Joan Conry, and 1 Steve L. Weinstein ( 1 Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, George Washington University, Washington, DC ; and 2 Psychiatry, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Camps developed for children with epilepsy were questioned to evaluate change in design, goals, and programs from the years 2001 to 2005. The expectation was to find an increase in condition specific camps, common identified goals, and the number of individuals with epilepsy in leadership roles. Camps were compared for similarities and differences. Methods: In 2001, thirty-one camps for children with epilepsy received telephone interviews comprised of thirty-eight questions. In 2005, twenty-five camps for children with epilepsy received a questionnaire by mail or e-mail and phone contact for clarification. The thirty-eight questions in 2001 were reduced to twenty questions in 2005, based on the original questions and answers. Included in the questions were camp designs, goals, composition and age of campers, schedules, opportunities for camper advancement, return rates, percentage of staff with epilepsy, co-morbidities, and staff to camper ratio. Results: From 2001 to 2005, three primary designs of camps continue to exist with a shift towards condition specific camps. The designs include camps for children diagnosed with epilepsy, for family member(s) and campers with epilepsy, and integrated or mainstream camps. Over four years, the number of camps increased serving children with epilepsy only, 54% (2001) to 60% (2005), and serving children with epilepsy and family members, 3% (2001) to 24% (2005). Also a decrease in the number of integrated camps from 19% (2001) to 16% (2005) was found. Other findings include in 2001, 50% of the camps did not have counselors with epilepsy while in 2005, 65% did; however, 20% had less than 10% of counselors with epilepsy. Only 52% of camps in 2001 offered opportunities for campers to advance to leadership roles (counselors in training or assistants) and there was an increase (64%) in 2005. Also in 2005, 65% of the camps selected socialization, independence, and self-esteem as their top three camper benefits and goals, while in 2001, less than 35% of the camps identified socialization and self-esteem as benefits or goals. Conclusions: The percentage of condition specific camps serving children with epilepsy and epilepsy and family member(s) increased over four years, as did the opportunities for campers to advance in leadership roles. It is important for camps serving children with epilepsy to question their design and implement programs to support and promote goals. 1 Kirsti J. Dahlen, 1 Torunn Erichsen, and 1 Siv Skarstein ( 1 Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; and Administration, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway ) Rationale: Over the past decades a change in paradigm has taken place from seeing the patient as a passive receiver of treatment, till todays focus on empowerment and individual rehabilitation prosesses. A multidiciplinary educational programme for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation was established at the National Centre for Epilepsy in Norway in 2003. This educational programme focuses on two main subjects: Evidence based treatment and care within epilepsy and the rehabilitation prosess, including multidiciplinary communication and cooperation, and patient autonomy. The education takes place at the epilepsy centre and the syllabus is developed in close collaboration with a local university college. The students meet five sessions per year, each session lasting four days. The programme includes lectures, tutoring and group work. In this study, we have assessed the satisfaction among the students who completed the programme in 2003/4 and 2004/5. Methods: All 31 students participating in course l (2003/4) and course 2 (2004/5) answered a standardized evaluation questionnaire. The questionnaire contained 7 questiones with five alternative answers, scaled from 1 (bad) to 5 (very good). 18 of the students attending the educational programme were registered nurses and 13 were registered nurses for the mentally subnormal. 14 were fulltime employed within community based service and 17 fulltime employed within specialist service. Results: 31 students have completed the courses so far. Evaluation of satisfaction with the programme in each session shows that all 31 students scored from good to very good. Evaluation according to relevance of the main learning objects for the education and the use of internal lectures from the centre, showed similar results. Student satisfaction regarding lectures and group work within epileptology showed a higher score than within rehabilitation. Conclusions: A multidiciplinary education for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation seems to be of importance for the participants. The syllabus is evaluated to be relevant for the purpose of this education. A pedagogical challenge is how to merge the two main objects. 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 1,2 Priscila Barioni Salgado, 1,2 Ana Lúcia Andrade Noronha, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, UNICAMP, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Psychology, ASPE, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The purpose of this study is to estimate the magnitude of epilepsy stigma in four cities in the southern region of Brazil, a limited-resource country. Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional population-based study in Campinas, a large city with ?1 million inhabitants in the southeast of Brazil. We applied Stigma Scale of Epilepsy (SSE) in 1.850 people from all the regions within the city following a sampling selection methodology (95% confidence interval and error of 2.3%). In order to assess whether there is a regional difference in degree of epilepsy stigma, we applied SSE in a random selected people on the streets during the II National Week of Epilepsy in other three cities; Vila Velha, Curitiba, and S?o Paulo. SSE consists of 10 questions that provide a total score ranging from 0 (no stigma) to 100 (highest level of stigma). SSE was developed and validated by our group and showed high internal consistency (α Cronbach's coefficient = 0.81). Sample size required for assessing group differences using SSE is 47 subjects (r = 0,40; alpha = 0,05 [IC = 95%]; beta = 0,20). Results: The mean age of the subjects (53% women) was 39 years (range from 12 to 90 years) in Campinas. The mean SSE score was 42 (range from 3 to 98; SD = 14). Women had SSE score higher (43) than men (40) (t-test [1848]= 5.42; p < 0.001). In regard to religion, spiritism had lowest level of SSE score (35); (ANOVA [4,1845]= 4.4; p = 0.0015, Tukey's: spiritism<catholic = evangelic = others = no religion). Level of education showed inverse relation to SSE scores, illiterate people had higher level of SSE score (45) than people with university degree (37) (ANOVA [4,1845]= 16.3; p < 0.0001). In other three cities, it was applied 209 questionnaires (Curitiba = 83 subjects, S?o Paulo = 47, Vila Velha = 79). The mean SSE (95% Confidence interval) score were different among four cities: Campinas = 42 (95%CI = 41?43); Vila Velha = 42 (95%CI = 39?45); Curitiba = 49 (95%CI = 46?52); S?o Paulo = 53 (95%CI = 48?58). Conclusions: Our study showed that there are differences in the perception of stigma in different societies in the same country. The magnitude of stigma is different within segment a society, highlighting that sociocultural factors, such as gender, religion, and level of education are important predictors of stigma. Mass media campaign should target these social segments to fight prejudice and improve social acceptance of people with epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Patricia Fischer ( 1 Department of Pharmacy Practice, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Developing a seizure emergency treatment plan enables efficient management of seizure emergencies and decreases the potential for seizure-related complications. Individualized treatment plans provide for more patient and caregiver control in seizure emergencies, minimize the effect seizures have in the workplace or at school, and may reduce the need for access to emergency medical care. Recent emphasis has been placed on seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children; however, adults who experience seizures would also benefit from a predetermined course of action for seizure emergencies. Methods: A comprehensive review of the components associated with seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children, along with a literature review and clinical experience with adult patients with seizures, revealed that a seizure emergency treatment plan for adults would be a practical and comprehensive adjunctive treatment approach. The unique needs of adult patients were taken into consideration to develop a protocol for designing seizure emergency treatment plans for an adult population. Results: A 5-phase protocol to develop seizure emergency treatment plans for adult patients with seizures was created. In Phase I, patients who would benefit from plan development are identified; patients who require emergency medical transport for prolonged seizure episodes, patients whose antiepileptic drug regimen is being changed, and patients who are severely affected by their seizure activity are candidates. In Phase II, key plan components are identified, including seizure presentation and history, recognition of seizure emergencies, seizure first aid, and caretaker designation. If emergency seizure treatment includes seizure rescue medication, diazepam rectal gel (Diastat?) information (eg, administration instructions, time to stop seizures, instructions regarding repeat dosing, patient care) is delineated. In Phase III, specific steps needed to implement the plan are addressed, including caregiver education, use in patient-specific environments (eg, at work, while traveling), and removal of perceived obstacles to success. In Phase IV, efficacy, safety, ease of implementation, and patient and caregiver satisfaction with the plan are evaluated. Phase V allows for plan modification based on the evaluation as well as changes in seizure presentation and patient physical characteristics. Conclusions: Adult patients who experience seizures have unique treatment needs that warrant the development and implementation of individualized seizure emergency treatment plans for optimal management of seizure activity. (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Laura H. Goldstein, 2 Leah Holland, 2 Helen Soteriou, and 2 John D.C. Mellers ( 1 Psychology, PO 77, Institute of Psychiatry, London, United Kingdom ; and 2 Neuropsychiatry, Maudsley Hospital, London, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Whilst psychosocial well-being in people with epilepsy is thought to be related to styles of coping, less is known about the relationship between the way people with epilepsy perceive their illness (i.e. their illness representations) and their psychological state. Similarly, little is known about the extent to which illness representations are related to coping strategies when predicting outcome measures such as mood. Therefore, this study set out to extend what is known about predictors of anxiety and depression symptoms in adults with chronic epilepsy. Methods: Forty-three adults with chronic epilepsy attending out-patient hospital clinics completed the Illness Perception Questionnaire, the Ways of Coping Scale and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Recent seizure frequency was noted, as were patients' seizure types and age at onset of their epilepsy. Results: Whilst epilepsy variables (seizure frequency, age at seizure onset and number of seizure types) were not significantly related to mood, having also adjusted for gender within multiple regression analyses, an increased use of escape-avoidance and a decreased use of distancing as coping strategies best predicted patients' anxiety scores. In addition to the use of escape-avoidant coping, depression scores were also best predicted by the use of self-controlling coping strategies. After accounting for coping styles, anxiety scores were independently predicted by Illness Identity scores (i.e. the number of symptoms that patients associated with their seizures); this indicated that coping was not simply mediating the impact of illness representations on patients' mood. In contrast, no measure of illness representations independently predicted depression scores. Conclusions: Our results highlight the potential relevance of epilepsy patients' cognitive representations of their illness (and in particular patients' beliefs concerning Illness Identity), as well as their coping styles in determining their psychological well-being. Such factors may also be of importance when studying aspects of their health-related behaviour. 1 Andres M. Kanner, 1 Joanne Wuu, 2 Bruce Hermann, 3 Kimford Meador, 4 Frank Gilliam, and 5 John Barry ( 1 Neurological Sciences, Rush Medical College, Chicago, IL ; 2 Neurology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison, WI ; 3 Neurology, University of Florida School of Medicine, Gainsville, FL ; 4 Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 5 Psychiatry, Stanford Univesrity School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA ) Rationale: In patients with epilepsy (PWE) up to 50% of depressive episodes are atypical as they fail to meet any of the diagnostic criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV). Their semiology tends to be similar to dysthymic disorders and can therefore be referred as Dysthymic-like Disorders of Epilepsy (DLDE). The purpose of this study was to identify the most frequent symptoms of DLDE that could be used in the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. Methods: First phase: Sample A: 205 consecutive PWE from five outpatient epilepsy clinics underwent structured psychiatric interviews with two validated instruments used to identify Axis I diagnoses, according to the DSM-IV criteria (the Structured Clinical Interview for Axis I DSM-IV Disorders [SCID] and the Minin International Neuropsychiatric Inventory) and completed a 46 item instrument, the Mood and Anxiety Symptoms in Epilepsy (MASE), integrated by symptoms of depression (n = 16), anxiety (n = 11), irritability (n = 9), socialization difficulties (n = 5), increased energy (n = 3) and physical symptoms (n = 2). Each item inquires on the presence of a symptom for the last two weeks and is rated on a 4 Lickert Scale (1 [not at all] to 4 [all the time]) and was completed twice, two weeks apart. The MASE has a high internal consistency with a Chronbach alpha of 0.96. Among the 205 patients, 52 failed to meet any diagnostic criteria on the SCID and MINI but had a mean of 17.7 ± 7 positive symptoms (rated as 3 [some of the time] or 4 [all of the time]) on the MASE. Thirteen symptoms were identified by more than 50% of these patients. Second phase: The presence of these 13 symptoms was investigated in a second sample, of 159 PWE and a DLDE (Sample B) who underwent an evaluation with the same psychiatric instruments. Results: Among the 13 symptoms identified in > 50% of sample A patients (see below), 11 were identified in > 50% of sample B patients. These included: feel like crying (52%), disappointed (70%), moody (75%), worried (69%), tense (68%), get impatient easily (72%), agitated (55%), frustrated (65%), irritable and cranky (65%), prefer to be alone (62%), and tired (74%). Two symptoms identified in more than 50% in sample A but not in sample B included: angry and racing thoughts. Conclusions: DLDE is a pleomorphic mood disorder with symptoms of depression, anxiety and irritability. These 11 items are being evaluated for the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. (Supported by Glaxo-Smith-Kline.) 1,2 Ana Lucia Andrade Noronha, 2 Moacir Alves Borges, 2 Lucia Neves Marques, 4 Dirce Trevisan Zanetta, 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 5 Hanneke De Boer, 6 Javier Espindola, 6 Claudio Miranda, 7 Josemir W. Sander, 8 Leonid Prilipko, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, Faculty of Medicine - UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 2 EDUCATION, ASPE, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 3 Neurology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 4 Epidemiology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 5 Secretariat, Global Campaign Against Epilepsy ; 6 Pan-American Health Organization ; 7 Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom ; and 8 World Health Organization, Switzerland ) Rationale: The worldwide prevalence of epilepsy has been estimated to be around 10/1,000; however, the access to treatment is quite variable. Many people go untreated, particularly in resource poor countries, which may add to the cumulative prevalence of epilepsy in these countries. This study had an objective to estimate the prevalence of epilepsy and the proportion of people not receiving adequate treatment in different socio-economic classes in Brazil, a resource poor country. Methods: We conducted a door-to-door community survey to assess the prevalence and treatment gap of epilepsy (corrected for socio-economic status) in three areas of two cities (Campinas and S?o José do Rio Preto[SJRP]) in the southeast of Brazil. The total population studied in these three areas was 96,300 people. We applied a validated epidemiological questionnaire with sensitivity 95.8% and specificity 97.8% for epilepsy screening, and a neurologist further ascertained the positive cases. We applied a validated questionnaire based on household possessions inventory for socio-economic classification that ranges from Class A (highest) to E (lowest). We defined adequate epilepsy treatment as regular use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) at standard dosage. Results: The cumulative prevalence was 9.1/1,000 people. The estimated prevalence of active epilepsy was 5.3/1,000 people. The prevalence of active epilepsy was higher in the more deprived social classes in Campinas (Class D+E = 8.1/1,000 [95%CI = 4.4?11.9] vs. Class A = 1.6/1,000 [0.4?2.9]) and in SJRP (Class D+E = 7.3/1,000 [5.7?8.9] vs. Class B = 3.1/1,000 [1.5?4.7]). Thirty-seven percent of patients with active epilepsy had inadequate treatment, including 19% who were not on any medication; the figures were similar in the different socio-economic groups. Conclusions: The prevalence of epilepsy in Brazil is similar to other resource-poor countries, and the treatment gap is high. We studied the differences in the social classes for prevalence and treatment gap, and the poorer classes had higher prevalence than the richest ones, while treatment gap is similar. Commitment of the health system towards improvement of the quality of health management for people with epilepsy and consistent and regular AED supply is needed. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Roy C. Martin, 1 Russell H. Fushee, 1 Edward Faught, 1 Robert C. Knowlton, and 1 Laura K. Vogtle ( 1 Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: Driving restrictions play a central role in the quality of life in patients with epilepsy (PWE). Neurologists as well as other physician groups bear considerable responsibility for decisions about driving privileges in PWE. However, little is known about how neurologist's attitudes compare to other physician groups. The purpose of this survey was to compare practices and beliefs across physician subspecialties that treat PWE. Methods: A sample of 209 physicians (Neurologists = 56; non-neurologists (NN) = Family Practice and Internal Medicine physicians = 133 and Other/unspecified = 20) completed a 28-item survey related to driving issues and epilepsy. Surveys were completed through fax technology that met IRB approval. A random geographic sampling of 1400 physicians, obtained through a commercial provider, were faxed the survey. A 19% response rate was achieved. Some neurologists completed the survey during a regional epilepsy conference (21 of 48 conference attendees). Results: All practitioners treated PWE and nearly 100% of those surveyed felt driving should be allowed with seizure control. Both groups felt that 6 months seizure-free was an appropriate limit for reinstatement of driving privileges. NNs were more likely to oppose allowing people with uncontrolled seizures to drive (99% vs. 92%; p < .01). NNs were more likely to oppose people with uncontrolled seizures having driver's licenses when the seizures did not result in the loss of consciousness (85% vs. 61%; p < .001), when seizures occurred nocturnally (72% vs. 45%; p < .001), and more likely to agree that states should set a minimum time for PWE to be seizure free before allowing a driver's license (96% vs. 80%; p < .005). NNs were more likely to support mandatory reporting of patient seizure information to state motor vehicle departments (90% vs. 36%; p < .001). Neurologists were more likely to have had PWE report an automobile accident due to a seizure, (72% vs. 33%; p < .001), more likely to have suspected that PWEs had an unreported automobile accident due to a seizure (60% vs. 39%; p < .01), and to have had PWE give justifications for having to drive (75% vs. 58%; p < .05). Conclusions: Neurologists and NNs expressed several similar opinions regarding the importance of physician assistance in evaluating driving issues in PWE and the need for driving restrictions under certain circumstances. However, they differed in terms of specific areas including mandatory reporting and obtaining a drivers license under certain conditions. Although neurologists have had more patients involved in automobile accidents, NNs were generally more restrictive in their support for driving by PWE. This survey highlights the need for continued epilepsy-specific education outreach efforts directed at the non-neurology medical community. (Supported by the Special Interest Project from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention awarded through the UAB Center for Health Promotion.) 1 Louise Mc Quaid, 1 Colin Doherty, 1 Tony Kenny, 1 Norman Delanty, and 1 Mary Fitzsimons ( 1 Epilepsy Programme, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland ) Rationale: Electronic health (eHealth) services have the potential to enhance epilepsy care by improving integration of health services. Electronic patient records (EPR) provide basic infrastructure for eHealth services. An EPR supports pre-service, point-of-service and after-service enhancements for all stakeholders ? patients and their carers, clinicians, health researchers and healthcare managers. EPR's facilitate the continuity of patient care both within and across healthcare organisation boundaries as simultaneous and/or remote access by multiple users is possible. Data protection and security is enhanced with an audit trail of all accesses to the record which is role-based and limited to authorised and authenticated users. An EPR supports health service monitoring, planning, and health research as it provides ready access to large volumes of integrated, harmonised and consistent patient data. While the potential benefits of EPR's are clear, their design, development and implementation represent a socio-technical challenge. The epilepsy programme at Beaumont Hospital aims to design, develop and implement a standards based secure EPR to support epilepsy clinical services and research activities. Methods: System design involved a qualitative study to determine user and domain requirements, data protection, security and training requirements, and to inform software engineers. Study subjects included potential users of the EPR ? epileptologists, NCHDs, epilepsy nurses and the epilepsy clinic administrator. Data collection Multi-stage interviews following a Delphi technique were conducted with potential users; ethnographic fieldwork was conducted to observe users in the environment where the EPR will be used. Results: Data collected were used to establish the granularity of field requirements for the EPR; process-mapping was conducted to illustrate the workflows that the EPR would support; a set of use-cases, or sequence of transactions, required for effective interaction between users and the EPR was determined The technical development of the EPR is based on international healthcare standards. It has two components, one which manages generic patient information and one that manages epilepsy specific information. The system architecture can therefore be applied to develop EPRs for the management of other diseases. Conclusions: The epilepsy EPR development is at an advanced stage. 16 of 30 use cases are complete. User acceptance testing commenced in April 2005 and we expect roll-out of phase 1 to the epilepsy out-patient service at Beaumont Hospital in Summer 2005. In this presentation we will demonstrate our experience with the project to date and the first phase EPR user interfaces. Building on this infrastructure we aim to further enhance the care of epilepsy patients by providing remote access to the EPR to healthcare professionals in other settings and to authorised patients. (Supported by the Irish Health Research Board.) 1 Mary T. McCole, 2 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 2 John O. Elliott ( 1 Critical Care Department, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Individuals with epilepsy always seek to know more about their condition. Parents of children with epilepsy and young people with epilepsy want to know if their condition is likely to remit or worsen. Young adults eventually become concerned about the possible hereditary impact epilepsy may have upon future offspring. In this study an individual with epilepsy, without training in genetics or medical research, endeavored to identify all family members with epilepsy. Methods: The index subject, an American female of Irish Catholic descent, identified herself. She was aware that epilepsy ran in her family. She subsequently researched the family history of epilepsy by interviewing living relatives. The fact that epilepsy occurred in multiple generations was found when the subject began exploring her family history. The index subject trained herself in genealogical research by following the recommendations of others who had done the same, as well as reviewing multiple records relevant to her family tree. Oral histories provided most of the information. All research was done in the US. Results: Genealogic research identified 5 generations with epilepsy in this family. Epilepsy could be traced back to the index subject's paternal grandparents (generation 1 G1). Epilepsy was clearly traced to the paternal grandfather's maternal family, although the grandmother seemed to have more knowledge than expected for seizure disorders. Grandparents were from the same county in Ireland but not cconsanguineous. They may have been denied immigration to the US by disclosing an illness such as epilepsy; however, neither were never known to have seizures. In the 2nd generation (G2) 1of 8 and 7 of 26 in generation 3 (G3) had seizures. All individuals but one in G2 married subjects of Irish heritage. All G3 subjects married non-Irish. In G4, 1of 45 had seizures. Of 9 G5 subjects, none have yet to develop seizures. While absence seizures were reported, the primary seizure type is tonic-clonic, with typical onset at age 8 and no onset later than 15. Epilepsy is mild; some individuals outgrew epilepsy. This research also identified three 2nd cousins; one each for G2, G3  however, one child was not able to go to school because of his condition. Two adults were currently unemployed because of their uncontrolled seizures. Results: The verbatim transcriptions were treated as a database. Data were analyzed by two investigators to identify themes. Each investigator independently identified the themes and listed the statements that supported that theme. The investigators then met to discuss each theme and supporting statements and 100% agreement was reached. Four themes with subthemes evolved from the parent data: Difficulties/Struggles/Problems (Navigating the health care system, Being an advocate, Trajectory of disorder and what to expect from health care professionals, Family role changes); Helpful at the beginning (Time to process, Access to doctors and nurses); Helpful now (Information: building on existing knowledge, Support); and Fears, Needs and Concerns (Interference with growth and development, Prognosis, Unpredictability/uncertainty). Two themes evolved from the child data: Talking at my level and Feeling different than others. Conclusions: Findings from this study provide direction for health care professionals working with children and their families. It is evident that much attention needs to be directed to assessing informational and emotional support needs during the diagnostic process. It appears equally important that ongoing assessment is necessary as chidlren and parents have continuing needs beyond the initial encounter. Future research is needed to develop educational interventions that address these concerns and needs for both children and their parents. (Supported by Center for Enhancing Quality of Life in Chronic Illness, Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis, IN, 46202.) 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Sally L. Hanson, 1 Chris D. Tollefson, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Joseph I. Sirven, 1 Michael C. Roarke, and 1 Deborah L. Shulman ( 1 Neurology/Nuclear Radiology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Many medical centers with epilepsy monitoring units (EMU), are performing ictal brain scintigraphy (SPECT). In order to produce accurate SPECT images, the injection of radiopharmaceutical (tracer) must occur during the seizure. After the onset of a seizure, the preferred maximum amount of time allowed for injecting the isotope is 90 seconds with less than 30 seconds being optimal. The medical personnel in closest proximity to the patient during seizure onset is the registered nurse (RN). Injection of the radioactive tracer by the RN may be the best way to ensure an optimally timed ictal injection. State radiation regulatory agencies are often reluctant to grant permission to perform these injections to allied health personnel outside of the Nuclear Medicine department. We will describe our RN safety education program and competency assessment program at Mayo Clinic Arizona (MCA). Methods: The Arizona Radiation Regulatory Agency (ARRA) controls the use of all radiopharmaceuticals. MCA has a broad scope radioactive material license from the ARRA. ARRA granted approval to deliver the injection of radiopharmaceuticals for this procedure, provided that an education module and competency assessment were developed for the RNs at MCA working in the EMU. Certified Nuclear Medicine Technologists (CNMTs) and the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) provided initial education (January 2003) for these RNs. Advisory opinions posted by the Arizona State Board of Nursing had previously established that RNs were able to inject IV contrast medium for diagnostic studies such as computed tomography. Results: A total of 15 RNs were present for the initial training which involved viewing a radiation safety video, reading and verbalizing understanding of the unit specific ictal radiopharmaceutical injection policy. A performance criteria sheet was completed as each RN demonstrated the correct performance of these injections. The initial class was approximately one hour. All 26 EMU RNs completed the same education requirements described above. All RNs (100%) met the competency requirement. This competency is reinforced and revalidated during annual unit based education, which is mandatory for all RNs. During annual competencies RNs are not required to view the radiation video again, however, they are required to demonstrate understanding of the policy as well as correct performance of the injection and handling of the radioactive material. Conclusions: Despite regulatory deterrents to the procedure, EMU RNs play an important role in the injection of ictal SPECT scan patients at MCA. Through a dedicated radiation safety education and competency assessment, EMU RNs can aquire the knowledge and skills necessary for the safe and rapid injection of the radiopharmaceutical during a seizure event. 1 Christine O'Dell, 1 David Masur, 2 Anne T. Berg, 1 Maryana Sigalova, 1 Rochelle C. Ledgister, and 1 Shlomo Shinnar ( 1 Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; and 2 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ) Rationale: To determine the frequency of the utilization of special educational services in children who present with a first unprovoked seizure. Methods: In a prospective study, 407 children age one month to 19 years (mean age 6.8 years) with a first unprovoked seizure were recruited and then followed for a mean of 14.4 years. A structured interview was conducted > 10 years after the initial seizure which included questions about education. Educational data were available in 325 (80%) cases and in 101 sibling controls. Results: In the overall cohort, 129 (40%) of the subjects and 23 (23%) of the controls in this predominantly inner city cohort had either received any special educational services including resource room or repeated a grade (SpEd group) at some point (p < 0.002). Limiting the analysis to cases with cryptogenic or idiopathic etiology, 85 (33%) of 259 cases compared to 23 (23%) controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.06). Among these 259 cases, 42 (28%) of 152 children who only had one seizure were in the SpEd group compared with 25 (32%) of 79 children with a total of 2 to 9 seizures and 18 (64%) of 28 children with 10 or more seizures over the duration of the study (p = 0.0007). Comparing the children with a cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and only one seizure to the controls, 28% of 152 cases and 23% of controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.39). On the other hand, 40% of 107 children with cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and recurrent seizures were in the SpEd group which was significantly higher than the control group (p = 0.007). Conclusions: Children with recurrent seizures have a higher rate of receiving special educational services than children who present with a single unprovoked seizure or than sibling controls. This is particularly true of those with 10 or more seizures. However, children with a single unprovoked seizure who do not recur have a similar profile of educational needs as controls. These data provide further support for the favorable outcome of children with a single unprovoked seizure. (Supported by NIH grant NS 26151 from NINDS.) 1,4,5 Rosemary J. Panelli, 1 Susan M. Moore, 2 Christine Kilpatrick, 2 Zelko Matkovic, 3 Wendyl D'souza, and 2,3,4 Terence J. O'Brien ( 1 Life and Social Sciences, Swinburne University ; 2 Department of Neurology, Royal Melbourne Hospital ; 3 Department of Neurology, The Alfred ; 4 Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne ; and 5 Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Research suggests that patients with epilepsy are at risk of negative psychosocial effects. This longitudinal study followed a cohort of First Seizure Clinic patients over 12 months to compare psychosocial outcomes of those patients diagnosed with seizures and those who were not. Methods: Following a suspected first seizure, adults with no known prior diagnosis of epilepsy were grouped into four broad diagnostic categories: provoked or single seizures (33.5%), epilepsy (35.5%), syncope (14.3%), or other (18.8%). Self-report questionnaires were completed at the first visit (n = 245), 3 months (n = 156), and 12 months (n = 93). Measures included the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), a perception of general health question, a satisfaction with treatment scale, and a perceived stigma scale. Results: In 245 participants the mean age was 37 years (SD 16) and 65% were male. Anxiety and depression rates did not differ significantly between the four diagnostic groups. However, there was a strong relationship between mood and levels of perceived general health. Patients with the poorest perception of their general health had anxiety and depression levels significantly higher than patients with high levels of perceived general health at all time points (all p < 0.001, one way ANOVA). Satisfaction with treatment also did not vary between diagnostic groups, but was correlated with mood. Low treatment satisfaction was associated with high levels of anxiety and depression: 3 months (anxiety: r = .35, p < 0.001; depression: r = .29, p < 0.01); 12 months (anxiety: r = .27, p < 0.05, depression: r = .24, p < 0.05). There was no difference between the perceived stigma scores of the four diagnostic categories. However, perceived stigma was strongly correlated with anxiety and depression: baseline (anxiety: r = .60; depression: r = .52); 3 months (anxiety: r = .55; depression: r = .55); 12 months (anxiety: r = .47; depression: r = .43); (all p < 0.001). Conclusions: First Seizure Clinic patients diagnosed with seizures do not appear to be at higher risk of affective disturbances or perceived stigma in the first 12 months, than those who are not diagnosed with seizures. Mood is a stronger indicator of patient well-being than diagnosis and this needs to be considered in patient management. (Supported by Australian Research Council and the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria.) 1 Sharon Penney, 1 Maureen Robertson, 1 Jackie Martini, 1 Thea Dupras, 1 Nancy Thornton, 1 Corinne McMillan, 1 Arlene Sadownyk, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Pediatrics, Janeway Child Health Centre, St John, NL, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Informal surveys reveal that in Canada (2003) there are no more than two dozen nurses working part or full-time in epilepsy. Three large Canadian provinces have no access to epilepsy nurses. We conducted a survey to assess the perceived role and value of specialized epilepsy nurses in the out-patient and in-patient setting. Methods: This was a cross-sectional survey involving epileptologists and epilepsy clinic patients across Canada. Epilepsy centers were identified from previous census. Physicians and patients answered a ten-item questionnaire. Physicians were asked about dedicated funding for epilepsy nurses, availability at their centre, specific roles, and a rating of importance of specialized epilepsy nurses. Patients were asked about type of interaction with the epilepsy nurse, perception of helpfulness and satisfaction, as well as health care setting. The project was approved by the internal Ethics Review Board. Results: At the time of this submission, 17 centres had replied, 41% had dedicated funding for a total of 25 epilepsy nurses. Their roles were multiple: 25?100% of their activities were clinical, 5?40% research and 5?30% purely inpatient. Seventy-six percent of the nurses were involved in educational activities, 65% were involved specialized seizure monitoring units, 58% were involved in coordinating pre-surgical evaluation, and 82% were involved in other patient care areas. All centers rated the role of the epilepsy nurse as highly important (7/7). At the time of this report, 92 patients replied. Ninety-six percent had contact with an epilepsy nurse, either directly, over the telephone or both. The most commonly reported benefit was enhancing communication between patients and neurologists (91%), understanding anti-seizure drugs (62%) and understanding epilepsy (54%). In addition, nurses assisted patients cope with epilepsy. Seventy-five percent (75%) rated this as 5/7 or higher, and 80% were highly satisfied with nursing intervention (5/7 or higher). Conclusions: There is a need for an increased role of dedicated epilepsy nurses at all levels of epilepsy care. Both physicians and patients rated patient education, assistance with care and organizational aspects as highly valuable. Unfortunately, many patients with epilepsy do not have access to this valuable resource. 1 Lena K.A. Räty, 2 Birgitta A. Söderfeldt, and 1 Bodil M. Wilde Larsson ( 1 Department of Nursing Science, Division for Health and Caring Sciences, Karlstad, Sweden ; and 2 Department of Neuroscience and Locomotion, Division of Neurology, Linköping, Sweden ) Rationale: The aim was to study the development of the epilepsy condition during adolescence and to identify factors that are of significant importance to achieve optimal psychosocial well-being and seizure-freedom or seizure reduction in adulthood. A further aim was to study quality of life in young adults. Methods: In 1999 151 adolescents (13 - 22 years) with epilepsy answered questionnaires on quality of life focusing on self-esteem, psychosocial and medical aspects. In 2004 a follow-up study was carried out with questionnaires mainly identical to those used in 1999. One questionnaire regarding quality of life (QLI) was added. The answering rate was 70%. No significant differences were found between participants and dropouts regarding variables measured 1999. Results: At present results regarding psychosocial factors and quality of life have been preliminary analysed. Compared with 1999 males reported a lower psychosocial well-being (p = 0.009) at the follow-up in 2004. The differences were most evident in patients aged 18?20 (?22) years. The lowest scores were reported on the sense of coherence, representing confidence in life by measuring manageability, comprehensiveness and meaning (p = 0.01). As five years ago the participants reported a positive self-esteem, however somewhat lower compared with the general population. The lowest quality of life was reported in the psychological/spiritual area and highest in relation to the family. Conclusions: The result indicates that psychosocial well-being, especially regarding the sense of coherence could be age-related in males with epilepsy, with the lowest point at 18 ? 20 years of age. 1 Maureen Robertson, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Although epilepsy has a high prevalence, misconceptions and lack of knowledge among the public are problematic. Grade XII students are at the brink of adulthood. This is an impressionable age when lifetime attitudes are often formed. We evaluated the effect of a structured educational intervention about epilepsy in this age group. Methods: Seventy grade XII students engage annually in one-day field trips with lectures and demonstrations by specialized epilepsy professionals, following a classroom education session on the brain. Pre-intervention (day before) and post-intervention (within 2?3 days), identical questionnaires were administered. Questionnaires contained 21 questions assessing general knowledge about epilepsy, attitudinal aspects, and personal knowledge of people with epilepsy. Sample questions include: ?Is epilepsy a form of mental illness?,??People who have epilepsy should not go out in public places in case they might have a seizure (True/False),??What should you do if you see a person you know having a seizure?? Results: In 2002 the average correct pre-test and post-test response rate was 65% and 87%, respectively. In 2005 the average correct pre-intervention and post-intervention response rate was 49% and 70% respectively (mean difference of 22.4 points, p < 0.001). Therefore knowledge and attitudes improved by this structured educational intervention. Free text analysis of written feedback by students revealed improved attitudes and empathy for people with epilepsy. Conclusions: Epilepsy centers can serve important educational functions in society, an often neglected activity in such specialized units. Educational interventions in epilepsy are meaningful and effective in adolescence. 1 Cheryl P. Shore, 2 Susan M. Perkins, and 1 Joan K. Austin ( 1 Nursing, Indiana University/Purdue University Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 Division of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Previous research suggests that children with epilepsy and their parents experience stressors related to the child's health condition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the Seizures and Epilepsy Education (SEE) program on quality of life, seizure condition management, and health care costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. Methods: A quasi-experimental design was used. Each participant served as his or her control. Most participants were referred by a school nurse or physician. Children were eligible to participate if they were at least 12 years of age, had a diagnosis of epilepsy, and could attend with at least one parent. Parents of children younger than 12 were also eligible to attend. Participants attended the SEE program, a two-day intensive psychoeducational program including content on medical and social aspects of epilepsy. Participants completed instruments to measure the variables of interest prior to program attendance, 4 weeks after attending, and 6 months after attendance. Statistical analysis was completed using SAS Version 9.1. Repeated measures ANCOVA, McNemar's tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were utitlized. Results: Representatives of 17 families participated. Parents significantly improved on many variables both 4 weeks and 6 months after program attendance. Outcomes with continued improvement 6 months after the program included parental perceptions of child behavior, child mental health, and family activities. Parents also demonstrated improved knowledge of epilepsy, less worry about the seizure condition, and had fewer unmet needs for information. Parents reported fewer nonscheduled health care visits and fewer child absences from school after SEE program attendance. Children's scores that remained significantly improved six months after the program included perceptions of their behavior, mental health, self-esteem, and family activities. Children maintained significantly lower levels of depressive symptoms and fewer fears about epilepsy six months after program attendance. Conclusions: The SEE program resulted in significant differences in quality of life indicators, measures of seizure condition management, and health care and related costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. The results are consistent with those from a previous study with adult participants (Helgeson et al., Epilepsia 1990; 31; 75?82). Health care providers can recommend the SEE program and reasonably expect that attendance will result in improved quality of life and seizure condition management. (Supported by The Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of Shire US, Inc.) 1 Deborah L. Shulman, 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Joseph I. Sirven ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, Mesa ) Rationale: Telephone triage is a major part of the role of the epilepsy nurse coordinator. Some calls are from patients, while others are received by a spouse or parent. A large portion of these calls includes: reporting seizures, requesting lab results, and difficulties with medications. Many times instructions are given to adjust medications based on lab results, seizures, or side effects reported. On many occasions the person calling is asked to call back and let us know how they are doing in relation to the instructions given. Unfortunately we do not always receive a call back with this information. Are family members more responsible than patients about calling back? A tracking system to follow up with patients on a timely basis when we did not hear back from them was initiated. This is important in order to improve health outcomes from interventions. Methods: The epilepsy coordinator is responsible for all phone calls for a team of 2 neurologists. All calls received during regular business hours were documented prospectively over a two-week period noting, 1. who called, 2. the purpose of the call, and 3. any directions that were given. All calls pertained to individuals with epilepsy. We did not include calls related to medication refill requests, appointments, scheduling monitoring admissions or calls that did not request a return call. We tabulated the number of calls from family members versus patients, and which group responded to the request to call back. Our intent was to establish better communication with all our patients and to identify which group required more of an effort to establish consistent and reliable communication. Results: A total of 37 phone calls were analyzed with 13 calls for medication problems, 10 to report seizures and 14 for test results. 46% of calls received were by family members and 54% by a patient. Phone calls for test results that led to medication changes represented the largest return rate of calls as instructed with 38% from the family group and 36% from the patients. 50% of families were likely to call back, while 52% of the patients did not. An equal number of spouses called, however, 40% of wives called back versus 20% of husbands. There were more telephone calls from females with a return rate of 55% versus 38% of males that returned calls. 3 out of the 5 calls received from parents were not returned. When we called patients we did not hear from, some stated they planned on calling but they ?did not want to be a bother.? Conclusions: It is important to know how patients are doing after therapy changes. The development of a tracking chart will enable us to reach out to each patient in a timely manner when they do not call back as instructed. Ensuring that health care provider recommendations are completed is essential to improve health outcomes. 1,2 Debbie Terry, 1,3 Juliann Paolicchi, and 1 Mary Karn ( 1 Neurology, Columbus Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH ; 2 Nursing, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; and 3 Pediatrics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy are frequently prescribed diazepam rectal gel for the acute treatment of seizures. In addition to home use, parents have asked other caregivers in day care and school settings to administer diazepam rectal gel. Parents have reported resistance and refusal by schools or day care providers to administer diazepam rectal gel. This may have a significant impact on the child's well being and the child and family's quality of life. The purpose of this study was to identify the frequency with which parents of children with epilepsy experience barriers to the use of diazepam rectal gel in daycare or school settings, what those barriers are, and what the impact is on the child and family. Methods: This was a prospective study conducted in a comprehensive epilepsy clinic. During a six month period, parents of children birth to 18 years were screened to participate in the study. Parents of children previously prescribed diazepam rectal gel were asked to complete an 18 item questionnaire. Results: Of 218 parents screened, 86 qualified for the study and 64 agreed to participate. Of the 64 parents who completed the questionnaire, 43 (68%) had asked their school or daycare to administer diazepam rectal gel. Overall, of those 43 parents, 35 (81%) reported that the school or day care agreed and 8 (19%) reported they refused to give diazepam rectal gel. Of these 43 parents, 16 (37%) asked MRDD schools of which 15 (94%) agreed and 1 (6%) refused; 21 (49%) asked public schools of which 17 (81%) agreed and 4 (19%) refused; and 6 (14%) asked private schools of which 3 (50%) agreed and 3 (50%) refused. There was a statistically significant difference in the responses between MRDD and private schools (p = .028). Reasons for refusal were: 5 (62%) not legally allowed to give diazepam rectal gel, 2 (25%) reasons were unknown, 2 (25%) worry that school staff would not know when to give the medication, 2 (25%) fear of embarrassing the child, and 1 (12.5%) fear of not being able to learn how to give the medication. Of the 8 parents whose school or day care refused to give diazepam rectal gel, 3 (42%) parents reported no effect on their family, but 3 (42%) parents worried their child would be hurt by a seizure, 1 (12.5%) parent kept her child at home, and 1 (12.5%) parent went to school with her child. Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that the majority of children prescribed diazepam rectal gel do not encounter barriers to its use in school and day care settings. However, children in private schools are significantly more likely to encounter barriers than are children in MRDD programs. The most frequently stated reason for refusal of the school or day care to give diazepam rectal gel was legal concerns. When schools refuse to give diazepam rectal gel, the quality of life of the child and family can be significantly impacted. 1 Rupprecht Thorbecke, 1 Ulrich Specht, 1 Joachim Czisch, and 2 Theodor W. May ( 1 Rehabilitation Unit, EvKB, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 2 Society for Epilepsy Research, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: A follow-up evaluation of patients of a specialized rehabilitation unit for people with epilepsy showed significant improvements for epilepsy related fear, emotional adaptation, physical and emotional health, however only weak effects for perceived stigma (PS) (3). Using data from the same cohort, this study aims to get more insight into the association of clinical, neuropsychological and psychosocial variables with PS. Methods: Ninety-six consecutive non-surgical patients with epilepsy (mean age, 35 years, 66% male) completed a validated questionnaire (PESOS) before admission (2, 3). PESOS includes a 4 item PS scale. During the rehabilitation program, all patients underwent comprehensive epileptological, neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluation. Associations between PS and clinical respectively psychosocial variables were tested with univariate methods (p < .05, two tailed). Results: Mean duration of epilepsy was 17.5 years. 24% of the patients were seizure-free (>6 months) on admission. 75% of the patients reported more or less pronounced PS. There were strong relations between PS and emotional adaptation, self esteem, and perceived restrictions because of one's epilepsy (all, p < .01). No association between PS and psychiatric co-morbidity or partnership was found. However PS was higher in patients with early onset of epilepsy, neuropsychological deficits or epilepsy related fears. Patients holding a driving license felt less stigmatized than those who did not. There were however no differences between patients who were actually driving/not driving because of their epilepsy. PS was associated with difficulties to address one's epilepsy when being with other persons, and with the number of friends and frequency of contacts. Conclusions: Our findings are in accordance with the literature, showing that PS is a common finding in chronic epilepsy, with strong associations of PS with emotional variables however only weak associations with seizure frequency (1). They underline the importance of holding a driving license and also of neuropsychological deficits for PS. Finally they demonstrate clearly that PS is associated with social isolation. REFERENCES 1.?Jacoby A. Epilepsy Behav 3, 6S2 (2002) S10?S20. 2.?May TW, et al. PESOS-Fragebogen fuer Menschen mit Epilepsie. Z Epileptol 2004;17(4):287?300. 3.?Specht U., et al. Epilepsia 2004;45 Suppl 7: 57 ( Supported by the society for epilepsy research , Bielefeld , Germany .) 1 Michael J. Wierzbinski, and 2 Paul C. Van Ness ( 1 Medicine Services/Epilepsy Outreach Program, Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX ; and 2 Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: About 25% of adult epilepsy patients have intractable seizures. Many are unable to work or retain a job due to seizures and other co-morbidities. Patients may apply for federal governmental assistance since they are unable to work. They apply thorough the Social Security Administration for one of two programs. One, is Social Supplemental Income (SSI) and or Social Security Disability Income (SSDI), the later if they have a consistent work history. After applying for disability it may take several years before benefits are approved. Additional information would be helpful to find out what variables may determine the time it may take for a positive ruling of disability for a patient's claim. Methods: Chart reviews and telephone interviews were conducted on 25 adult patients from an indigent, urban county hospital who were felt to be disabled. Patients who consistently attended an epilepsy clinic, report having seizures, and have applied for governmental disability benefits were included. Results: Disability information was obtained from 25 patients. 75% of the case had seizure onset before age 20. 36% of the patients had generalized tonic clonic seizures and 32% had generalized seizures along with complex partial seizures. 75% of the patients had a diagnostic EEG that confirmed their epilepsy diagnosis. 40% of the patients had other co-morbidities. 28% had a psychiatric diagnosis. 60% either had cognitive deficits or were diagnosed with borderline IQ and/or mental retardation. 50% had no work history and or a limited work history. Most were over the age of 40 and were minorities. At least, 60% of the patients had previously applied for benefits at least one other time. 30% of the patients who applied for SSI/SSDI were approved for disability within one year of application. 70% who applied for disability had to wait one to three years before they were approved. Conclusions: Applying for disability thorough the Social Security Administration is complex, confusing, and time consuming. Most patients in this study required assistance in applying for disability from an attorney or social worker. Some patients have filed multiple times for disability. Many are denied disability initially despite eventual approval. Several cases were told that they could work despite the physician's opinion. The wait has many psychosocial implications. Some patients give up trying to obtain disability and depend upon family for financial assistance. Finally, several patients had their disability claim turned down by disability attorneys/representatives. The later did not want to represent the patient's disability claim. There was no one to assist them thorough this process except their social worker. (Supported by Epilepsy Outreach Program is funded by a grant from the Department of State Health Services (Texas).)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Thomas, Howard
AU  - Ougham, Helen
C8  - 2016-22817
TI  - Introduction to a Virtual Issue on plant senescence
JO  - New Phytologist
JA  - New Phytol
VL  - 212
IS  - 3
SN  - 0028-646X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.14248
DO  - doi:10.1111/nph.14248
SP  - 531
EP  - 536
KW  - ageing
KW  - death
KW  - life cycle
KW  - pigmentation
KW  - senescence
KW  - virtual issue
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - An, Yong Jin
AU  - Cho, Hye Rim
AU  - Kim, Tae Min
AU  - Keam, Bhumsuk
AU  - Kim, Jin Wook
AU  - Wen, He
AU  - Park, Chul-Kee
AU  - Lee, Se-Hoon
AU  - Im, Seock-Ah
AU  - Kim, Jeong Eun
AU  - Choi, Seung Hong
AU  - Park, Sunghyouk
TI  - An NMR metabolomics approach for the diagnosis of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis in lung adenocarcinoma cancer patients
JO  - International Journal of Cancer
JA  - Int. J. Cancer
VL  - 136
IS  - 1
SN  - 0020-7136
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ijc.28949
DO  - doi:10.1002/ijc.28949
SP  - 162
EP  - 171
KW  - metabolomics
KW  - leptomeningeal carcinomatosis
KW  - CSF
KW  - diagnosis
KW  - metastasis
PY  - 2015
AB  - Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis (LC) is a metastatic cancer invading the central nervous system (CNS). We previously reported a metabolomic diagnostic approach as tested on an animal model and compared with current modalities. Here, we provide a proof of concept by applying it to human LC originating from lung cancer, the most common cause of CNS metastasis. Cerebrospinal fluid from LC (n?=?26) and normal groups (n?=?41) were obtained, and the diagnosis was established with clinical signs, cytology, MRI and biochemical tests. The cytology on the CSF, the current gold standard, exhibited 69% sensitivity (?100% specificity) from the first round of CSF tapping. In comparison, the nuclear magnetic resonance spectra on the CSF showed a clear difference in the metabolic profile between the LC and normal groups. Multivariate analysis and cross-validation yielded the diagnostic sensitivity of 92%, the specificity of 96% and the area under the curve (AUC) of 0.991. Further spectral and statistical analysis identified myo-inositol (p?<?5 ? 10?14), creatine (p?<?7 ? 10?8), lactate (p?<?9 ? 10?4), alanine (p?<?7.9 ? 10?3) and citrate (p?<?3 ? 10?4) as the most contributory metabolites, whose combination exhibited an receiver?operating characteristic diagnostic AUC of 0.996. In addition, the metabolic profile could be correlated with the grading of radiological leptomeningeal enhancement (R2?=?0.3881 and p?=?6.66 ? 10?4), suggesting its potential utility in grading LC. Overall, we propose that the metabolomic approach might augment current diagnostic modalities for LC, the accurate diagnosis of which remains a challenge.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nov-Klaiman, Tamar
AU  - Raz, Aviad E.
AU  - Hashiloni-Dolev, Yael
TI  - Attitudes of Israeli parents of children with Down syndrome toward non-invasive prenatal screening and the scope of prenatal testing
JO  - Journal of Genetic Counseling
JA  - J Genet Couns
VL  - 28
IS  - 6
SN  - 1059-7700
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jgc4.1162
DO  - doi:10.1002/jgc4.1162
SP  - 1119
EP  - 1129
KW  - Down syndrome
KW  - Israel
KW  - NIPS
KW  - parents
KW  - prenatal genetic screening
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Due to its early utilization and increasing ability to provide genetic information, non-invasive prenatal screening (NIPS) has reinforced social and bioethical quandaries concerning prenatal genetics. This paper presents exploratory findings based on 20 semi-structured interviews conducted in 2017?2019 with Israeli parents of children with Down syndrome (DS), four of whom also serving as representatives of DS organizations. Their views are presented regarding the pros and cons of NIPS; the social context of decision-making about NIPS; and views on life with DS and termination of pregnancies on that ground. While illustrating the large heterogeneity of views concerning NIPS and prenatal diagnosis (PND) amongst parents of children with DS, our respondents commonly criticized the imbalanced information provided by professionals regarding DS, seen as sending a discriminating message in line with the public ignorance surrounding DS. These views are further discussed in the multi-cultural, ableist and pro-natal context of Israeli society. We conclude by offering practical implications concerning NIPS, parental autonomy, and informed choice.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ferreira, Jacques P
AU  - Ndawana, Patience S
AU  - Dzikiti, Loveness N
AU  - Dzikiti, Brighton T
TI  - Determination of the minimum infusion rate of propofol required to prevent purposeful movement of the extremities in response to a standardized noxious stimulus in goats
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 43
IS  - 5
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12327
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12327
SP  - 519
EP  - 527
KW  - goat
KW  - minimum infusion rate
KW  - noxious stimulus
KW  - propofol
KW  - total intravenous anaesthesia
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Objective To determine the minimum infusion rate (MIR) of propofol required to prevent purposeful movement in response to a standardized stimulus in goats. Study design Prospective, experimental study. Animals Eight healthy goats (four does, four wethers). Methods Anaesthesia was induced with 4 mg kg?1 propofol intravenously (IV). A continuous IV infusion of propofol at 0.6 mg kg?1 minute?1 was initiated immediately to maintain anaesthesia. Following endotracheal intubation, goats breathed spontaneously via a circle breathing system delivering supplementary oxygen. The initial propofol infusion rate was maintained for 30 minutes before responses to noxious stimulation provided by clamping the proximal part of the claw with a Vulsellum forceps for 60 seconds were tested. In the presence or absence of purposeful movements of the extremities, the infusion rate was increased or reduced by 0.1 mg kg?1 minute?1 and held constant for 30 minutes before claw clamping was repeated. The propofol MIR for each goat was calculated as the mean of the infusion rates that allowed and abolished movement. Basic cardiopulmonary parameters were monitored, recorded and tested for statistical significance using Wilcoxon's signed rank test with Bonferroni adjustment for multiple testing. The quality of recovery from anaesthesia was assessed and scored. Results The median MIR of propofol was 0.45 mg kg?1 minute?1 (range: 0.45?0.55 mg kg?1 minute?1). Induction and recovery were free of adverse behaviour. No statistically significant cardiopulmonary changes in comparison with baseline were observed, but clinically relevant hypoxaemia at 2 minutes after induction of anaesthesia was consistently observed. Chewing during anaesthesia was observed in three goats. Median times to extubation and standing were 3 minutes (range: 2?6 minutes) and 10 minutes (range: 7?21 minutes), respectively. Conclusions and clinical relevance Propofol induction and maintenance of general anaesthesia minimally compromise cardiopulmonary function when oxygen is supplemented in goats.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zeiler, Gareth E
AU  - Dzikiti, Brighton T
AU  - Fosgate, Geoffrey T
AU  - Stegmann, Frik G
AU  - Venter, Frans J
AU  - Rioja, Eva
TI  - Anaesthetic, analgesic and cardiorespiratory effects of intramuscular medetomidine-ketamine combination alone or with morphine or tramadol for orchiectomy in cats
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 41
IS  - 4
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12136
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12136
SP  - 411
EP  - 420
KW  - anaesthesia
KW  - feline
KW  - ketamine
KW  - medetomidine
KW  - morphine
KW  - orchiectomy
KW  - tramadol
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Objectives To compare the anaesthetic, analgesic and cardiorespiratory effects of intramuscular (IM) medetomidine and ketamine administered alone or combined with morphine or tramadol, for orchiectomy in cats. Study design Randomised, blinded, prospective clinical study. Animals Thirty client-owned cats. Materials and methods Cats (n = 10 in each group) received a combination of medetomidine (60 ?gkg?1) and ketamine (10 mg kg?1) alone (MedK); combined with morphine (0.2 mg kg?1) (MedKM), or combined with tramadol (2 mg kg?1) (MedKT) IM. Time of induction, surgical and recovery events were recorded, and physiological parameters measured and recorded. Analgesia was evaluated with a visual analogue scale, a composite scoring system and the von Frey mechanical threshold device, every hour from three to eight hours post-drug administration injection. Data were analyzed with a linear mixed model, Kruskal?Wallis or Chi-square tests (p < 0.05). Results Median (IQR) induction and recovery times (minutes) were not significantly (p = 0.125) different between groups: 5.6 (2.7?8.0), 7.4 (5.1?9.6) and 8.0 (5.8?14.9) for induction and 128.5 (95.1?142.8), 166.4 (123.1?210.0) and 142.9 (123.4?180.2) for recovery, with MedK, MedKT and MedKM, respectively. Two cats (MedKM) required alfaxalone for endotracheal intubation. In all groups, three or four cats required additional isoflurane for surgery. Arterial oxygen tension overall (mean ± SD: 66 ± 2 mmHg) was low. Surgery resulted in increased systolic arterial blood pressure (p < 0.001), haemoglobin saturation (p < 0.001), respiratory (p = 0.003) and heart rates (p = 0.002). Pain scores did not differ significantly between groups. Von Frey responses decreased over time; changes over time varied by treatment (p < 0.001), MedK returning to baseline values more rapidly than MedKM and MedKT. No cat required rescue analgesics. Conclusion and clinical relevance All three protocols can provide adequate anaesthesia and analgesia for orchiectomy in cats. However, rescue intervention to maintain surgical anaesthesia may be required in some cats. Oxygen supplementation is advised.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Antiepileptic Drugs: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_19.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_19.x
SP  - 205
EP  - 222
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 E. Andermann, 1 F. Andermann, 2 P. Meyvisch, 2 A. Vandendriessche, and 2 J. Schiemann Delgado ( 1 Montreal Neurological Hospital  and 2 Clinical, UCB SA, Pharma Sector, Braine l'Alleud, Belgium ) Rationale: The purpose of this trial was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of levetiracetam (LEV) 3000 mg/d (b.i.d.) in patients with idiopathic generalised epilepsy experiencing myoclonic seizures. Methods: In this multicentre, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial, patients who were poorly controlled on one antiepileptic drug (AED) were randomised 1:1, LEV versus placebo. To be eligible, patients had to experience at least 8 days with myoclonic seizures during the 8-week prospective baseline. The 16-week treatment period was composed of a 4-week titration period followed by a 12-week stable dose evaluation period. Seizures were reported by the patients on diaries, myoclonic seizures and absence seizures being reported as days with seizures, while primary generalised tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures were counted individually. The primary efficacy endpoint was the responder rate (≥50% reduction in days with myoclonic seizures during the treatment period versus baseline). Results: 122 patients, aged 12?65 years, 113 with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and 9 with juvenile absence epilepsy, were randomised. 60 LEV patients and 60 placebo patients were evaluable for efficacy and safety. The responder rate for myoclonic seizures was 58.3% with LEV versus 23.3% with placebo (p = 0.0002). As a secondary analysis, for all seizure types, the median difference between groups in the percent reduction from baseline was obtained and compared using the Wilcoxon Mann Whitney test. The median difference in percent reduction in seizure days per week for all seizure types was 38.08 (LEV, n = 60; placebo, n = 60; p < 0.0001); for myoclonic seizures, it was 36.55 (LEV, n = 60; placebo, n = 60; p < 0.0001); and for absence seizures, it was 0 (LEV, n = 19; placebo, n = 17; p = not significant). The median difference in percent reduction in seizure frequency per week for PGTC seizures was 30.35 (LEV, n = 15; placebo, n = 18; p = not significant). LEV also demonstrated a good tolerability profile. Conclusions: LEV is highly efficacious and well tolerated in the treatment of refractory patients with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. LEV decreases the number of days with myoclonic seizures in a statistically and clinically significant manner. No significant difference was observed for absence and PGTC seizures. (Supported by funds from UCB.) 1 Dora B. Arevalo, 1 Juan R. Osorio, 1 Josue Medina, and 2 Reyna M. Duron ( 1 Centro de Salud de Opoa, Secretary of Health, Copan, Honduras ; and 2 Neurology Training Program, National Autonomous University of Honduras, Tegucigalpa, Honduras ) Rationale: Injuries associated to epileptic seizures are increasingly recognized in Honduras, where epilepsy is highly prevalent. Our goal was to determine the profile and outcome of epilepsy patients who suffer burns associated to seizures. Methods: A prospective study was performed at the Surgery Services in a rural hospital of West Honduras (Copan City) and the University Hospital at Tegucigalpa City from January 2002 to March of 2005. Demographic data, treatment status and characteristics of burns were evaluated. Results: During the study period, 24 patients with epilepsy were admitted because of burns (71% women and 29% men). The average age was 33 years old (range 11?64). Most burns occurred with hot liquids; 71% of them were grade II and 29% were grade III. All patients reported tonic-clonic seizures during the accident; most were partial secondarily generalized seizures. Sixty-two percent of patients were not under antiepileptic treatment because of discipline and financial issues and 38% were taking treatment but had uncontrolled seizures. There were no fatal cases during the admission time. All patients had aesthetic consequences. Conclusions: This study shows the impact of uncontrolled epileptic seizures in Honduras. Patients suffer these kind of accidents because of non-compliance and problems accessing antiepileptic treatments. There is need for strategies to prevent these and other kinds of accidents in patients with epilepsy in Honduras. 1 Jacci L. Bainbridge ( 1 Neurology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ) Rationale: In this study data relating to seizure count/frequency were obtained from subjects switched from immediate-release carbamazepine (IR-CBZ) to an equal total daily dose of Carbatrol? extended-release capsules (CBZ-ERC) at a minimum of 400 mg/d. Methods: At baseline, eligible and enrolled subjects were switched from their current IR-CBZ product to an equal total daily dose of CBZ-ERC. Grounds for exclusion from this multicenter study included: known history of generalized tonic-clonic status epilepticus or epilepsy syndromes that may potentially worsen with carbamazepine treatment, progressive neurological disorder, receiving more than 1 additional antiepileptic drug or any type of neuroleptic drug, or CBZ-ERC treatment within 90 days of study screening. Data from 453 patients with epilepsy were collected. Seizure count assessment via seizure diary was performed at baseline (month 0), month 2, and endpoint, while assessment of seizure count at months 1 and 3 were communicated by telephone. Results: Overall mean monthly seizure count (all patients) was significantly decreased both at month 3 and at end point when compared to baseline (P= .05). Conclusions: Monthly seizure count was significantly reduced in patients switched from IR-CBZ to CBZ-ERC at comparable doses. These data support CBZ-ERC as an effective formulation to deliver carbamazepine to the patient with epilepsy. Carbatrol is registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. (Supported by Shire.) 1 Steffen Baltes, 1 Heidrun Potschka, and 1 Wolfgang Löscher ( 1 Department of Pharmacology,Toxicology, and Pharmacy, University of Veterinary Medicine, Hannover, Germany ) Rationale: The overexpression of multidrug transporters (MDTs) in the blood-brain barrier (BBB), particularly of P-glycoprotein (P-gp, ABCB1) and multidrug resistance-associated proteins (MRPs, ABCC), is discussed to be involved in pharmacoresistance to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). It has been demonstrated that this overexpression is correlated with seizure severity and duration. This MDT overexpression may hamper a successful treatment of status epilepticus (SE). Our previous studies revealed that the brain access of several AEDs (e.g. phenytoin and phenobarbital) may be limited by MDTs. Other studies indicate that MRPs are involved in the efflux of valproic acid (VPA) at the BBB. However, VPA is known to be often efficacious in treatment of patients with SE resistant to benzodiazepines or phenytoin. As well as for SE as with regard to chronic treatment of epilepsy, the aim of the study presented here was to investigate whether P-gp or in particular MRP2 is involved in VPA transport at the BBB. Methods: We performed in vitro transport assays with cell lines overexpressing P-gp or MRP2, respectively, and we performed brain microdialysis experiments in rats applying two strategies to demonstrate MDT function. Verapamil and probenecid were used to inhibit MDTs in normal rats. Furthermore brain access of VPA was compared between mutant rats lacking MRP2 and wildtype rats of the background strain. Results: No significant in vitro transport of VPA nor any significant impact of MDTs on extracellular brain levels in rats could be found. VPA was the first AED we investigated so far passing this variety of tests without any indication of transport by P-gp or MRP2. Conclusions: The lack of P-gp and MRP2 to limit the brain access of VPA would provide an explanation for the efficacy of VPA especially in SE patients that are resistant to other AEDs. Currently, we investigate a potential impact of MDTs on intracellular VPA brain concentration. (Supported by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Bonn, Germany) and Desitin Arzneimittel GmbH (Hamburg,Germany).) 1 Victor Biton, 2 Rajesh Sachdeo, 3 William Rosenfeld, 4 Steven Schachter, 5 Carlos Perdomo, and 5 Santiago Arroyo ( 1 Clinical Trials, Inc., Little Rock, AR ; 2 St. Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ ; 3 Comprehensive Epilepsy Care Center for Children and Adults, St. Luke's Hosptial, St. Louis, MO ; 4 Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ; and 5 Eisai Global Clinical Development, Ridgefield Park, NJ ) Rationale: Rufinamide, a structurally novel antiepileptic drug (AED) under investigation, demonstrates broad-spectrum anticonvulsant activity in animal models. The efficacy and safety of rufinamide (800 mg/d) as adjunctive therapy was evaluated for patients with inadequately controlled primary generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures. Methods: This multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of rufinamide (initiated and maintained at 800 mg/d, BID) consisted of a 56-day baseline phase and a 140-day double-blind phase. The study was open to patients ≥4 years of age with a diagnosis of inadequately controlled primary GTC seizures who were treated with 1 or 2 concomitant, fixed-dosage AEDs. To be randomized, patients had to have experienced at least 3 GTC seizures during the baseline phase, with at least 1 occurrence during each 28-day baseline period. The primary efficacy end point was the percent change from baseline in GTC seizure frequency per 28 days. Adverse events (AEs) and laboratory measures for patients receiving any amount of study drug were used to assess safety. Results: A total of 153 patients were randomized and received at least one dose of study drug: rufinamide, n = 78; placebo, n = 75. Mean age of treated patients was 29.3 years (range, 4?63 y) and the median number of GTC seizures per 28 days during baseline was 3.5 (range, 1.5?84) and 4.0 (range, 1.5?74) for the rufinamide and placebo groups, respectively. The primary efficacy variable did not show a significant difference between rufinamide (median reduction, 36.4%) and placebo (25.6%; p = 0.633). Sixty-four patients (82.1%) in the rufinamide group and 61 placebo patients (81.3%) experienced at least 1 AE. Nonfatal serious AEs were reported by 7 rufinamide-treated and 4 placebo patients, but none were considered related to the study drug. Three patients in each treatment group discontinued due to AEs and 1 placebo patient died. Adverse events (reported by ≥10% of patients) in the rufinamide group versus placebo were headache (21.8% vs 22.7%), somnolence (16.7% vs 13.3%), nausea (16.7% vs 8.0%), dizziness (12.8% vs 10.7%), and vomiting (10.3% vs 6.7%). No treatment-emergent and clinically relevant alterations were seen in laboratory parameters. Conclusions: A greater median reduction in GTC seizure frequency was seen in rufinamide-treated patients compared to those receiving placebo, but the difference was not statistically significant. Safety assessments were comparable between treatment groups. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 Victor Biton, 2 Alain Vuong, 2 Susan Kerls, 2 Anne Hammer, and 2 John Messenheimer ( 1 Arkansas Epilepsy Program, Arkansas Epilepsy Program, Little Rock, AR ; and 2 Neurology, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: In the US, LAMICTAL? (lamotrigine, LTG) is indicated for partial seizures with or without secondarily generalization in children and adults, and for the generalized seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. This abstract reports efficacy, including time to onset, and tolerability results from a study with LTG as adjunctive therapy in patients with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS). Methods: LTG-naïve patients (≥ 2 years, ≥ 13 kg) with inadequately controlled PGTCS, receiving a stable regimen of 1 or 2 AED(s) and an electroencephalogram (EEG) with evidence of generalized epileptiform discharges or no evidence of interictal expression of partial seizures were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial. Patients having ≥ 3 PGTCS over an 8-week Baseline were randomized (1:1) to receive either LTG or placebo (PBO). The treatment period consisted of an Escalation phase (12 weeks for patients 2?12 years, 7 weeks for patients > 12 years) and a Maintenance phase (12 weeks). Results: Of 184 patients enrolled, 117 were randomized and received LTG or PBO. LTG group: n = 58, 50% male, median age = 27 years (range = 2?53), 50% with 1 concurrent AED, most common concurrent AED: valproate = 41%, phenytoin = 31%, topiramate = 21%, median PGTCS during Baseline = 2.4. PBO group: n = 59, 56% male, median age = 25 years (range = 2?55), 59% with 1 concurrent AED, most common concurrent AED: valproate = 47%, phenytoin = 22%, topiramate = 12%, median PGTCS during Baseline = 2.9. In the overall population the median percent decreases from Baseline in PGTCS were 56% and 30% (p = 0.036) 5 weeks after treatment initiation with LTG and PBO, respectively; in patients >12 years, the decreases were 63% and 33% (p = 0.045) 3 weeks after treatment initiation. The median percent decreases from Baseline in PGTCS were 82% and 43% (p = 0.006) during Maintenance, and 66% and 34% (p = 0.006) during the entire treatment phase, for LTG and PBO, respectively. The median PGTCS counts per month were 2.4 and 2.9 during Baseline for LTG and PBO, respectively, 1.0 and 2.3 (p = 0.013) during Escalation, and 0.4 and 1.6 (p = 0.001) during Maintenance, and 0.8 and 2.0 (p = 0.003) during the entire treatment phase. The most common (≥ 5%) drug-related adverse events for LTG and PBO respectively were dizziness: 5% and 2% for LTG and PBO respectively, somnolence: 5% and 2%, and nausea: 5% and 3%. The non-serious rash rate was 3% for both LTG and PBO. No serious rash was reported. Conclusions: The results from this study, combined with the established efficacy and safety of LTG for partial seizures, clearly demonstrate that LTG is a broad spectrum AED which is efficacious and well tolerated in patients with either partial or generalized seizures. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 David Burdette ( 1 Department of Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: This open-label study assessed the efficacy and safety of low-dose zonisamide initiated in combination with concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Methods: Patients aged ≥12 years with partial seizures treated with 1 or 2 concomitant AEDs were enrolled in a 4-week screening phase (SP). Patients were required to have ≥1 seizure during the SP to be eligible for the study. Zonisamide was initiated at a dosage of 25 mg/d and increased to a maximum tolerated dosage or 400 mg/d during the titration phase (TP) (Weeks 0?8). Patients then received their maximum tolerated dosage for the maintenance phase (MP) (Weeks 9?12). The primary efficacy measure was seizure frequency per 28 days as recorded in a seizure diary. Secondary efficacy measures were the change in seizure type or duration and in physician and patient global assessments (rated on a 0?100 scale) between Week 0 (baseline) and Week 12. Safety was assessed via reports of adverse events (AEs) and changes in body weight. Results: A total of 243 patients (mean age, 35.7 years; range, 12?85 years) were treated. Median duration of treatment was 84 days (range, 1?162 days); median maximum zonisamide dosage was 400 mg/d (range, 25?800 mg/d). Median seizure frequency decreased by 47.6% from 8.3 (SP) to 4.0 (MP), with 48.5% of patients (95% confidence interval [CI]: 41.4, 55.5) experiencing ≥50% seizure frequency reduction. Median frequencies of simple partial, complex partial, and other seizure types were reduced by 57.1%, 51.0%, and 96.1%, respectively. A ≥50% reduction in frequency of simple partial, complex partial, and other seizure types was observed in 53.2%, 51.0%, and 69.7% of patients, respectively. No change in seizure type or duration was apparent with zonisamide therapy. Patients' global assessment of AED therapy improved significantly from a mean score of 40.7 at baseline to 67.1 (95% CI: 63.1, 70.4) during treatment. Investigator global assessments of AED therapy also improved from a mean of 31.7 at baseline to 64.0 (95% CI: 61.3, 66.8) during treatment. The most frequently reported treatment-emergent AEs (≥10% of patients) included dizziness (17.3%), somnolence (17.3%), headache (14.0%), abnormal thinking (13.2%), asthenia (11.9%), anorexia (11.5%), accidental injury (11.1%), and nausea (10.7%). Thirteen patients (5.3%) experienced serious AEs (SAEs), 4 of whom had SAEs considered to be zonisamide related. Twenty-two patients (9.1%) withdrew from the study for AEs. Mean body weight decreased from baseline by 0.7 kg (95% CI: -1.1, -0.4) and 1.0 kg (95% CI: -1.3, -0.6) in the TP and MP, respectively. Conclusions: This low-dose, slow titration regimen for zonisamide resulted in substantially decreased seizure frequency, and a significant proportion of patients had a ≥50% seizure frequency reduction. Zonisamide was also generally safe and well tolerated. Small but significant decreases in body weight were observed during the study. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 Frances J. Hayes, 2 Paul T. Caldwell, 1 Patrick M. Sluss, 2 Clay R. Warnock, and 2 Jouko I. Isojarvi ( 1 Gynecology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA ; and 2 Neurosciences MDC, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: To evaluate the impact of initiating therapy with either valproate (VPA) or lamotrigine (LTG) on body weight and serum lipid levels in women with epilepsy (WWE). Methods: Eligibility criteria for this prospective, randomized, open-label, multicenter study (LAM30007) included age 13?40 years, regular menstrual cycles; no concurrent hormonal medications; no prior LTG or VPA; and either newly diagnosed [<2 weeks prior antiepileptic drug (AED)] or inadequately controlled epilepsy (only 1 chronic AED≥3 months). Subjects were randomized to VPA or LTG and were treated for up to 12 months. Fasting serum lipid levels and body weight were measured at baseline and every three months during the study. To exclude the confounding effect of puberty on the results, a post-hoc analysis was conducted in women who were >2 years post menarche. An Analysis of Covariance model comparing end of study measurements to screen was used, including the screening measurement and group center as covariates. Results: A total of 363 women (177 LTG, 186 VPA) ages 12 to 40 years were evaluated. The mean weight gain in the VPA group was 2.8 kg (SD = 3.35) and 0.2 (SD = 3.90) kg in the LTG group (p < 0.001). Mean serum triglyceride concentrations increased 8.4 mg/dL (SD = 37.5) in women taking VPA, while they decreased slightly in the LTG group (0.2 mg/dL, SD = 36.3, p = 0.019). The serum total cholesterol levels showed a slight decrease in both treatment groups, but there was a mean decrease of 2.6 mg/dL (SD = 10.3) in serum HDL-cholesterol levels in VPA treated women, whereas a slight increase of 0.6 mg/dL (SD = 9.2) was observed during LTG treatment (p = 0.001). Conclusions: This large, multiethnic, prospective, randomized study indicates that VPA is associated with weight gain and unfavorable changes in serum lipid levels in WWE, whereas LTG does not seem to affect body weight or serum lipid levels. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Michael P. Charlet ( 1 Neurology, Leonard J. Chabert Medical Center, Houma, LA ) Rationale: Optimizing treatment for patients with epilepsy must take into account more than basic seizure control. The assessment of adverse events (AEs) and tolerability are important goals in this population to balance medication dosage and efficacy. Differences in adverse event profile or severity between immediate-release and extended-release formulations of carbamazepine are not clearly defined. In this study, tolerability and safety data was obtained from subjects switched from immediate-release carbamazepine (IR-CBZ) to an equal total daily dose of Carbatrol? extended-release capsules (CBZ-ERC) at a minimum of 400 mg/d. Methods: At baseline, eligible and enrolled subjects were switched from their current IR-CBZ product to an equal total daily dose of CBZ-ERC. Grounds for exclusion from this multicenter open-label study included: known history of generalized tonic-clonic status epilepticus or epilepsy syndromes that may potentially worsen with carbamazepine treatment, progressive neurological disorder, receiving more than 1 additional antiepileptic drug or any type of neuroleptic drug, or CBZ-ERC treatment within 90 days of study screening. Data from 381 patients with epilepsy were collected. Assessments performed at baseline (month 0) and month 3 included adverse event profile (AEP) for adults 18?59 years of age, Hague seizure severity (HASS) and side-effects (HASES) scales for adolescents <18 years of age (filled out by parent or guardian of adolescent study participant), and monitoring of AE occurrence. The AEP is a 19-item questionnaire scored on a scale from 1 (never a problem) to 4 (always or often a problem), and takes into account sedation, dizziness, unsteadiness, concentration difficulty, depression, and double/blurred vision. Results: The AEP (adults) as well as HASES (adolescents) showed significant decreases from baseline to month 3 in overall mean side effect score (P= .0001 and P= .01, respectively). Subscale scores of both questionnaires also showed significant decreases on many variables. HASS showed a decreased total score with a trend toward significance. Most commonly occurring AEs were headache, dizziness, and fatigue. Overall, 78.8% of both patients and parents (of adolescent patients), as well as 86.4% of physicians preferred CBZ-ERC to previous IR-CBZ medications. Patient responses also indicated that compared to 38.7% at baseline (IR-CBZ), 58.6% of patients ?strongly agree? that they rarely skip or miss a dose of their medication. Conclusions: Patients with epilepsy switched from IR-CBZ to ERC-CBZ experienced decreased AE occurrence and severity. While 22.1% of study participants reported at least one AE, only 3.3% discontinued due to AE occurrence, and only 3.9% reported AE occurrence as ?severe.? These data demonstrate the benefits of ERC-CBZ in terms of safety, tolerability, and preference in a clinical trial setting. (Supported by Shire.) 1 Pamela L. Clemens, 1 James C. Cloyd, 2 Robert L. Kriel, and 1 Rory P. Remmel ( 1 Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ; and 2 Neurology, Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Rectal administration of some AEDs is a viable alternative when the oral route is temporarily unavailable. Oxcarbazepine (OXC) is a newer AED that is rapidly converted to a monohydroxy derivative (MHD), the active compound. Our study was designed to characterize the bioavailability and tolerability of OXC suspension (300 mg/5 ml) administered rectally. Methods: This study used a randomized, crossover design in 10 healthy volunteers who were randomized to the order of routes of administration. Subjects fasted the morning of each dose and administered a Fleet's enema before the rectal dose. The rectal dose was mixed with an equal volume of water and administered via a catheter attached to a syringe. A two-week wash-out occurred between doses. Blood was drawn pre-dose and 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 72 hours post-dose. The first 2 subjects received 300 mg doses. Following review of concentrations and tolerability, the remaining 8 subjects received 450 mg doses. Side effects were assessed at each sampling timepoint using a self-administered questionnaire with a 5-point rating scale (5 = most severe). Plasma samples were assayed for OXC and MHD using a validated HPLC assay. Lower limit of detection for MHD was 0.01 mcg/ml and 0.015 mcg/ml for OXC. Maximum concentration (Cmax) and time to maximum concentration (tmax) were obtained directly from the plasma concentration-time curves (AUCs). AUCs were determined for both OXC and MHD via non-compartmental analysis using WinNonLin. Relative bioavailability was calculated as (AUCrectal/AUCoral)*100%. AUC and Cmax of MHD following each route of administration were compared using Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. Results: Mean relative bioavailability of MHD was 10.15% (SD 6.73) in the 2 subjects receiving 300 mg doses and 7.77% (SD 5.93) in the 450 mg dose subjects. The MHD Cmax and AUC at the 450 mg dose level differed significantly between routes (p < 0.01). The most common side effects were headache and fatigue; there was no discernable difference between routes. One subject rated discomfort of rectal administration as 3/5, another reported discomfort of oral administration 1/5 due to taste. Most subjects had a few clinical labs outside the normal range, each was considered clinically insignificant. Conclusions: The Cmax and exposure to MHD after rectal administration of OXC suspension are significantly less than after oral administration. It is unlikely that adequate MHD concentrations can be reached by rectally administering diluted OXC suspension. (Supported by Novartis  and 2 Neurology, University of Wisconsin Hospitals, Madison, WI ) Rationale: In September 2004 the State of Wisconsin Medicaid program mandated a change to generic phenytoin for those patients on brand Dilantin unless there was Federal Medwatch form filed documenting an adverse event. This is in contrast to the previously accepted physician request for dispensing ?brand medically necessary.? Other drugs newly included in that list included warfarin, cyslosporine and levothyroxine. Pre and post phenytoin concentrations were measured for eight patients changed from brand Dilantin to Mylan's phenytoin and given the same dose. All patients had a fall in phenytoin concentrations and most required a dose adjustment to attain concentrations between 10?20mcg/ml. Some patients required a dose increase to the extent that the monthly cost for generic exceeded their previous cost for branded product. One patient reported breakthrough seizures during this transition. Widespread complaints to the Medicaid program from patients and caregivers affected by this mandate resulted in a withdrawal of that requirement three months after its inception. Brand product may now be dispensed if the physician documents on a Medwatch form that they anticipate an adverse outcome. Methods: Retrospective chart review. Results: Serum Concentration and Doses will be presented in table form. Conclusions: Change from brand Dilantin to generic formulation may result in a fall in serum concentrations. 1 Joan A. Conry, 2 R. Eugene Ramsay, 3 David Vossler, and 4 Tracy A. Glauser ( 1 Department of Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ; 2 International Center for Epilepsy, University of Miami Medical School, Miami, FL ; 3 Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 4 Division of Neurology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: This study assessed the efficacy and safety of zonisamide (ZNS) as adjunctive therapy in patients with primary generalized epilepsy. Methods: Fifty-six patients with refractory primary generalized epilepsy received open-label adjunctive ZNS for up to 172 weeks. During the primary study phase (Weeks 0?16), ZNS was titrated in 100-mg increments to efficacy or a maximum dosage of 600 mg/d (Weeks 1?8); this dosage was then maintained (Weeks 8?16). If a patient was unable to achieve a ZNS dosage in an increment of 100 mg by Week 16, and the lower dose forms were not commercially available, he or she was permitted to enter the extension phase (Weeks 16?172). During the extension phase, patients were evaluated every 12 weeks for 36 weeks and every 24 weeks for the next 96 weeks, for a total of 5 scheduled study visits (including screening and baseline [BL]) during the primary phase and 8 during the extension phase. Efficacy was assessed by change from BL in seizure type/frequency and investigator/patient global assessments (GAs); safety evaluations included assessment of adverse events (AEs). Results: Forty-eight patients completed the primary phase; mean ZNS dosage was 4.8 mg/kg per day, and mean treatment duration was 112 days. Forty-two patients were included in the extension phase; mean ZNS dosage was 4.7 mg/kg per day, and mean duration of treatment was 411 days. The number of patients with absence seizures decreased from BL (n = 44, 78.6%) to Week 16 (n = 33, 58.9%) and Week 172 (n = 9, 22.5%), as did the number of patients with myoclonic seizures (BL: n = 23, 41.1%; Week 16: n = 13, 23.2%; Week 172: n = 8, 20.0%) and tonic-clonic seizures (BL: n = 19, 33.9%; Week 16: n = 14, 25.0%; Week 172: n = 7, 17.5%). Overall, median number of seizures per month changed from 49.5 at BL to 23 at Week 16 and 41.0 at Week 172. Investigator/patient GAs of seizure control improved from mean scores of 3.10 (investigator) and 4.17 (patient) at BL to 6.11 (investigator) and 5.92 (patient) at Week 16. Investigator and patient GAs of seizure frequency varied during the extension phase but were consistently higher than BL values. Patient GAs of well-being did not change substantially during the study. Five patients (8.9%) discontinued ZNS for AEs. Nine patients (16.1%) had serious AEs (SAEs), 2 of whom had SAEs that were considered ZNS related. Most frequently reported treatment-related, treatment-emergent AEs were tiredness (17.9%), somnolence (14.3%), anorexia (10.7%), agitation/irritability (8.9%), and fatigue (8.9%). Conclusions: Zonisamide was effective adjunctive therapy in patients with primary generalized seizures (absence, tonic-clonic, myoclonic) and was generally safe and well tolerated. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 David Critchley, 2 Eliane Fuseau, 1 Carlos Perdomo, and 1 Santiago Arroyo ( 1 Eisai Global Clinical Development, Ridgefield Park, NJ ; and 2 EMF Consulting, Aix en Provence, France ) Rationale: The objective of this study was to characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and dose-response relationships of rufinamide as adjunctive therapy in patients with inadequately controlled seizures associated with ennox Gastaut syndrome. Methods: Pharmacokinetic and PD data were collected from rufinamide-treated and placebo patients participating in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group 84-day study. Blood samples were collected to determine rufinamide plasma levels at Visits 4 and 6 (Days 28 and 84) of treatment, or when a patient was discontinued from the trial. Adverse events (AEs) reported by ≥10% of patients in either treatment group were considered for the analysis. For population PK and PK/PD analyses, non-linear mixed effects modeling (NONMEM) was used with first-order estimation and first-order conditional estimation methods. Rufinamide efficacy variables were based on the total seizure frequency and tonic-atonic seizure frequency as indicated in a seizure diary. Results: A total of 65 patients were included in the PK analysis and 129 in the PK/PD analysis. PK data were described by a 1-compartment model. Clearance (CL) increased linearly with increased body surface area independent of patient age, sex, or race. Apparent CL in adults was 6.65 L/h, adolescents 4.51 L/h, and children 2.77 L/h, and was unaffected by liver and kidney function. In general, children had a higher average steady-state concentration (Cavss) than adolescents and adults due to a lower rufinamide CL and higher administered dose per kilogram. Rufinamide bioavailability decreased with increasing doses. Of the coadministered antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) analyzed (lamotrigine, topiramate, and valproate), only valproate significantly affected rufinamide CL, producing a 40% increase in rufinamide Cavss in children and 11% increase in adults. Log-transformed total seizure frequency and tonic-atonic frequency were shown to decrease proportionally with increasing rufinamide concentrations. These relationships were not affected by concomitant treatment with valproate, lamotrigine, clonazepam, or topiramate or patient baseline characteristics. Rufinamide significantly improved the global evaluation of seizure severity, in a concentration-dependent manner. None of the concomitant AEDs or other covariates evaluated affected the PK/PD relationship. Rufinamide exposure had no relationship to AEs occurring in ≥10% of the patients in either treatment group. Conclusions: Rufinamide oral bioavailability decreased with increasing doses, and CL was proportional to body surface area. Coadministration of valproate led to a moderate reduction in rufinamide CL, but lamotrigine and topiramate did not affect this parameter. Rufinamide efficacy was linearly related to concentration, but the frequency of AEs was unaffected. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 Nihal C. De Lanerolle, 2 Tih-Shih W. Lee, and 3 Shrikant Mane ( 1 Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 2 Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; and 3 Keck Biotechnology Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Levetiracetam is an anticonvulsant whose action is reported to be through the selective and high affinity binding to a protein called SV2A, which is involved in synaptic vesicle function (PNAS 2004, 101:9861?9866). SV2 is a glycoprotein present in all neural cells and occurs in 3 isoforms ? SV2A, SV2B and SV2C. The SV2 synaptic vesicle proteins are structurally similar to vesicular transporters for neurotransmitters. Levetiracetam is of mixed effectiveness in the treatment of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). This study looks at the expression of the synaptic vesicle protein SV2 genes and well as genes for several other proteins involved in the synaptic vesicle cycle (Annu.Rev. Neurosci. 2004, 27: 509?47) to assess the potential effectiveness of this drug at hippocampal seizure foci in TLE patients Methods: Hippocampi surgically removed from patients for the control of medically intractable seizures were used in this study. Hippocampi with mesial sclerosis (MTLE) were compared to those without sclerosis from patients with extrahippocampal temporal mass lesions (MaTLE) and with no clear etiology (PTLE). Gene expression patterns in the two groups were compared for hippocampal area CA2/CA1 using DNA microarray analysis and the Affymetrix platform with GeneChip U133A. The expression patterns of the SV2 proteins (A.B. and C) as well as synaptic cycle proteins Synapsins, Synaptogyrins, Synaptogamins, Synaptobrevins, Synaptophysins, Rab proteins, RIM proteins, SCAMPs and SVOP were comared among others. Results: The comparisons showed that there were significantly reduced expression levels of SV2A and SV2B in the sclerotic hippocampi of the MTLE group compared non-sclerotic hippocampi. The levels of SV2C were undetectable as expected of this minor isoform in the brain. The majority of the other proteins were also reduced or undetectable. Conclusions: The reduction of the SV2 and other synaptic vesicle cycle proteins in area CA1 of MTLE hippocampi may reflect the significant neuronal loss in this region of this patient group. Hippocampal sclerosis is the hallmark of the pathology of this patient group, and in the absence of the necessary mechanism for the action of this drug, may suggest that it may be of limited efficacy for this subtype of TLE. However, for PTLE and MaTLE patients, where synaptic vesicle proteins are unaffected, Levetiracetam may be expected to be useful. (Supported by NS048434.) 1 Sylvie Di Nicola, 2 Patricia R. Grossman, 3 Amie Joyce, and 3 Daniel A. Ollendorf ( 1 Ariane II, Transiciel, Brussels, Belgium ; 2 Global Health Outcomes Research, UCB Pharma, Smyrna, GA ; and 3 Health Outcomes, Pharmetrics, Watertown, MA ) Rationale: To investigate healthcare utilization, costs and compare the incidence of adverse events (AEs) in commercially-insured epileptic patients initiating levetiracetam (LEV) or gabapentin (GBP). Methods: A retrospective cohort analysis of patients diagnosed with epilepsy was conducted using a large US medical and pharmaceutical claims database (July 2001 - December 2003). Patients without any LEV or GBP prescription during a 6-month baseline period were classified into mutually exclusive treatment groups based on their first LEV or GBP medication prescription. Patients were followed for a total of 12-months with a minimum 3-month duration required. GBP patients were matched on a 1:1 basis to LEV patients by clinical characteristics, seizure and therapy types. Utilization and cost were analyzed using the non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test while risk of AEs was assessed using Cox proportional hazards models. Results: Treatment groups (n = 816 each) were comparable: mean age ?39 years, ?63% women, 64% generalized seizures, 65% adjunctive therapy. Patients received more prescriptions for LEV compared to GBP (mean/patient/year: 8.3 vs 6.0, p < 0.001), which generated higher LEV pharmacy costs ($1,319 vs $648, p < 0.001). Healthcare utilization was significantly lower in LEV patients than in GBP patients for physician office visits (18.1 vs 20.8, p < 0.01), emergency-room visits (8.5 vs 11.0, p < 0.01), other outpatient visits (35.7 vs 40.6, p < 0.05) and medications other than anti-epileptics (24.4 vs 36.5, p < 0.001). Less utilization translated into significantly less cost in favor of LEV for emergency-room visits ($880 vs $1,094, p < 0.01) and medications other than anti-epileptics ($1,995 vs $2,396, p < 0.001). Although the difference did not reach statistical significance, GBP showed higher costs than LEV for hospitalizations ($11,189 vs $8,275) and overall costs (i.e., total pharmacy, outpatient and inpatient costs: $24,001 vs $22,432). The percentage of patients free of any AE during follow-up was significantly higher for LEV than for GBP (38% vs 29%, p < 0.001). Median time to first AE was longer for LEV than for GBP (42 vs 28 days). The hazard ratio for the time to first AE (LEV vs GBP) was 0.76 (95% CI: 0.68?0.86; p < 0.001). Conclusions: In a commercially-insured setting, treatment for epilepsy with LEV was associated with significantly less utilization and costs of common healthcare services than GBP. Rate and risk of AEs were lower in LEV compared to GBP. Data suggest better adherence to LEV compared to GBP treatment. These differences may suggest that use of LEV could lead to cost control. (Supported by UCB Pharma S.A.) 1 Siegward M. Elsas, 1 Carole-Anne Randall-Stitt, 1 Mohr Claudia, 1 Adriana Andrade, 1 David J. Rossi, and 1 Amala Soumyanath ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR ) Rationale: Botanicals such as valerian and passionflower are commonly used by epilepsy patients and may have some anticonvulsant effects. In mouse models, Passiflora extracts have been shown to have anxiolytic effects and inhibit pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizures. Active ingredients are presumed to be flavonoids. Many flavonoids interact with benzodiazepine receptors, and the flavonoids chrysin and hispiduline have been found to inhibit PTZ-induced seizures in rodent models. Methods: The flavonoid content of commercial extracts from Passiflora incarnata whole herb was analyzed by thin layer chromatography (TLC) and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The WSP2 strain of mice, which are genetically prone to handling-induced convulsions (HIC), was used to test for anticonvulsant effects of the extracts. HIC were assessed at 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours and 4 hours after a single i.p. injection. The effects of the extracts on GABAergic neurotransmission were examined with voltage-clamp recordings from CA1 pyramidal cells in acutely prepared rat hippocampal slices in the presence of the glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenic acid (1 mM). Results: A total of 14 different flavonoid peaks were detected with a total flavonoid content of 2.7% in one of the extracts. Handling-induced convulsions in WSP2 mice were inhibited at a dosage of 1000 mg/kg of whole Passiflora extract beginning 30 minutes to 1 hour after i.p. injection. Application of Passiflora extract to hippocampal slices generated inhibitory currents in voltage-clamped (Vh = -30mV) CA1 pyramidal cells in a dose dependent fashion beginning at 100?g/ml. The extract induced inhibitory current was abolished by application of the GABAA receptor selective antagonist, GABAzine (20 ?M). Conclusions: Whole Passiflora extracts show anticonvulsant action in seizure-prone WSP2 mice, and induce a GABAA receptor-mediated current in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. If, as presumed, flavonoids are the active ingredient of Passiflora, the dosages of 1000 mg/kg in WSP2 mice and of 100 ?g/ml in hippocampal slices would correspond to 27 mg/kg and 2.7 ?g/ml of flavonoids which would be pharmacologically relevant. Further studies are needed to determine the actual active ingredients and pharmacological mechanisms and to evaluate any potential clinical significance of these findings. (Supported by fellowships to SME and AS from the NIH/NCCAM funded Oregon Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine in Neurological Disorders, a fellowship to DJR from the Burroughs Wellcome Fund, and by a K23 grant to SME by NIH NCCAM. Passiflora extracts were kindly provided by Oregon's Wild Harvest, Sandy, Oregon/USA and by Weleda Inc., Arlesheim/Switzerland. WSP2 mice were kindly provided by the laboratory of J. Crabbe, PhD at the VAMC and Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon.) 1 Pamela L. Ferguson, 2 Gigi Smith, and 1 Anbesaw W. Selassie ( 1 Biostatistics, Bioinformatics,  and 2 Department of Neurology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC ) Rationale: The goal of antiepileptic therapy is no seizures and no side effects. Monotherapy is the standard to try to achieve this. Many of the newer antiepileptic medications appear better tolerated with fewer side effects but are costly. People with refractory epilepsy have experienced improved seizure control and quality of life when converted from polypharmacy without worsening of their seizures. Methods: We utilized a dataset of all 2001  and 2 Eisai Global Clinical Development, Ridgefield Park, NJ ) Rationale: To evaluate the potential effect of rufinamide on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of 6 concomitantly administered antiepileptic drugs (AEDs): carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, topiramate, and valproate. Methods: Data were analyzed from 5 multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group studies of pediatric and adult patients with inadequately controlled seizures treated with 1 to 3 AEDs. Rufinamide or placebo treatment duration varied from 39 to 140 days, according to study, with baseline periods from 28 days to 3 months. Dosages of concomitant AEDs were kept constant from baseline throughout the duration of each study. Blood samples to measure concomitant AED concentrations were collected before, during, and after treatment with rufinamide or placebo. Data were standardized across all studies and pooled to produce a single data set. Population PK analysis used non-linear mixed effect modeling (NONMEM). The clearance of a linear PK model was estimated for each AED; age was used as the scaling factor to adjust clearance among children, adolescents, and adults for carbamazepine, topiramate, and valproate, and weight was used as the scaling factor for lamotrigine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin. Results: Six populations of rufinamide patients with concomitant AEDs were analyzed: (1) carbamazepine, n = 903, median age 32.3 years (range 3.9?68.8 y); (2) lamotrigine, n = 200, median age 22.7 years (range 4.7?68.5 y); (3) phenobarbital, n = 149, median age 34.5 years (range 4.3?62.6 y); (4) phenytoin, n = 299, median age 34.4 years (range 4.5?72.3 y); (5) topiramate, n = 69, median age 15.6 years (range 4.1?53.7 y); (6) valproate, n = 488, median age 27.2 years (range 4.3?68.6 y). The clearance of topiramate and valproate was not modified by rufinamide. The clearance of carbamazepine and lamotrigine was increased and the clearance of phenobarbital and phenytoin was decreased as a function of rufinamide plasma concentration. Rufinamide-induced changes in AED clearance were similar across age groups. At a rufinamide plasma concentration of 15 ?g/mL (representing the average steady-state concentration in a typical patient at doses of 45 mg/kg per day in children and 3200 mg/d in adults), the percent change in AED clearance was less than 18% of values without rufinamide. None of the clearance changes for the concurrent AEDs would result in changes of steady-state AED concentrations greater than 21% in typical subjects. Conclusions: The magnitude of rufinamide effects on the PK parameters of concomitantly administered AEDs is unlikely to be of clinical significance. The effect of rufinamide on clearance of carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin did not differ with age. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 Patricia Grossman, 2 Sylvie Di Nicola, 3 Amie Joyce, and 3 Daniel Ollendorf ( 1 Global Health Outcomes Research, UCB Pharma, Smyrna, GA ; 2 Ariane II, Transiciel, Brussels, Belgium ; and 3 Health Outcomes, PharMetrics, Watertown, MA ) Rationale: Use of antiepileptic drug (AED) monotherapy to achieve seizure control is a desirable goal in epilepsy management. AED monotherapy may diminish the exposure risk of drug-drug interactions resulting in decreased healthcare utilization and costs of epileptic patients. Levetiracetam (LEV) is an effective, well-tolerated, novel AED indicated for use as adjunctive therapy in partial onset seizures in adults with epilepsy. There has been interest in using LEV as monotherapy for epilepsy. Clinical studies are ongoing to ascertain LEVs' efficacy and safety. The objective of this study was to compare, in a claims database, healthcare utilization and costs between LEV and a classical first generation AED, phenytoin (PHT), when prescribed as monotherapy to epileptic patients. Methods: Analyses were conducted using a large US medical and pharmaceutical claims database. Patients diagnosed with epilepsy newly started on PHT or LEV monotherapy between July 2001 and December 2003 were selected. A 6-month baseline period with no claim for PHT or LEV and a minimum 3-month follow-up were required. PHT patients were matched on a 1:1 basis to LEV patients with similar characteristics. Healthcare utilization (inpatient, outpatient, and pharmacy) and associated costs were collected for each patient and annualized. Mean utilization and costs per patient were then compared between treatment groups using non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum tests. Results: LEV and PHT monotherapy patients (n = 348 in each group) had similar characteristics: mean age ?36 years, ?42% men, 37% partial seizures. LEV monotherapy patients showed statistically significantly lower annual mean healthcare utilization than PHT monotherapy patients for emergency-room visits (7.87 vs 11.21, p < 0.01), EEGs (0.87 vs 1.13, p < 0.01), CT scans (0.35 vs 0.71, p < 0.001), magnetic nuclear resonance (0.59 vs 0.97, p < 0.01), AED monitoring (0.47 vs 3.43, p < 0.001), hematologic function tests (3.12 vs 3.78, p < 0.01), hepatic function tests (0.96 vs 1.60, p < 0.001) and hospitalizations (0.34 vs 0.64, p < 0.01). Generally, decreased resource utilization translated into less cost per patient. While total pharmacy costs were higher for LEV ($2,841 vs $2,054, p < 0.001), given higher drug cost for LEV, other healthcare costs were less for LEV (total outpatient: $7,784 vs $8,440, ns; hospitalizations: $5,306 vs $11,857, p < 0.05). Overall costs (pharmacy, outpatient and hospitalizations) were lower for LEV ($15,931 vs $22,351, ns). Conclusions: This study shows that most outpatient and inpatient resource utilization and costs were significantly lower for LEV monotherapy patients than for PHT monotherapy patients. When comparing LEV with a classic first generation AED, healthcare providers should consider all healthcare utilization and costs and not just direct pharmacy costs. (Supported by UCB Pharma.) 1 Mary C. Gustafson, 2,3 Patricia E. Penovich, and 2,4 Michael D. Frost ( 1 Pharmacy, Childrens Hospitals of Minnesota and United Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; 2 Epilepsy, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, P.A., St. Paul, MN ; 3 Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ; and 4 Neurology and Pediatrics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Rectal administration of AEDs offers a beneficial route of administration for patients who are unable to take medications orally and an IV route is not available. To date, no case reports of rectal administration of levetiracetam (LEV) have been published. The purpose of our review is to report our findings on rectal absorption of LEV in an adult and a pediatric patient. Methods: Inpatient charts for both patients were retrospectively reviewed for LEV dosing, LEV concentrations, administration procedures, weight and complications. LEV concentrations were analyzed by MedTox Labs, MN for Case 1 and Mayo Labs, MN for Case 2. Results: CASE 1: 56 yr old male in the ICU for frequent seizures was intubated and receiving medications IV or via feeding tube. LEV on admission was 1500mg per tube BID at 0800, 2200; trough level (16.8 mg/L). LEV was increased to 2000mg BID on Day 2. Beginning on day 8, due to poor tolerance of tube feedings, LEV was administered rectally at the same dose for 8 days. A series of 6 LEV levels was obtained surrounding the first rectal dose at -1, 1, 2, 3, 6 and 11 hours post administration. Results as follows: 36.8 mg/L, 42.6 mg/L, 36.1 mg/L, 35.6 mg/L, 31.5 mg/L, 25.1 mg/L, respectively. A trough level prior to the 4th dose of rectal LEV was 16.4 mg/L. LEV administration was changed back to feeding tube administration 2000mg BID with one steady state trough LEV level obtained (49.5 mg/L, Day 27). Another steady state trough level on 1750mg BID per feeding tube was obtained on Day 55 (32.4 mg/L). LEV suspension was administered undiluted and the buttocks held for 30 minutes. No seepage was noted. Irritation could not be assessed. CASE 2: 16 month old male with uncontrolled focal seizures and multiple benzodiazepine loads was started on LEV 250mg (21 mg/kg) per rectum x1. A one hour post dose level was obtained (6.6 mg/L). LEV continued at 100mg (8.5 mg/kg) BID oral/rectal with doses 2 and 3 administered rectally. On 200mg (17 mg/kg) po BID, a steady state trough LEV = 4.5 mg/L. LEV suspension was administered undiluted and the buttocks held for 5 minutes. Seepage was questionable per RN after the first dose, but not identified with doses 2 or 3. Irritation could not be assessed. Conclusions: Levetiracetam was administered rectally in two patients. These data confirm that LEV is absorbed with rectal administration. However, steady state trough concentrations may be decreased more than 50% compared to feeding tube administration at the same dose. These preliminary data suggest a dosing ratio adjustment of approximately 2:1 for rectal administration of LEV may be necessary. 1 Gregory L. Holmes ( 1 Neurology, Darrtmouth Medical School, Lebanon, NH ) Rationale: Patients with epilepsy are at high risk for anxiety. Antiepileptic drugs that have antianxiety properties are highly desirable since both anxiety and epilepsy can be treated with a single drug. Clorazepate dipotassioum (Tranxene) is a prodrug that is converted to the active antiepileptic drug N-desmethyldiazepam. Clorazepate has been used since the mid 1960s as an antianxiety agent and as adjunctive therapy for management of partial seizures. The past few years has seen the introduction of eight new antiepileptic drugs and the vagal nerve stimulator. Whether clorazepate dipotassium continues to be useful in this new new era of antiepileptic therapy remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to re-examine the efficacy and safety of clorazepate in 2005. Methods: Medical records of 12 patients (mean age = 22.4 years) taking clorazepate dipotassium were retrospectively reviewed. Records were reviewed for patient's age, dose of clorazepate dipotassium, duration of treatment. efficacy, and side effects. Results: Clorazepate dipotassium was used to treat complex partial seizures in 7 patients, myoclonic seizures in 3 patients, and a mixed seizure disorder in 2 patients. Dosage varied from 0.5 to 3 mg/kg/day. Clorazepate dipotassium resulted in a seizure reduction of >50% in 8 of 12 (66.7%). In all 12 patients clorazepate dipotassium was well tolerated and felt to be a mood stabilizer in 6 of 12 (50%). Side effects were minimal, and when reported consisted primarily of letheragy. In 10 of 12 (83.3%) of patients clorazepate dipotassium was continued for > 1 year without development of tolerance. None of the patients were taken off clorazepate because of side effects. The drug was particularly useful in patients who complained of insomnia. Conclusions: Despite the introduction of many new antiepileptic drugs, clorazepate dipotassium (Tranxene) remains a very useful antiepileptic drug in patients with poorly controlled seizures. The antianxiety features of the drug makes this an appealing choice in patients who have the co-morbid condition of anxiety. Unlike other benzodiazepines, the drug has few adverse side effects. While tolerance can occur, it appears less commonly than with other benzodiazepines. Clorazepate dipotassium should be considered as potential therapy in patients with pharmacoresistant epilepsy and anxiety disorders. (Supported by Ovation Pharmaceuticals.) 2 Edward Rapp, 1 Damir Janigro, and 1 Luca Cucullo ( 1 Neurosurgery - NB20, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Flocel Inc., Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The blood?brain barrier (BBB) is formed by the endothelial cells lining the brain microvessels. Complex tight junctions linking adjacent endothelial cells make brain capillaries around 100 times tighter than peripheral capillaries to small hydrophilic molecules. As a result, drugs required to act in the brain, including antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), have generally been made lipophilic, able to cross the brain endothelium via the lipid membranes. However, such lipophilic drugs are potential substrates for efflux carriers of the BBB which are known to be over-expressed in epileptic brain. We have tested the predictive ability of a new BBB model based on co-culture of C6 rat glioma and bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC) differentiated in a BBB phenotype under dynamic conditions (DIV-BBB). We also compared the permeation properties in this model against a widely used static transwell system. Methods: BAEC and C6 were grown in DMEM medium. In the DIV-BBB cells were co-cultured for 14 days using polypropylene hollow fibers inside a sealed chamber (the?extraluminal space?) accessible by ports. A variable-speed pulsatile pump generates flow from the medium source through the capillary bundle allowing diffusion of nutrients out to the extra luminal space (ECS) through the 0.64 mM trans-capillary pores. Metabolic products are similarly removed. In parallel experiments, static BBB co-cultures were established in Transwell apparati. Permeability to a highly polar molecule (3H sucrose) and a widely used AED (14C Phenytoin) were measured. A similar experiment was performed after osmotic opening of the BBB with intraluminal mannitol. Transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) was measured to assess the barrier integrity during the establishment on the BBB and during the course of the experiments. Results: The TEER values in the DIV-BBB were on average >800 Ohm cm2, against a value of 40 in Transwells. The average sucrose permeability measured in 3 independent experiments was 5.5 x10?6 cm/sec in the DIV-BBB against 8.2 x10?5 cm/sec in the Transwell system (p < 0.05). Phenytoin permeability was on average 1.4 x10?5 cm/sec in the DIV-BBB and 7.8 x10?5 cm/sec in the Transwell model. Osmotic opening of the BBB by hyperosmolar injection of mannitol lead to a 1000x increase in both sucrose and Phenytoin permeability in the DIV-BBB. Conclusions: These results demonstrate that the DIV-BBB recapitulates some of the crucial characteristics of the in situ BBB, including tightness (high TEER), and selective permeability. Drug screening by traditional Transwell methods may give false permeability values, in particular for drugs that are poorly permeant across the BBB. Additional experiments with human cell isolated from drug resistant epileptics will further help characterize the utility of this model for CNS drug delivery studies. (Supported by NIH-2RO1 HL51614, NIH-RO1 NS 43284, NIH-RO1 NS38195 to Damir Janigro.) 1 Susan P. Kerls, 1 Alain Vuong, 1 Anne E. Hammer, and 1 John A. Messenheimer ( 1 Neurology, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Change in body weight is a common side effect of treatment with some antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). AED therapy can yield both significant weight gain or weight loss depending upon the choice of AED. Ideally, treatment with an AED should have no impact on body weight. The objective of this analysis was to evaluate the effects of lamotrigine (LAMICTAL?, LTG) as adjunctive therapy on body weight in patients with primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures. Methods: Patients with a diagnosis of epilepsy with PGTC seizures who were receiving 1 or 2 AEDs at study entry were eligible. Patients with partial seizures were excluded on the basis of seizure history and screening electroencephalograms. There were three study phases: Baseline; Escalation, during which study drug was titrated to a target dose (12 weeks for patients 2?12 years, 7 weeks for patients >12 years); Maintenance, during which doses of study drug and concomitant AEDs were maintained for 12 weeks. Body weight was measured at Baseline and at the end of the Maintenance Phase and was analyzed with descriptive statistics. Results: A total of 117 (58 LTG, 59 placebo (PBO)) PGTC patients were randomized and received study drug. In the LTG group, 50% of the patients were male and the mean age was 27 years. Fifty-six (56) percent of the patients in the PBO group were male and the mean age was 25 years. Mean weight at study entry was 64.0kg in the LTG group and 69.1kg in the PBO group. Efficacy results showed a significant reduction of PGTC seizures with LTG. The median reduction from Baseline in PGTC seizures was 82% in the LTG group and 43% in the PBO group during the Maintenance Phase (p = 0.006). The mean and median change from Baseline in body weight to the end of the Maintenance Phase in the LTG group was 0.4kg (SD = 3.5) and 0.0kg, respectively. In the PBO group, the mean and median change from Baseline in body weight to the end of the Maintenance Phase was 1.7kg (SD = 5.1) and 0.2kg, respectively. These results are similar to a previously reported study in patients with partial and generalized seizures (Biton et al., Neurology 2001). In that study, the mean weight gain from Baseline to the end of the Treatment Phase in the LTG treatment group was 1.3lb (SD = 11.9), with 29% of the LTG patients being seizure-free. Conclusions: The results from this study, combined with those reported previously, show that LTG monotherapy and adjunctive therapy are associated with stable body weight in patients with either PGTC or partial seizures. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development.) 1 Karsten Krakow, 1 Sergej Benilow, and 1 Ulf Ziemann ( 1 Department of Neurology, J.W. Goethe-University, Frankfurt, Germany ) Rationale: We used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to study the effects of 7 antiepileptic drugs (AED) on associative long-term potentiation (LTP)-like plasticity and motor learning in eight healthy subjects. Methods: LTP was induced by paired associative stimulation and motor learning was investigated in a repeated thumb movement practice protocol. Single oral doses of the following AED were tested in a placebo-controlled double-blind cossover design: 20 mg of diazepam, 1100 mg of gabapentin, 300 mg of lamotrigin, 3000 mg of levetiracetam, 3600 mg of piracetam, 15 mg of tiagabine, and 100 mg of topiramate. Drugs were tested in separate sessions at least one week apart in pseudo-randomized and balanced order. Results: LTP-like plasticity was significantly depressed by those AED, which enhance gamma-butyric acid (GABA) dependent inhibition (tiagabine, diazepam, and in addition levetiracetam). Gabapentin showed a trend towards enhancement of LTP-like plasticity. The testing of effects of AED on motor learning is work in progress. Conclusions: The main finding is that associative LTP-like plasticity in human motor cortex is suppressed by levetiracetam, diazepam and tiagabine. The effects of diazepam and tiagabine are in agreement with the literature, which shows that increase of neurotransmission through the GABAA receptor results in reduction of LTP in rodent hippocampus and neocortex. The suppression of LTP-like plasticity by levetiracetam may also be attributed to its GABAergic mechanisms, which mainly occur through reversal of GABAA receptor inhibition by the negative allosteric modulators zinc and ß-carbolines. An alternative though not mutually exclusive explanation for the effect of levetiracetam is its capability of suppressing repetitive neuronal discharges in various models of epilepsy. A single TMS pulse over motor cortex results in a high-frequency repetitive discharge of corticomotoneuronal cells, which may be a requirement for LTP-like plasticity to develop. The lack of suppression of LTP-like plasticity by other modes of action, in particular the blockade of voltage-gated sodium channels, is in accordance with the animal literature. As a next step, the results of LTP modulation will be compared with the effects of AED on motor learning. Previous studies showed congruence of neuromodulatory effects on LTP and motor learning, suggesting that these two processes share common mechanisms. (Supported by UCB Pharma, Braine l'Alleud, Belgium.) 1 Gregory L. Krauss, 2 Carlos A. Perdomo, and 2 Santiago Arroyo ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; and 2 Eisai Global Clinical Development, Ridgefield Park, NJ ) Rationale: The present analysis, based on the pooled analysis of the adverse event (AE) reports from clinical studies, was conducted to evaluate the short- and long-term safety of rufinamide in patients with epilepsy. Methods: Safety data was derived from 12 double-blind, placebo-controlled studies and 12 controlled or open-label studies of rufinamide for short- and long-term therapy, respectively. Analysis was performed on patients with epilepsy who received ≥1 doses of study drug. Adverse events were analyzed using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities and were presented by system organ class (SOC). Common AEs that occurred in ≥10% of patients were identified. Time to onset of common AEs was evaluated in double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Results: The short-term safety of rufinamide versus placebo was evaluated in 1240 rufinamide-treated patients and 635 placebo patients (mean ages, 31.7 and 28.6 y, respectively) who had a median duration of exposure of 2.8 and 3.0 months, respectively. The mean dose of rufinamide was 1373 mg/d. The most frequently reported AEs for rufinamide versus placebo patients included headache (22.9% vs 18.9%), dizziness (15.5% vs 9.4%), fatigue (13.6% vs 9.0%), somnolence (11.8% vs 9.1%), and nausea (11.4% vs 7.6%). The time to onset of these AEs was comparable between the groups and suggested an early onset with quick resolution. Serious AEs occurred in 6.3% of rufinamide-treated and 3.9% of placebo patients, with epilepsy-related events such as convulsions the most commonly reported. A higher percentage of patients in the rufinamide group (8.1%) than the placebo group (4.3%) discontinued treatment due to AEs. Rufinamide as long-term therapy was assessed in 1978 patients (mean age, 31.3 y) in controlled or open studies of <1 month to >4 years in duration; 47% of patients were given the drug for ≥12 months. Mean daily dose of rufinamide was 1700 mg/d (maximum daily dose, 7200 mg/d). Adverse events occurred most commonly within the SOCs of the nervous system (64.7%) and gastrointestinal disorders (42.3%). The most frequently reported AEs with long-term follow-up were headache (29.5%), dizziness (22.5%), and fatigue (17.7%); 13.1% of patients discontinued rufinamide due to AEs. Serious AEs were reported in 13.2% of patients; convulsion, status epilepticus, and pneumonia were the most common. The rates of AEs generally increased as the median dose of rufinamide increased. The differences by dose may be confounded by the duration of treatment, since patients who were given higher doses were treated at those doses for longer periods of time. Conclusions: Rufinamide was well tolerated in over 1000 patients with epilepsy. The time frame of common AEs suggested an early onset of events with rapid resolution. In the long term, rufinamide was safe and well tolerated in a large population of patients with epilepsy. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 Greg Kricorian, and 2 Jeffrey Debs ( 1 Medical Affairs, Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Costa Mesa, CA ; and 2 College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Diastat? (diazepam rectal gel), a seizure rescue medication that can be administered by nonmedical caregivers without the need for hospitalization, is currently provided in fixed unit-dose devices. However, a new delivery system (AcuDial?) that features a prefilled, adjustable-dose device will meet the diverse dosage needs of individual patients via a single delivery system. Once the prescribed dose has been set or ?dialed in? by a pharmacist, the device is locked to prevent further changes. The purpose of this study was to measure the ability of pharmacy staff to understand dose-setting and syringe-locking instructions affixed to the new delivery system and to properly fill a new diazepam rectal gel prescription. Methods: Participants were selected by pharmacy managers from Southern California retail pharmacy locations to test their ability to properly fill a prescription for the new diazepam rectal gel delivery system (12.5 mg dose). Selected pharmacists or technicians were provided with a delivery system twin pack and a field study sheet with instructions on preparing the prescription and dispensing the materials. All study materials were collected after the prescription was filled. Results were scored in 3 categories: prescription filled correctly (correct adjustment to prescribed dose and locking of both syringes), prescription filled incorrectly (failure to adjust to prescribed dose and/or lock both syringes), and unable to dispense (incomplete syringe dose setting or locking of syringe, but would not have dispensed without consulting the manufacturer or pharmacy manager). Unable to dispense is not considered a test failure. Results: The field study participants were 50 pharmacy staff members (pharmacists, n = 26; pharmacy technicians, n = 23; intern, n = 1) at 26 Vons retail pharmacies located in 3 Southern California counties (Orange, Riverside, and San Diego Counties). Of the 50 participants, 46 filled the prescription with no errors, 2 filled the prescription incorrectly, and 2 were unable to dispense. The overall number of properly filled prescriptions was 46/48 (96%). The 2 dispensing errors involved the final locking of the syringes at 1 pharmacy and failure to prepare the second syringe in the twin pack at another pharmacy. Conclusions: The high overall success rate demonstrates that pharmacy staff can follow dose-setting and syringe-locking instructions to properly fill a prescription for diazepam rectal gel dispensed via the new delivery system. (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Kevin McCague, 1 Monique Somogyi, and 1 Stefan Schwabe ( 1 US Clinical Development  1 study: 2100 mg/day), 2 were dose-controlled studies (300 and 2400 mg/day), and 1 was a regimen-controlled study (2700 mg/day BID vs TID). The duration of the double-blind period for the studies ranged from 12 to 60 weeks. Responder rates (seizure free, ≥75% and ≥50% reduction in seizure frequency) through 3 months, 6 months and 1 year were analyzed for the intent to treat (ITT) population and patients who completed 1 year of therapy (completers). The placebo-controlled study and 2 dose-controlled studies were not included in the completer analysis since the duration of these studies was less than 1 year. Within each population, newly diagnosed and refractory subgroups were analyzed separately. Results: A total of 674 patients were included in the ITT analysis: 343 newly diagnosed and 331 refractory patients. Of the 286 completers, 208 were newly diagnosed and 78 were refractory patients. For the ITT population, the mean baseline seizure rate was 4.2 seizures/28 days for the newly diagnosed patients and 8.7 seizures/28 days for the refractory. For the completers, the mean baseline rate was 3.4 and 2.4 seizures/28 days for the newly diagnosed and refractory, respectively. Response rates for the newly diagnosed and refractory patients are presented below: Percent of patients seizure-free through 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year ITT population n = 674 Completers n = 286 Newly ?diagnosed ?n = 343 ?Refractory ?n = 331 Newly ?diagnosed ?n = 208 ?Refractory ?n = 78 3 months 62.8 11.5 69.2 29.5 6 months 56.4 ?9.7 61.1 23.1 1 year 52.5 ?7.9 55.8 16.7 Conclusions: Collectively, the results of this meta-analysis suggest that a sizeable proportion of patients with partial seizures become seizure-free after 3 months of oxcarbazepine monotherapy. Furthermore, newly diagnosed patients who become seizure-free tend to remain seizure-free over the long-term with continued oxcarbazepine monotherapy. (Supported by Novartis Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Scott Mintzer, 2 Jeanne Toguri, 2 Prashanthi Boppana, and 3 Anthony DeSantis ( 1 Department of Neurology, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA ; 2 Department of Neurology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL ; and 3 Department of Medicine (Endocrinology), Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Evidence suggests that certain antiepileptic drugs (AED), particularly cytochrome P450 inducers, may decrease serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D (25-OH-D) and increase bone turnover. We sought to determine whether 25-OH-D levels and bone turnover are affected by treatment with carbamazepine (CBZ) or the similar newer AED oxcarbazepine (OXC). Methods: We measured 25-OH-D serum levels, serum parathormone (PTH) levels, and several biochemical markers of bone turnover, including serum osteocalcin (OSCL), serum bone alkaline phosphatase (BAP), and urinary crosslinked N-telopeptides of type I collagen (NTX) in normal adult controls (n = 24) and adult epilepsy patients taking either CBZ (n = 22) or OXC (n = 24) in monotherapy for over 8 weeks. CBZ patients were then switched overnight in a 2:3 ratio to OXC monotherapy, and after 6 weeks the same tests were repeated. Results: 25-OH-D levels were lower in each drug-treated group (OXC 19.4 ± 2.3pg/ml, CBZ 20.4 ± 2.4) than in the controls (27.5 ± 2.8) (ANOVA, p = 0.052). Post-tests showed significance for the comparison of OXC to controls (p < 0.05). PTH values in the OXC (55.6 ± 6.5pg/ml) and CBZ groups (55.6 ± 6.2) were higher than in controls (45.7 ± 4.7), though not significantly (p > 0.1). BAP levels were somewhat higher, and NTX levels lower, in the OXC and CBZ groups compared to controls, but without significance (p > 0.05). OSCL levels were somewhat elevated in the OXC group (2.79 ± 0.47ng/ml) and more clearly elevated in the CBZ group (3.63 ± 0.36) compared to controls (2.38 ± 0.41), with the overall comparison being significant (p < 0.05) and the post-tests showing some significance in the comparison between CBZ and control groups (p = 0.053). Because all of the data (except OSCL) were so similar between OXC and CBZ groups, they were combined to increase statistical power. The combined drug treatment group had significantly higher BAP (p = 0.02) and significantly lower 25-OH-D (p = 0.015) than controls. The latter effect was signficant even after accounting for the confounding effects of age on 25-OH-D levels (p < 0.05). No differences were found in the CBZ patients before and after switch to OXC. Conclusions: Epilepsy patients taking OXC or CBZ have significantly lower 25-OH-D and significantly higher bone turnover (as measured by BAP) than do normal controls. These patients are likely to be at risk for long term bone loss. Our data cannot exclude the possibilty that this is a function of the disease rather than the treatment, though data from other studies suggests this is unlikely. Pending further investigations, it may be prudent for patients on CBZ or OXC to be co-administered high-dose 25-OH-D replacement. (Supported by Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation.) 1 James Layne Moore ( 1 Neurology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Though important factors in the success of treatment for epilepsy, both medication satisfaction and medication preference as indicated by the patient, parent (in the case of adolescents), and physician are frequently not adequately measured in traditional clinical trials. Through increased medication compliance, both satisfaction and preference can play a role in disease outcome. In this study, medication satisfaction and preference instruments were used to derive data from subjects switched from immediate-release carbamazepine (IR-CBZ) to an equal total daily dose of Carbatrol? extended-release capsules (CBZ-ERC) at a minimum of 400 mg/d Methods: At baseline, eligible and enrolled subjects were switched from their current IR-CBZ product to an equal total daily dose of CBZ-ERC. Grounds for exclusion from this multicenter study included: known history of generalized tonic-clonic status epilepticus or epilepsy syndrome that may potentially worsen with carbamazepine treatment, progressive neurological disorder, receiving more than 1 additional antiepileptic drug or any type of neuroleptic drug, or CBZ-ERC treatment within 90 days of study screening. Data from 358 patients with epilepsy were collected, as well as data from 391 physicians, and 33 parents (of adolescent study participants). Assessment was performed at baseline (month 0) and month 3 using medication satisfaction and preference instruments. Medication satisfaction, preference and compliance instruments used in this study were questionnaires designed to evaluated the acceptability of Carbatrol? versus the previous IR-CBZ treatment regimen. Separate questionnaires were designed for, and completed by, patients, parents, and physicians. Satisfaction questionnaires used a 6-point scale with answers ranging from ?strongly agree? to ?strongly disagree, ?while preference questionnaires used 3 answer categories: ? prefer new medication, ?? prefer previous medication, ? and ? equal preference.? Results: Results of medication satisfaction and preference instruments at month 3 from patients switched from IR-CBZ to CBZ-ERC showed improvements in every variable queried. Overall, 78.8% of both patients and parents (of adolescent patients), as well as 86.4% of physicians preferred CBZ-ERC to previous IR-CBZ medications. Patient responses also indicated that compared to 38.7% at baseline (IR-CBZ), 58.6% of patients ?strongly agree? that they rarely skip or miss a dose of their medication (with CBZ-ERC). Conclusions: Results indicate that according to patients, parents (of Adolescent study participants), and physicians, CBZ-ERC is preferred to IR-CBZ for the treatment of partial-onset epilepsy resulting in improved compliance. (Supported by Shirev 1 Astrid Nehlig, 1 Marie-Aude Rigoulot, and 1 Any Boehrer ( 1 INSERM U 666, Faculty of Medicine, Strasbourg, France ) Rationale: The models of genetically determined generalized epilepsy have been extensively used to determine the anticonvulsant properties of drugs. In the present work, we report the effects of a new drug in development, RWJ 333369 in the genetic model of non-convulsive absence epilepsy, the GAERS (Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rat from Strasbourg) and in the genetic model of sound-induced convulsive seizures, the audiogenic Wistar AS rat. In GAERS, absence seizures are accompanied by the occurrence of spike-and-wave discharges (SWDs) on the EEG. In Wistar AS, the exposure to an intense sound stimulus induces one or two wild running and bouncing episodes followed by a tonic seizure and a prolonged catatonic state Methods: GAERS were equipped with four cortical electrodes over the fronto-parietal cortex and the duration of SWDs on the EEG was recorded in groups of eight rats for periods of 20 to 120 min after the injection of 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg RWJ 333369 i.p. In Wistar AS, the occurrence of, latency to and duration of one or two wild running episodes and the tonic seizure were recorded in groups of eight rats at 60 min after the injection of 10 or 30 mg/kg RWJ 333369. Results: In GAERS, RWJ 333369 dose-dependently reduced the expression of SWDs. The lower 10 mg/kg dose had no significant effect. At 30 mg/kg, SWDs were completely attenuated between 40 and 60 min and the duration of SWDs was reduced by 72% at 80 min, but returned to control levels by 100 min. At 60 mg/kg, SWDs were completely attenuated from 40 to 120 min. In Wistar AS, RWJ 333369 at 10 mg/kg increased the latency to the first running episode by 266% and its duration by 160% in 7 out of 8 rats, and induced the occurrence of a second running episode in 3 out of 8 rats. This second running episode, which was not present in control rats, is indicative of a decrease in sensitivity of the rats to the auditory stimulus. The 10 mg/kg dose of RWJ 333369 also increased the latency to the tonic seizure by 327% in 6 of the 8 studied rats that experienced these seizures, and one out of 8 rats exhibited no wild running and no seizure. At 30 mg/kg, RWJ 333369 suppressed the expression of all seizure-related behaviors in all rats. Conclusions: The present results demonstrate that this novel drug, RWJ 333369, has potent and broad efficacy on primary generalized seizures of both the tonic reflex and the absence type in genetic models of epilepsy (Supported by Johnson  Department of Pharmacology, Xuan Wu Hospital, Capital University of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China; New England School of Acupuncture, Watertown, MA; and Departments of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Extracts of individual herbs are increasingly studied in vitro and in vivo for their anti-convulsant properties. However, in traditional Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine, herbs are often prescribed in combination for the management of seizures. Therefore, we undertook a systematic review to assess the scientific evidence supporting the use of herbal formulas for the treatment of epilepsy. Methods: A literature search was carried out in March 2005 using PubMed, Embase, PsychInfo, AltHealth from its inception to date. In addition, the Chinese Medicine Database, Korean Medical Database, and Korean Drug Research Information Center were retrieved, and the bibliographies of initially identified articles were also checked. The keywords used in the search were: (?Epilepsy? OR ?fit? OR ?seizure? OR ?anticonvulsant? OR ?antiepileptic?) AND (?plant? OR ?phyto*??herb*? OR ?Chinese medicine? OR ?Korean Medicine? OR ?Ayurvedic medicine? OR ?Kampo?). Any clinical studies, including case studies, reporting the results of treating epilepsy with herbal formulas were included for the systematic review after identification from two authors, who also extracted the data using a predefined form. All authors then reviewed the findings. The studies were categorized based on the combinations of herbs that herbal formulas reported. Results: A total of 71 studies met the inclusion criteria and were reviewed. There were three randomized controlled trials, 5 non-randomized controlled trials, 6 case control studies, and 57 observational studies including case reports. Rarely was the same herbal formula used in more than one study. Over 135 individual herbs were used singly or in various combinations in these investigations. Conclusions: Despite the significant number of published studies using herbal formulas for the treatment of epilepsy, evidence to support their use in patients with this disorder is lacking. Further research incorporating methodological rigor and consistent herbal formulas is warranted. 1 John M. Pellock, 2 Michael D. Privitera, 3 Renzo Guerrini, 4 Steven Wang, 4 Walter Neto, 4 Jeffrey S. Nye, 4 Roy Twyman, 5 Marjolein Lahaye, 5 Joop Van Oene, and INT 51/EPMN 105/EPMN 106 Investigators ( 1 Neurology and Pediatrics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, VA ; 2 Neurology, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ; 3 Child Neurology and Psychiatry, University of Pisa  4 Johnson  and 5 Janssen-Cilag, Tilburg, Netherlands ) Rationale: To identify an appropriate target dose and maintenance dose of topiramate (TPM) initiated as monotherapy in children and adults. Methods: Data were analyzed for 1,669 children and adults (≥2 yrs old) in 2 double-blind, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and in an open-label dose-optimization trial. In a dose-controlled RCT, patients were randomized to 50 or 400 mg/day and had to achieve at least 25 or 200 mg. A second RCT compared fixed dosages of 100 and 200 mg/day TPM with 600 mg carbamazepine (CBZ) and 1250 mg valproate (VPA) in patients with untreated epilepsy. TPM dosing in the open-label study was based on clinical response in order to achieve optimal effect (7 months follow-up). Results: In a dose-controlled RCT, a significant difference favoring the higher TPM dose was observed at 2 weeks when groups had been titrated to 25 or 100 mg TPM, suggesting that 100 mg is a potentially effective titration target. The study comparing antiepileptic drugs found that TPM (100 and 200) is at least as effective as CBZ and VPA. When open-label TPM was titrated with 100 mg/day as the target dose for initial evaluation of therapeutic response and subsequent adjustments for optimum response, the mean maintenance dosage at 7 months endpoint was 3.5 mg/kg/day in children and 150 mg/day in adults. The most common adverse events with TPM monotherapy in were paresthesia, headache, fatigue, appetite decrease, and somnolence. Conclusions: Topiramate is effective as initial therapy in children and adults with epilepsy. The data from RCTs and a dose-optimization study support the recommendation of 3 mg/kg/day in children or 100 mg/day in adults as an appropriate dose at which to evaluate the initial response when starting topiramate as monotherapy. (Supported by Johnson  2 Dept. of Neurology, Rikshospitalet, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ; 3 Clinical Pharmacology Unit, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy ; and 4 Neurosciences MDC US Clinical, GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development, Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: The objectives of the study were to evaluate the overall effectiveness, safety and tolerability of lamotrigine (LTG) and slow release carbamazepine (CBZ-r) in newly diagnosed elderly epilepsy patients for a 40 week period. Methods: The study used a randomised, double-blind, parallell-group design. Patients aged 65 years or older, who had experienced two or more unprovoked seizures (partial seizures, with/without secondary generalisation, or primary generalised tonic/clonic seizures) were included from five European countries. Excluded were subjects previously treated with any antiepileptic drug for more than 2 weeks in the 6 months prior to randomisation. The patients were randomised 1:1 to treatment with LTG or CBZ-r on a b.i.d. schedule. The dose was escalated over 4 weeks and then adjusted based on efficacy and adverse events. The initial, maintenance and maximum daily doses were 25mg, 100mg and 500mg of LTG, and 100mg, 400mg and 2000mg of CBZ-r, respectively. The duration of the maintenance phase was 36 weeks. Results: Of 184 randomised subjects 93 received LTG (46 males = 49%) and 91 received CBZ-r (56 males = 62%). Mean age was 74.3 years (SD6.2) vs. 73.1 years (SD5.5) in the two treatment groups, respectively. In the LTG group, 68 of 93 subjects completed the study (73%), compared to 61 of 91 (67%) in the CBZ-r group (p = 0.33). Time to first seizure was shorter in the LTG group in the Per Protocol analysis set (25% fractile in the survival curve: 8.4 weeks on LTG vs. 19.3 weeks on CBZ-r, p = 0.022); however the difference was not significant in the Intention to Treat (ITT) set, using the log-rank test. The proportion of seizure-free subjects in the 4 to 40 week treatment period, not accounting for subjects withdrawn before week 4, were 53 of 87 (61%) on LTG, and 68 of 90 (76%) on CBZ-r (p = 0.036). The number of subjects seizure-free from week 20 to week 40, after excluding from the analysis those who withdrew before week 20, was 53 of 75 (71%) for the LTG group and 59 of 69 (86%) for the CBZ group (p = 0.032). The number of individuals who experienced adverse events (AE) did not differ in the two groups. The number of AEs leading to stop permanently of the treatment was 23 (25%) on CBZ-r compared to 13 (14%) on LTG. There was no difference in AEs being judged to be related to the study drug by the investigator. Conclusions: With the treatment schedules investigated in this study, CBZ-r produced greater seizure-freedom rates, whereas LTG tended to be associated with lesser AE-related withdrawals. Retention on treatment was comparable in the two groups. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline (LAM 40089).) 1 Patricio Soares-da-Silva, 1 Luis Almeida, 1 Amilcar Falcao, and 1 Joana Maia ( 1 Research and Development, BIAL, S Mamede do Coronado, Porto, Portugal ) Rationale: Eslicarbazepine acetate is a novel voltage-gated sodium channel blocker in development for the treatment of epilepsy, bipolar disorder and neuropathic pain. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of age and gender on the pharmacokinetics of eslicarbazepine acetate. Methods: Single-centre, open-label, parallel-group study in 12 young (18?40 years) and 12 elderly (65 or over) healthy subjects. In each age group, 6 subjects were female and 6 were male. The study consisted of a single-dose (600 mg) period (Phase A) and a multiple-dose (600 mg, once-daily, for 8 days) period (Phase B), separated by 4 days. Results: Eslicarbazepine acetate was extensively metabolized to eslicarbazepine (S-licarbazepine), the main active metabolite. Plasma concentration-time profiles of eslicarbazepine following the single-dose of Phase A and the last dose of Phase B are presented in Figure 1. Following a 600 mg single-dose, mean maximum eslicarbazepine plasma concentrations (Cmax) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to infinity (AUC0-∞) were respectively 9.9 ?g/mL and 180.9 ?g.h/mL in young subjects, and 9.5 ?g/mL and 196.0 ?g.h/mL in elderly subjects, and respectively 9.3 ?g/mL and 171.9 ?g.h/mL in male subjects, and 10.1 ?g/mL and 205.0 ?g.h/mL in female subjects. After multiple-dosing, steady-state plasma concentrations were attained at 4 to 5 days of administration in both age and gender groups, consistent with an effective half-life in the order of 17?18 hours. Post last dose of Phase B, mean Cmax and AUC0-∞ of eslicarbazepine were respectively 17.3 ?g/mL and 296.7 ?g.h/mL in young subjects, and 15.1 ?g/mL and 294.3 ?g.h/mL in elderly subjects, and respectively 15.5 ?g/mL and 295.8 ?g.h/mL in male subjects, and 16.8 ?g/mL and 295.2 ?g.h/mL in female subjects. Following single-dose, the eslicarbazepine Cmax, AUC0?24 and AUC0-∞ elderly/young geometric mean ratios (GMR) and their 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) were 0.95 (0.81, 1.14), 1.02 (0.86, 1.24) and 1.06 (0.88, 1.32) and the female/male GMR (95%CI) were 1.09 (0.87, 1.43), 1.16 (0.95, 1.48) and 1.17 (0.90, 1.63), respectively. Following last dose, the eslicarbazepine Cmax, AUC0?24, and AUC0-∞ elderly/young GMR (95%CI) were 0.88 (0.77, 1.03), 0.98 (0.90, 1.09), and 1.01 (0.89, 1.18) and the female/male GMR (95%CI) were 1.10 (0.98, 1.27), 1.04 (0.88, 1.28), and 1.01 (0.83, 1.30), respectively. Conclusions: The pharmacokinetic profile of eslicarbazepine acetate was not affected either by age nor gender. 1 Monique Somogyi, and 1 Kevin McCague ( 1 US Clinical Development  lack of response, or patient or carer concern about adverse effects led to TPM withdrawal. Results: Complete seizure control was obtained in 5% of patients. Most achieved a useful reduction in seizure frequency of between 40?80%. A small number reported a shift in seizure spectrum towards milder and/or shorter events. Several patients with tuberous sclerosis (TS), achieved a good effect on seizure control with a final TPM dose of 800ng or higher, with no significant adverse effects. TPM did not have a noticable benefit in tonic seizures. Further analysis of seizure frequency was complicated by factors such as comcomitant withdrawal of other AEDs. In 4 cases, all with cryptogenic/symptomatic generalised epilepsies, TPM was associated with increased seizure frequency and paraictal behavior disturbance, unresponsive to dose reduction but improving on TPM withdrawal. 2 cases were withdrawn due to weight loss; there were no other withdrawals. In several cases carers and patients reported being brighter and more alert. In everyday situations no memory impairment was noted and no patient complained of slowed thinking. A patient with coexisting Prader-Willi syndrome achieved not only improvement in seizure control but also significant improvement in his eating disorder. Conclusions: With slow dose escalation, TPM was well tolerated in people with ID across the age range, and no obvious cognitive effects that interfere with everyday life were noted. Indeed some reported subjective improvement. Some adults with TS may tolerate and benefit from high doses of TPM. Treatment-emergent behavioral effects were associated with paradoxical increase in seizure frequency in some patients; further investigation may reveal an at-risk phenotype. Our pratice continues to support the value of community-based specialist nusre monitoring of dose regimes and adverse events. 1 Jonathan Tisdell, and 1 William A. Tosches ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts, Hopedale, MA ) Rationale: This study was designed to investigate the efficacy and safety of long-term zonisamide as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy by conducting a retrospective chart review of patients with epilepsy. Methods: Charts of neurology clinic patients with a variety of seizure types were reviewed to identify patients treated with zonisamide for ≥3 months. The efficacy of zonisamide was based on the reduction in seizure frequency, and safety of zonisamide was evaluated by reports of adverse events (AEs). Both results were based on physicians' notes and patient reporting. Results: A total of 112 male and female zonisamide-treated patients were identified for the study. Of these, 90 patients (n = 45 monotherapy, n = 45 adjunctive therapy) who were taking zonisamide therapy for ≥3 months were included in the efficacy analysis; all 112 patients were included in the safety analysis. The patients' ages ranged from 14 to 97 years (mean, 54 y). The duration of zonisamide therapy ranged from 3 to 46 months (mean, 24.3 mos), and the zonisamide dosages ranged from 100 to 1000 mg/d (mean, 324 mg/d). Complex partial seizures and partial seizures with secondary generalization were the most common seizure types. Of the 90 patients included in the efficacy analysis, 38 (42%; n = 25 monotherapy, n = 13 adjunctive therapy) were seizure free on zonisamide at the end of the study. A ≥50% seizure frequency reduction was observed in 26 patients (29%; n = 9 monotherapy, n = 17 adjunctive therapy). A total of 15 zonisamide-treated patients experienced either no effect (10%; n = 4 monotherapy, n = 5 adjunctive therapy) or an unknown effect (7%; n = 4 monotherapy, n = 2 adjunctive therapy) on seizure frequency. Thirty of the 112 patients (27%) reported AEs and these included (≥2% of subjects) weight/appetite loss (5.4%), fatigue (4.5%), sedation (2.7%), and gastrointestinal distress (2.7%). A total of 22 patients (20%) discontinued zonisamide therapy; 8 discontinued for unknown reasons, 1 due to ineffective seizure control, and 13 patients (12%) discontinued due to AEs, which included GI distress, rash, weight loss, and fatigue. Conclusions: Zonisamide was effective as long-term monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in patients with various seizure types, and was safe and well tolerated in these patients. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 Alexandre Todorov, 2 Victor Biton, 3 Gregory L. Krauss, 4 Carlos Perdomo, and 4 Santiago Arroyo ( 1 Neurology Clinic, PC, Northport, AL ; 2 Clinical Trials, Inc., Little Rock, AK ; 3 Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ; and 4 Eisai Global Clinical Development, Ridgefield Park, NJ ) Rationale: Rufinamide, a structurally novel antiepileptic drug (AED) under investigation, demonstrates broad-spectrum anticonvulsant activity in animal models. This study was designed to assess the efficacy and safety of high- versus low-dose rufinamide monotherapy in patients with inadequately controlled partial seizures with or without secondary generalization. Methods: In this multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group study, patients with inadequately controlled partial seizures on 1 or 2 AEDs were randomized to a low dose (n = 70; 300 mg/d) or a high dose, (n = 72; 3200 mg/d) of rufinamide for 112 days. Concomitant AED regimens were simultaneously tapered and discontinued over a 42-day period beginning at randomization. Patients either completed 112 days of treatment or were allowed to exit the study by meeting criteria based on severity and frequency of seizures. The primary efficacy outcome was the percentage of patients meeting 1 exit criterion; the secondary efficacy outcome was the time to meeting 1 exit criterion. Safety was assessed by the presence and frequency of adverse events (AEs), physical examinations, vital signs, electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings, and laboratory assessments. Results: A total of 142 patients (age, ≥12 years) entered the study. The percentage of patients meeting 1 exit criterion was 66.7% and 72.5% for the high- and low-dose groups, respectively; the difference was not significant (p = 0.4402). Median time to meeting 1 exit criterion showed a trend favoring high dose (56 days) versus low dose (32 days), but was not statistically significant (p = 0.0968). The most commonly reported AEs (≥10% of patients in either group) for high dose versus low dose were nausea (23.6% vs 7.1%), headache (19.4% vs 8.6%), and fatigue (15.3% vs 2.9%). There were no deaths during the course of this study. Nonfatal, serious AEs occurred in 4 patients receiving 3200 mg/d rufinamide and in 2 patients receiving 300 mg/d rufinamide. Three patients from the 3200 mg/d group were discontinued from the study due to nonserious AEs. No clinically relevant changes in vital signs, ECG recordings, or laboratory parameters were noted Conclusions: Efficacy analysis showed no significant difference between groups in the percentage of patients meeting 1 of the exit criteria. Adverse events were comparable between the 2 groups, with a greater incidence of AEs in the high-dose group. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 Edwin Trevathan, 2 Susan P. Kerls, 2 Anne E. Hammer, 2 Alain Vuong, and 2 John A. Messenheimer ( 1 Pediatric Epilepsy Center, Division of Pediatric and Developmental Neurology, Departments of Neurology and Pediatrics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO ; and 2 GSK, Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: There are very limited data on the treatment of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) from randomized clinical trials (RCT). We performed a sub-analysis of data among patients with JME who participated in a recently completed RCT. Methods: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study was conducted on lamotrigine (LAMICTAL?, LTG) as adjunctive therapy in the the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures in patients ≥ 2 years of age. Patients with a diagnosis of epilepsy with PGTC seizures who were receiving 1 or 2 antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) at study entry were eligible. Patients with partial seizures were carefully excluded. There were three study phases: Baseline; Escalation (7?12 weeks), during which study drug was titrated to a target dose; Maintenance, during which doses of study drug and concomitant AEDs were held constant for 12 weeks. A total of 121 patients were randomized, and 117 entered the dose escalation phase of the study; analysis of these data have been presented previously. Data on the 33 patients who met clinical diagnostic criteria for JME were analyzed by intent-to-treat methods and are now reported. Results: 33 patients with JME (17 LTG, 16 placebo (PBO)) 2 to 52 years of age were randomized and received study drug. There was no significant difference between the JME patients randomized to LTG compared to those randomized to PBO by age, age at first generalized tonic-clonic seizure, or median seizures per month at screen. The median percent change from Baseline in PGTC seizure frequency (the primary efficacy endpoint) during the entire treatment period was a 72% decrease in the LTG group and a 16% decrease in the PBO group (p = 0.020). During the entire treatment period a ≥ 50% decrease in PGTCS frequency was achieved by 71% (12 of 17) in the LTG group and 31% (5 of 16) in the PBO group (p = 0.038). For all seizure types, the median percent change from Baseline in seizure frequency during the entire treatment period was a 44% decrease in the LTG group and a 20% increase in the PBO group (p = 0.011). The percent of patients in the LTG group with a ≥50% increase in all seizures remained constant throughout the study (1/16; 6%). There was no difference in the number of patients who reported one or more adverse events (AE) between the LTG group (3/17; 18%) and the PBO group (3/16; 19%). Two patients from the LTG group (one an intentional carbamazepine overdose, and the second an episode of status epilepticus) and no patients from the PBO group discontinued the study prematurely due to an AE. Conclusions: Adjunctive LTG therapy was effective in the treatment of PGTC seizures, and was well-tolerated, among patients with JME. (Supported by GSK.) 1 Jennifer A. Collins, 1 Karla J. Walker, and 1 Gregory C. Janis ( 1 Clinical Toxicology, MEDTOX Laboratories, Saint Paul, MN ) Rationale: Therapeutic Drug Monitoring (TDM) of anticonvulsants is an important tool in the management of patients with seizure disorders. We have previously reported the development of an analytical method for these compounds utilizing HPLC coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LCMSMS). This comprehensive method can analyze up to 13 anticonvulsant drugs from a single sample using minimum sample volume. The sensitivity of the LCMSMS method allows us to propose the use of a filter paper collection technique for monitoring anticonvulsant drug levels. This would provide a means for caregivers to collect TDM samples at crucial time points in non-medical settings, as well as facilitate routine sample collection. We have recently initiated a study protocol with a clinical practice group to establish relative equivalence of the anticonvulsant concentrations in each matrix and to validate the feasibility of the alternative collection/testing paradigm. Preliminary data is presented. Methods: Subjects enrolled in the study adhere to the monitoring schedule prescribed by treating physicians. Venipuncture samples are collected in the clinic. A lancet is then used to pierce the finger and capillary blood is collected onto a Filter Paper (FP) blood collection device and a serum separator FP device. Specimens are transported to the laboratory for testing. Specimens tested for the comparison are: venous whole blood, venous plasma, capillary whole blood on FP and capillary plasma on FP. The plasma sample collected by venipuncture is considered the predicate sample/method for comparison purposes. In the laboratory, the filter paper specimens are processed for testing by punching circles from the filter paper and placing them into test tubes. Internal standards are added and the analytes are solubilized into a mixture of acetonitrile and water. Quantitative standards and controls are processed the same manner. Processed samples, standards and controls are analyzed by LCMSMS using the methods developed for the target compounds. Results: Preliminary results for one of the monitored compounds, Lamotrigine (LamictalR) are presented in Figure 1. This data represents a limited number of sampling points (n = 6); the study protocol is designed for 20 or more comparisons for each compound. Linear regression statistics indicate correlation coefficients > 0.956 for each matrix. Conclusions: This preliminary data demonstrates excellent correlation of lamotrigine concentrations in samples obtained using alternative sampling techniques. As the study progresses, additional data will allow for more rigorous comparisons for the included anticonvulsant compounds. (Supported by MEDTOX Laboratories, Inc.) 1,2 Claude Wasterlain, 1,2 Lucie Suchomelova, 3 Alain Matagne, 3 Henrik Klitgaard, 1,2 Andrey Mazarati, 1,2 Steve Shinmei, and 1,2 Roger Baldwin ( 1 Epilepsy Research Laboratory, VA Greater Los Angeles Health Care System, West Los Angeles, CA ; 2 Neurology, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ; and 3 Preclinical CNS Research, Pharma Sector, UCB S.A., Braine-l'Alleud, Belgium ) Rationale: Brivaracetam (ucb 34714) is a new pyrrolidone derivative, structurally related to levetiracetam (LEV; Keppraò), which displays higher affinity than LEV to the LEV-binding site (the synaptic vesicle protein 2A). We examined its anticonvulsant properties in an animal model of acute, partially drug-resistant self-sustaining status epilepticus (SSSE). Methods: SSSE was induced by 30 min intermittent stimulation of the perforant path (PPS) through chronically implanted electrodes in free running adult male Wistar rats. Brivaracetam (0.3?300 mg/kg), vehicle, levetiracetam (2-500 mg/kg), diazepam (10 mg/kg) and brivaracetam/diazepam combinations were injected intravenously 40 min. after onset of PPS. Results: Brivaracetam injected iv during established SSSE, shortened the cumulative duration of active seizures in a dose-dependent manner, to 11% of vehicle-treated controls (20 mg/kg) and 0.8% of controls (300 mg/kg), compared to 35% of C after levetiracetam (200 mg/kg), 11% of C after seletracetam (300 mg/kg), 15% of C after diazepam (10 mg/kg) and 1% of C after fosphenytoin (50 mg/kg PE). Brivaracetam, like levetiracetam, potentiated the effect of diazepam: diazepam (1 mg/kg) or brivaracetam (1 mg/Kg) alone had no significant effect, but when combined, they reduced the duration of active seizures to 3% of C. Conclusions: Brivaracetam displayed potent anticonvulsant effects in this animal model of SSSE. However, like all drugs, it required doses much higher for control of established SSSE than those which are effective in animal models of partial and generalized epilepsy. (Supported by VHA, by research grant NS13515 from NINDS, and by a research grant from UCB.) 1 James W. Wheless, 2 Jeffrey S. Nye, and 2 Steven Wang ( 1 Child Neurology, University of Tennessee, Memphis, TN ; and 2 Johnson  2 Osher Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA ; and 3 McLean Hospital, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Huperzine A (HupA), a sesquiterpene alkaloid derived from Chinese club moss (Huperzia serrata), has traditionally been used in China for swelling, fever and inflammation. HupA crosses the blood-brain barrier and is a potent and reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase. HupA also has been shown to reduce glutamate-induced neuronal death and act as an NMDA receptor antagonist. We therefore screened HupA for evidence of efficacy and toxicity in two animal seizure models. Methods: HupA was evaluated in the mouse maximal electroshock (MES) and s.c. Metrazol (pentylenetetrazol; s.c. Met) models of generalized tonic-clonic and myoclonic seizures, respectively following p.o. administration to Swiss-Webster mice. Minimal motor impairment was evaluated in the rotarod test. Results: HupA was found to be active against s.c. Met- but not MES-induced seizures. Peak anticonvulsant activity was observed one-hour after p.o. administration of 1 mg/kg. At the doses tested (i.e., 1, 2, and 4 mg/kg), a maximum of 62.5% protection was observed at a non-toxic dose of 1 mg/kg. Behavioral motor impairment in 75 and 100% of mice tested was observed at doses of 2 and 4 mg/kg, respectively. Conclusions: HupA was found to display potent, but incomplete protection against clonic seizures induced by s.c. Met. These results demonstrated that HupA is orally bioavailable and reaches effective brain concentrations. Given that HupA is an NMDA receptor antagonist, it may also be effective as neuroprotective therapy for the prevention of epileptogenesis and seizure-induced neuronal toxicity. On-going studies are currently evaluating this hypothesis. (Supported by NINDS Contract NO1-NS-4-2359 (HSW) and a grant from The Epilepsy Project (S.S.).) 1 Sunil Mehta, and 1 Brenda Y. Wu ( 1 Department of Neurology, UMDNJ- Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, NJ ) Rationale: Nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) in the context of acute medical problems is associated with substantial mortality. About 1/3 of NCSE cases are refractory to traditional antiepileptics and intermittent benzodiazepines. Treatment with high dose benzodiazepine or barbiturate to achieve burst-suppression EEG pattern can be effective, but failure rate and post-treatment recurrence rate are considerable in refractory cases. Moreover, intubation for airway protection is not always feasible. As levetiracetam (LEV) has a unique mechanism of action with minimal systemic side effects and is effective in treating chronic epilepsy, its use in NCSE is studied. Methods: We reviewed 9 consecutive cases of NCSE treated with levetiracetam (3/2004- 4/2005). These patients, aged 48?89, were diagnosed with NCSE by clinical observation and EEGs. Given 1?2 antiepileptics ± intermittent lorazepam, they showed no clinical and electrographic improvement before initiation of 500 mg LEV (1000 mg in case 9). Continuous i.v. infusion of midazolam (MDZ) was given at least 12 hours after LEV loading in case 6 and 8, and simultaneously with LEV in case 4. A successful response is defined as being seizure-free for at least one week. Levetiracetam treatment in nonconvulsive status epilepticus ?Case Age ?Gender ?Etiology AED before ?LEV AED after ?LEV MDZ ?Drip ?Outcome ?Brain MRI/CT 1. CPS 58F L-sinus thrombosis PHT No No Sz-free ?L-temporal leptomeninge 2. CPS 78F idiopathic PHT,OXC No No Sz-free ?L-temporal leptomeninge 3. CPS 68M idiopathic PHT No No Sz-free ?L-parieto-occipital leptomeninge 4. focal motor Sz; coma 48F Pre-B cell lymphoma VPA, PHT No Yes Sz stopped on LEV+MDZ? Sz-free on LEV only ?R-frontal leptomeninige 5. CPS 88F chronic epilepsy PB, OXC No No Sz-free No acute change 6. coma 68F GBM PHT PB Yes no change on LEV or MDZ?Sz-free after PB?expired ?L-hemispheric meninge; L-occipital GBM 7. coma 76F ICH PHT No No ineffective?expired R-ICH with herniation 8. focal motor Sz; coma 89M acute stroke PHT PB Yes no change on LEV or PB?Sz stopped after MDZ?Sz-free on LEV only acute L-MCA/PCA infarct 9. CPS ± focal motor Sz 74F acute stroke PHT No No Sz-free acute L-MCA/PCA infarct Sz- seizure; CPS-complex partial seizure; AED-antiepileptic drug; LEV-levetiracetam; PHT-phenytoin; PB-phenobarbital; OXC-oxcarbazepine; VPA-valproic acid; MDZ-midazolam continuous i.v. infusion; MCA-middle cerebral artery; PCA-posterior cerebral artery; L-left; R- right; ICH-intracerebral hemorrhage; GBM- glioblastoma multiforme; ?-signal increase Results: Successful control of NCSE was achieved in 5 of 9 patients treated with LEV as adjunct agent without MDZ infusion. Two of the non-responders died due to profound cerebral structural abnormalities. In cases treated with LEV followed by MDZ infusion, 2 out of 3 patients were seizure-free on LEV monotherapy. Conclusions: This study suggests that LEV may be effective in control refractory NCSE but less effective in conditions of severe intracranial abnormalities. Further investigation is necessary. (Supported by Dept. of Neurology, RWJ Medical School.) 1 Li-Ping Zou, and 1 Li-Wen Wu ( 1 Division of Neurology, Capital University of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China; and Division of Neurology, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China ) Rationale: ?? Oxcarbazepine (Trileptal?) was approved by the SFDA in 2004 for the treatment of partial or generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy in children and adults. ?? Oxcarbazepine has a different pharmacokinetic profile comparing to carbamazepine. From US and European studies Oxcarbazepine shows an improved safety profile, but there is limited data from Asian populations. ?? The recommended dosing of oxcarbazepine is mostly from studies in Caucasians. Information regarding the appropriate dosing in Asian populations is needed. Methods: ?? This was a prospective open-label, study conducted in Chinese patients with partial or generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy who were newly diagnosed. ?? Treatment period was 24 weeks that included flexible dosing of oxcarbazepine monotherapy. ?? Efficacy assessments were seizure free rate and seizure frequency reduction ≥50% (percentage of patients). ?? Adverse events (AEs) were recorded throughout the study. Results: Patient characteristics ?? A total of 325 patients were enrolled. Patient characteristics are shown in Table 1. Efficacy Responder rate ?? Overall, 70% of patients responded to therapy at 24 weeks. Of these patients, 225(69%) and 196(60%) were seizure free at week 12 and 24 respectively (Figure 1). Dosing ?? The starting dose of oxcarbazepine was 251.85±129.34(50?750)mg/day and the maintenance dose was 644.67±287.69(150?1500)mg/day. The is no significant different among different age groups. Tolerability ?? A total of 63(19%) patients experienced AE's, leading to discontinuation in only 3.1%. The most frequency reported AEs were dizziness 11(3.4%); headache 6(1.8%); somnolence 14(4.3%); asthenia 4 (1.2%) and skin rash 9 (2.8%). 1 [ Proportion of total patients showing an improvement in seizure frequency at 12 and 24 weeks ] Conclusions: ?? The results from this study of newly diagnosed patients with partial or generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy confirm the efficacy and tolerability of oxcarbazepine, when prescribed as monotherapy for Chinese patients. ?? A maintenace dose of oxcarbazepine close to 650mg allows for optimal seizure control with an excellent tolerability profile. This dosage seems to be lower than Caucasians. ?? The nature, frequency and severity of AEs reported in this study were consistent with those previously reported in US or European studies. (Supported by Beijing Novartis Pharma Ltd.) 1 Patient characteristics and disposition Patent characteristics Total No. patients 325 Age(years) mean(SD) 17.02±14.6 Age group, n (%) <18 years 213(65.5%) ≥18 years 112(34.5) Patients who completed study, n(%) 284(87.4%) Patients who prematurely discontinued, n(%) 41(13%) Due to AEs 10(24%) Due to lack of efficacy 9(22%) Due to other reasons 22(54)
ER  - 
