
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rittirsch, Daniel
AU  - Hoesel, L. Marco
AU  - Ward, Peter A.
TI  - The disconnect between animal models of sepsis and human sepsis
JO  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
JA  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
VL  - 81
IS  - 1
SN  - 0741-5400
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1189/jlb.0806542
DO  - doi:10.1189/jlb.0806542
SP  - 137
EP  - 143
KW  - cecal ligation and puncture
KW  - lipopolysaccharide
KW  - rodents
PY  - 2007
AB  - Frequently used experimental models of sepsis include cecal ligation and puncture, ascending colon stent peritonitis, and the i.p. or i.v. injection of bacteria or bacterial products (such as LPS). Many of these models mimic the pathophysiology of human sepsis. However, identification of mediators in animals, the blockade of which has been protective, has not translated into clinical efficacy in septic humans. We describe the shortcomings of the animal models and reasons why effective therapy for human sepsis cannot be derived readily from promising findings in animal sepsis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - von Sydow, Kirsten
AU  - Retzlaff, Ruediger
AU  - Beher, Stefan
AU  - Haun, Markus W.
AU  - Schweitzer, Jochen
TI  - The Efficacy of Systemic Therapy for Childhood and Adolescent Externalizing Disorders: A Systematic Review of 47 RCT
JO  - Family Process
JA  - Fam. Proc.
VL  - 52
IS  - 4
SN  - 0014-7370
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/famp.12047
DO  - doi:10.1111/famp.12047
SP  - 576
EP  - 618
KW  - Conduct Disorder
KW  - Substance Use Disorder
KW  - Systemic Therapy
KW  - Family Therapy
KW  - Child and Adolescent Psychotherapy
KW  - Randomized Controlled Trial
KW  - Efficacy
KW  - Psychotherapy Research
PY  - 2013
AB  - Systemic (family) therapy is a widely used psychotherapy approach. However, most systematic efficacy reviews have focused solely on ?family-based treatment? rather than on the theoretic orientation ?systemic therapy.? We systematically review trials on the efficacy of systemic therapy for the treatment of childhood and adolescent externalizing disorders. All randomized (or matched) controlled trials (RCT) evaluating systemic/systems-oriented therapy in various forms (family, individual, group, multi-family group therapy) with child or adolescent index patients (0?17 years) suffering from mental disorders were identified by data base searches and cross-references. Inclusion criteria were as follows: index patient diagnosed with a DSM- or ICD-listed mental disorder, and trial published in any language up to the end of 2011. The RCTs were analyzed for their research methodology, interventions applied, and results (postintervention; follow-up). A total of 47 trials from the United States, Europe, and China, published in English, German, and Mandarin, were identified. A total of 42 of them showed systemic therapy to be efficacious for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorders, conduct disorders, and substance use disorders. Results were stable across follow-up periods of up to 14 years. There is a sound evidence base for the efficacy of systemic therapy for children and adolescents (and their families) diagnosed with externalizing disorders.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Eling, Rebeka
AU  - Kent, Alison
AU  - Robertson, Meiri
TI  - Pregnancy after uterine arteriovenous malformation–case series and literature review
JO  - Australasian Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine
JA  - Australasian Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine
VL  - 15
IS  - 3
SN  - 1836-6864
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/j.2205-0140.2012.tb00012.x
DO  - doi:10.1002/j.2205-0140.2012.tb00012.x
SP  - 87
EP  - 96
KW  - uterine arteriovenous malformation
KW  - pregnancy
KW  - ultrasound
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Purpose: To perform a retrospective audit of cases of uterine arteriovenous malformations (UAVM) at The Canberra Hospital and review of recent literature reporting pregnancies occurring after the diagnosis of UAVM aiming to devise a diagnostic and treatment protocol to optimise pregnancy post UAVM. Methods: A retrospective audit of cases of UAVM at the Canberra Hospital from a prospectively managed patient database was performed. A search of the electronic database PubMed, for articles between 2000?2011 relating to pregnancy post UAVM. Individual case studies were analysed separately to case series. Results: The study included 28 individual studies and five case series (61 women). Average age was 29.5 ± 6.7 (range 18?42). Most women (24, 85.7%, 100% in case series) presented with abnormal vaginal bleeding; 11 (41%) individuals presented post interruption of pregnancy. All women had had a previous pregnancy (mean gravidity 3.1 ± 3.1, range 1?15 for case studies) and only four women (14.2 %) had no history of uterine trauma. Only one woman (3.6 %) did not have any ultrasound and most women underwent colour Doppler ultrasonography (20, 71.4% in case studies; 61, 83.6% in case series). Of the women, 72 (53.6 % of case studies, 78.1 % of case series) were treated with uterine artery embolisation, seven (25%) were treated expectantly. A total of 63 pregnancies occurred post treatment, seven (13.9%) ending in miscarriage. Average time to conceive post diagnosis was 19 months ± 16.3 (range 2?72). A total of 54 healthy infants were born to mothers post AVM diagnosis. Conclusion: UAVM are likely to exist on a continuum with other pregnancy related pathologies, such as sub involution of the placental bed, making a single best diagnostic and treatment plan difficult. However, this study shows that successful uncomplicated pregnancy is achievable for women after the diagnosis of UAVM.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Altman, R.
AU  - Alarcon, G.
AU  - Appelrouth, D.
AU  - Bloch, D.
AU  - Borenstein, D.
AU  - Brandt, K.
AU  - Brown, C.
AU  - Cooke, T. D.
AU  - Daniel, W.
AU  - Gray, R.
AU  - Greenwald, R.
AU  - Hochberg, M.
AU  - Howell, D.
AU  - Ike, R.
AU  - Kapila, P.
AU  - Kaplan, D.
AU  - Koopman, W.
AU  - Longley, S.
AU  - Mcshane, D. J.
AU  - Medsger, T.
AU  - Michel, B.
AU  - Murphy, W.
AU  - Osial, T.
AU  - Ramsey-Goldman, R.
AU  - Rothschild, B.
AU  - Stark, K.
AU  - Wolfe, F.
TI  - The American College of Rheumatology criteria for the classification and reporting of osteoarthritis of the hand
JO  - Arthritis & Rheumatism
JA  - Arthritis & Rheumatism
VL  - 33
IS  - 11
SN  - 0004-3591
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/art.1780331101
DO  - doi:10.1002/art.1780331101
SP  - 1601
EP  - 1610
PY  - 1990
AB  - Abstract Clinical criteria for the classification of symptomatic idiopathic (primary) osteoarthritis (OA) of the hands were developed from data collected in a multi-center study. Patients with OA were compared with a group of patients who had hand symptoms from other causes, such as rheumatoid arthritis and the spondylar-thropathies. Variables from the medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests, and radiographs were analyzed. All patients had pain, aching, or stiffness in the hands. Patients were classified as having clinical OA if on examination there was hard tissue enlargement involving at least 2 of 10 selected joints, swelling of fewer than 3 metacarpophalangeal joints, and hard tissue enlargement of at least 2 distal interphalangeal (DIP) joints. If the patient had fewer than 2 enlarged DIP joints, then deformity of at least 1 of the 10 selected joints was necessary in order to classify the symptoms as being due to OA. The 10 selected joints were the second and third DIP, the second and third proximal interphalangeal, and the trapeziometacarpal (base of the thumb) joints of both hands. Criteria derived using the ?classification tree? method were 92% sensitive and 98% specific. The ?traditional format? classification method required that at least 3 of these 4 criteria be present to classify a patient as having OA of the hand. The latter sensitivity was 94% and the specificity was 87%. Radiography was of less value than clinical examination in the classification of symptomatic OA of the hands.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Blankenship, James C.
AU  - Nguyen, Duc
AU  - Sirimanne, Laksen
TI  - Oscillating balloon angioplasty: Does pressure oscillation reach the balloon?
JO  - Catheterization and Cardiovascular Diagnosis
JA  - Cathet. Cardiovasc. Diagn.
VL  - 37
IS  - 1
SN  - 0098-6569
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-0304(199601)37:1<109::AID-CCD27>3.0.CO;2-F
DO  - doi:10.1002/(SICI)1097-0304(199601)37:1<109::AID-CCD27>3.0.CO;2-F
SP  - 109
EP  - 112
KW  - angioplasty
KW  - techniques
KW  - complications
PY  - 1996
AB  - Abstract Oscillating pressure inflations may minimize trauma to the coronary artery during coronary angioplasty. We measured in vitro diameters of polyolefin copolymer compliant angioplasty balloons (as a surrogate for pressure) during pressure oscillation at the inflator to determine if pressure oscillations at the inflator were conducted to the balloon. Balloon diameter oscillation increased as cycle length and inflator pressure amplitude increased. Currently practiced oscillating inflation (cycle length 2?3 sec, amplitude 2?3 atm) did not effectively transmit oscillation to the balloon. Clinically feasible optimal balloon oscillation was achieved at a cycle length of 6 sec and pressure amplitude of about 3 atm. ? 1996 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bruccoleri, Alessandra
AU  - Pennypacker, Keith R.
AU  - Harry, G. Jean
TI  - Effect of dexamethasone on elevated cytokine mRNA levels in chemical-induced hippocampal injury
JO  - Journal of Neuroscience Research
JA  - J. Neurosci. Res.
VL  - 57
IS  - 6
SN  - 0360-4012
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-4547(19990915)57:6<916::AID-JNR17>3.0.CO;2-J
DO  - doi:10.1002/(SICI)1097-4547(19990915)57:6<916::AID-JNR17>3.0.CO;2-J
SP  - 916
EP  - 926
KW  - trimethyltin
KW  - dexamethasone
KW  - hippocampus
KW  - GFAP
KW  - cytokines
PY  - 1999
AB  - Abstract An acute administration of the hippocampal toxicant trimethyltin (TMT) produced a specific pattern of neuronal necrosis in dentate granule cells with accompanying astrogliosis and initiation of a cytokine response within 24 hours. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of the anti-inflammatory agent, dexamethasone (DEX), on the pattern of cytokine expression and neuronal degeneration occurring after an acute TMT injection. Dexamethasone (0.2 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg) was administered to 21-day-old male mice 1 hour prior to an injection of TMT hydroxide (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.). Mice receiving 0.2 mg/kg DEX received a second injection 6 hours after TMT. Twenty-four hours later, neuronal necrosis and astrogliosis were assessed and found to be similar in animals treated with TMT, either in the presence or absence of dexamethasone. Pretreatment with dexamethasone failed to prevent the neurodegeneration and astrogliosis. The TMT-induced injury response was represented in elevations of mRNA levels for the injury-associated host response genes glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), EB22/5.3, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). The combination of DEX and TMT produced increased elevation in mRNA levels for EB22/5.3 and ICAM, while GFAP levels remained the same as with TMT alone. The injury response from TMT was accompanied by elevations in mRNA levels for the cytokines tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α, TNF?, and interleukin (IL)-1α. Treatment with dexamethasone prior to TMT resulted in significantly elevated levels of TNFα, TNF?, and IL-1α as compared to TMT alone. These data represent the inability of glucocorticoids to downregulate the injury response in rat hippocampus following a systemic injection of TMT and suggest a stimulation and ?priming? of hippocampal cells by dexamethasone. J. Neurosci. Res. 57:916?926, 1999.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - ADF Abstracts 2012
JO  - Experimental Dermatology
VL  - 21
IS  - 3
SN  - 0906-6705
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0625.2011.01428.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0625.2011.01428.x
SP  - e1
EP  - e58
PY  - 2012
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Carver, Chase M.
AU  - Hastings, Shayne D.
AU  - Cook, Mileah E.
AU  - Shapiro, Mark S.
TI  - Functional responses of the hippocampus to hyperexcitability depend on directed, neuron-specific KCNQ2 K+ channel plasticity
JO  - Hippocampus
JA  - Hippocampus
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 1050-9631
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hipo.23163
DO  - doi:10.1002/hipo.23163
KW  - epileptogenesis
KW  - hippocampus
KW  - hyperexcitability
KW  - KCNQ channels
KW  - plasticity
AB  - Abstract M-type (KCNQ2/3) K+ channels play dominant roles in regulation of active and passive neuronal discharge properties such as resting membrane potential, spike-frequency adaptation, and hyper-excitatory states. However, plasticity of M-channel expression and function in nongenetic forms of epileptogenesis are still not well understood. Using transgenic mice with an EGFP reporter to detect expression maps of KCNQ2 mRNA, we assayed hyperexcitability-induced alterations in KCNQ2 transcription across subregions of the hippocampus. Pilocarpine and pentylenetetrazol chemoconvulsant models of seizure induction were used, and brain tissue examined 48?hr later. We observed increases in KCNQ2 mRNA in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons after chemoconvulsant-induced hyperexcitability at 48?hr, but no significant change was observed in dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells. Using chromogenic in situ hybridization assays, changes to KCNQ3 transcription were not detected after hyper-excitation challenge, but the results for KCNQ2 paralleled those using the KCNQ2-mRNA reporter mice. In mice 7?days after pilocarpine challenge, levels of KCNQ2 mRNA were similar in all regions to those from control mice. In brain-slice electrophysiology recordings, CA1 pyramidal neurons demonstrated increased M-current amplitudes 48?hr after hyperexcitability; however, there were no significant changes to DG granule cell M-current amplitude. Traumatic brain injury induced significantly greater KCNQ2 expression in the hippocampal hemisphere that was ipsilateral to the trauma. In vivo, after a secondary challenge with subconvulsant dose of pentylenetetrazole, control mice were susceptible to tonic?clonic seizures, whereas mice administered the M-channel opener retigabine were protected from such seizures. This study demonstrates that increased excitatory activity promotes KCNQ2 upregulation in the hippocampus in a cell-type specific manner. Such novel ion channel expressional plasticity may serve as a compensatory mechanism after a hyperexcitable event, at least in the short term. The upregulation described could be potentially leveraged in anticonvulsant enhancement of KCNQ2 channels as therapeutic target for preventing onset of epileptogenic seizures.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Asner, Gregory P.
AU  - Vaughn, Nicholas
AU  - Smit, Izak P. J.
AU  - Levick, Shaun
TI  - Ecosystem-scale effects of megafauna in African savannas
JO  - Ecography
JA  - Ecography
VL  - 39
IS  - 2
SN  - 0906-7590
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ecog.01640
DO  - doi:10.1111/ecog.01640
SP  - 240
EP  - 252
PY  - 2016
AB  - Natural protected areas are critically important in the effort to prevent large-scale megafaunal extinctions caused by hunting and habitat degradation. Yet such protection can lead to rapid increases in megafauna populations. Understanding ecosystem-scale responses of vegetation to changing megafaunal populations, such as the case of the African elephant Loxodonta africana in savannas, requires large-scale, high-resolution monitoring over time. From 2008 to 2014, we repeatedly surveyed the fate of more than 10.4 million woody plant canopies throughout the Kruger National Park, South Africa using airborne Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR), to determine the relative importance of multiple environmental, biotic and management factors affecting treefall rates and patterns. We report a mean biennial treefall rate of 8 trees or 12% ha?1, but with heterogeneous patterns of loss in both space and time. Throughout Kruger, the influence of elephant density on treefall was matched only by spatial variation in soils and elevation, and all three factors co-dominated park-wide treefall patterns. Elephant density was up to two times more influential than fire frequency in determining treefall rates, and this pattern was most pronounced for taller trees (> 2 m in height). Our results suggest that confining megafauna populations to protected areas, or reintroducing them into former or new habitat, can greatly alter the structure and functioning of the host ecosystem. Conservation strategies will need to accommodate and manage these massive ecological changes in the effort to save megafauna from extinction, without compromising system functionality.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: Computer Analysis of EEG
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_34.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_34.x
SP  - 312
EP  - 324
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Tomoyuki Akiyama, 2 Hiroshi Otsubo, 2 Ayako Ochi, 2 Rajesh RamachandranNair, 2 Irene Elliot, 2 Elizabeth Donner, 2 Shelly K. Weiss, 2 James T. Rutka, and 2 O. Carter Snead III ( 1 Department of Child Neurology, Okayama University Hospital, Okayama, Okayama, Japan ; and 2 Division of Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Multiple band frequency analysis (MBFA), a new frequency analysis method, provides better frequency and temporal resolutions than fast Fourier or wavelet transform. We evaluated dynamic changes of high frequency oscillations (HFOs) on brain surface maps using MBFA to localize epileptogenic zones in neocortical epilepsy. Methods: We studied 2 children with intractable neocortical epilepsy by subdural EEG (SDEEG) at 1 KHz sampling rate. We performed MBFA for 1?5 second ictal EEG using the software Short Spectrum Eye (Gram, Saitama, Japan). We identified HFOs, determined the frequency range, and calculated averaged powers at every 10 ms for all electrodes. We imported the averaged powers into a topographic mapping program Prism and Insight (Persyst, Prescott, AZ) to visualize HFO powers on the brain surface picture. To analyze temporal interrelationships of regions with HFOs, we arranged HFO power maps at every 20 ms to project movies of ictal HFOs on the brain surface. Case 1: A 17 year old right handed girl presented with simple partial seizures consisting of numbness and tingling sensations in the right arm followed by clonic movements and secondary generalization. Case 2: A 14 year old left handed boy with asymmetric epileptic spasms in clusters. Results: Case 1; During partial seizures, MBFA of 25-channel SDEEG showed 80?130 Hz HFOs over the middle portion of the left postcentral gyrus and upper portion of the left post- and pre-central gyri. Sequential power maps of 80?130 Hz HFOs revealed high powers over these 2 regions, and reverberating power changes between them with a maximum at the middle portion of postcentral gyrus. We resected the upper and middle portions of left postcentral gyrus. She has rare and brief partial motor seizures without sensory aura and secondary generalization 9 months after surgery. Case 2; During spasms, MBFA of 106-channel SDEEG showed extensive but noncontiguous 60?150 Hz HFOs over the right superior and inferior frontal, and middle temporal gyri. Sequential power maps of 80?120 Hz HFOs revealed initial high power over the right superior frontal gyrus and subsequent activations over other 2 regions. We performed partial right frontal lobectomy, cortical excisions of the superior and inferior frontal gyri, and middle temporal gyrus where predominant HFOs existed. He is seizure free 6 months after surgery. Conclusions: The combination of MBFA and sequential brain surface HFO power mapping enabled us to recognize the localization and dynamic changes of ictal HFOs. This spatial and temporal analysis of HFO cortical mapping may disclose the behavior of ictal networks in the cortical epileptogenic zones. 1 Eishi Asano, 1 Csaba Juhasz, 1 Aashit Shah, 1 Otto Muzik, 1 Diane C. Chugani, 1 Sandeep Sood, and 1 Harry T. Chugani ( 1 Pediatrics, Neurology, Radiology, Neurosurgery, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: Cortical tubers are the hallmark of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and are usually associated with overlying and surrounding gray matter on MRI. In the present study, we have quantitatively analyzed ictal electrocorticography (ECoG) data using subdural and depth electrodes to determine whether epileptic seizures originate more frequently from glucose hypometabolic cortex surrounding a tuber than normometabolic cortex. Secondly, we asked whether epileptic seizures are generated by a cortical tuber itself or the cortex surrounding a tuber in children with TSC. Methods: We studied a series of 16 children with TSC and uncontrolled seizures (age: 5 months to 16 years; 11 boys), who underwent MRI, glucose metabolism PET and prolonged intracranial ECoG recording for subsequent cortical resection. The location of electrodes was derived from planar X-rays and displayed on the 3D brain surface reconstructed from MRIs showing the location of tubers and also hypometabolic areas from co-registered PET scans (Muzik et al, Neurology 2000). For each seizure event, the center of ictal discharges was objectively defined as the electrode showing the maximal increase of ECoG magnitude specific to an ictal onset in a seizure consisting of continuous rhythmic activity or the electrode showing the maximal spike magnitude in a seizure consisting of periodic spike activity or a single spike followed by fast wave bursts (Asano et al, Epilepsia 2005 [in press]). We performed a one-sample t-test to determine whether the center of ictal discharges was located more frequently in glucose hypometabolic regions than normometabolic regions, and whether the center of ictal discharges was located more frequently in the cortex surrounding a tuber than the cortical tuber itself. Results: A total of 70 seizures were objectively analyzed in the subjects where subdural electrodes but not depth electrodes were placed on the presumed epileptic hemisphere. In 57 out of the 70 seizures, the center of ictal discharges was located in the glucose hypometabolic cortices. Ictal discharges arose more frequently from the glucose hypometabolic cortex than from normometabolic cortex (p < 0.001). In a single subject where a depth electrode was inserted into a tuber, no spontaneous seizures were captured and we were not able to determine the location of ictal onset zones. Conclusions: These results suggest that most of the epileptic seizures in children with TSC may be generated by glucose hypometabolic regions associated with either the dysplastic cortex surrounding a tuber or the tuber itself. Further studies of patients with depth electrodes are required to determine whether epileptic seizures are generated by a cortical tuber itself or the cortex surrounding a tuber in children with TSC. (Supported by NIH: K23NS047550.) 1 Chad Carlson, 1 Catherine Schevon, 3 Werner Doyle, 3 Howard Weiner, 2 Joshua Cappell, 2 Ronald Emerson, 2 Lawrence Hirsch, 2 Robert Goodman, 1 Orrin Devinsky, 1 Steven Pacia, and 1 Ruben Kuzniecky ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurological Institute, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: Traditional review of scalp and intracranial subdural video-EEG studies rely primarily upon the visual analysis of the interictal and ictal patterns. In many patients, particularly those with multifocal or neocortical epilepsy, seizures are difficult to localize due to rapid spread of ictal activity and high frequency rhythms that may elude detection, potentially affecting the surgical outcome. Time-frequency analysis is a conceptually simple technique that, when applied to intracranial EEG recordings, may reveal information that is not apparent to visual inspection alone. To facilitate its use, an easily interpreted visual presentation was created that provides an overview of the activity of the complete EEG montage. This case series examines the role of spectral time-frequency analysis in five patients with medically refractory epilepsy who underwent invasive subdural electrode video-EEG studies. Methods: Interictal and ictal recordings were studied from five patients who underwent intracranial subdural electrode studies for seizure localization as part of a presurgical evaluation. Time-frequency spectral analysis was performed on all channels over sequential one-second time windows. The spectrogram over the 1?200 Hz frequency range was displayed using a colormap with intensity corresponding to the logarithm of the FFT of the input signal over a one-second time window; the colormap is fixed for a given sequence to allow comparisons over time and between channels. EEG was recorded on a Nicolet Bravo system with a sampling rate of 400 Hz/channel and bandpass filtered (4th order Butterworth) at 0.5?125 Hz. All computations were implemented in Matlab. Results: Spectral analysis of seizure onsets are shown for the five patients and compared to the clinical interpretation. In four cases, the additional information provided confirmatory support for the clinical localization, while in the fourth case the analysis supported an alternative candidate seizure focus, an observation consistent with the surgical outcome. Conclusions: This case series illustrates the complementary role of spectral time-frequency analysis in the setting of intracranial EEG recordings, as well as the importance of a unified presentation that permits direct comparisons between channels. The role of this technique in providing information not apparent on visual EEG interpretation and its contribution to the evaluation of complex neocortical epilepsies, as well as its potential effect on surgical outcome, warrants further assessment. (Supported by FACES.) 1 Wanpracha A. Chaovalitwongse, 2 Rajesh C. Sachdeo, 3 Panos M. Pardalos, 4 Leonidas D. Iasemidis, and 5 J. C. Sackellares ( 1 Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ ; 2 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, St. Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ ; 3 Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 4 Bioengineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ ; and 5 Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: At least 2 million people in the U.S. (1% of population) currently suffer from epilepsy. The most disabling aspect of epilepsy is recurrent seizures, in which the majority of epileptic patients (at least 1 million) feel that they get inadequate treatments or seizures cannot be controlled by available treatments. It is very clear that improved treatments are desperately needed. In this study, we herein propose novel quantitative approaches that can detect abnormalities in the brain's electrical activity. The results of this study will pave our way to the development of an Automated Brain Activity Classifier, which is a prerequisite of seizure prediction process. Methods: Continuous 26-channel long-term intracranial EEG recordings previously obtained in 3 patients with medically intractable partial seizures were used to test the automated brain activity classifier. Patient 1 had 15 seizures in a 10-day recording; patient 2 had 8 seizures in 6 days; patient 3 had 7 seizures in 12 days. The automated brain activity classifier involved the following steps: (1) quantify the chaoticity properties (i.e., Lyapunov exponents, angular frequency, entropy) of the brain dynamics, (2a) use the statistical cross validation technique to estimate statistical distances between an EEG epoch and the brain activity from different physiological states (normal, pre-seizure, post-seizure), (2b) use optimization techniques to find support vector machines to separate different brain physiological states, (3) classify the EEG epoch to the physiological state of the most brain activity (smallest statistical distance). Results: The sensitivities of the statistical cross validation approach in classifying pre-seizure EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 89.39%, 85.71%, and 84.44%, respectively and the sensitivities in classifying normal EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 93.50%, 78.00%, and 75.00%, respectively. The sensitivities of the support vector machines approach in classifying pre-seizure EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 81.21%, 71.18%, and 74.13%, respectively and the sensitivities in classifying normal EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 87.46%, 76.85%, and 70.60%, respectively. Conclusions: Based on the proposed statistical classification approaches, this automated brain activity classifier can classify EEG epochs into the accurate brain physiological state with performance characteristics that could have practical clinical utility. The classifier could be incorporated into clinical EEG monitoring system or, incorporated into a seizure warning system used to activate timed physiological or pharmacological interventions. 1 Lei Ding, 2 Gregory A. Worrell, 2 Terrence D. Lagerlund, and 1 Bin He ( 1 Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Minnesota ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic ) Rationale: Substantial interest exists in the development of noninvasive localization of epileptogenic foci, since the current standard utilization of subdural electrocorticography and depth electrodes requires surgical implantation with some additional risks to the patient. The aim of the present study is to evaluate a novel noninvasive source localization approach for localizing epileptogenic foci from scalp EEG. Methods: The traditional dipole source localization approach faces problems for multiple dipole source localization as the number of sources increases. We recently developed a new subspace source localization approach, i.e. three-dimensional first principle vectors (3D-FINE), for EEG-based epileptic focus localization (Xu et al, Phys Med  2 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; and 3 Neurology and Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Ten to twenty percent of children with facial port-wine stain (PWS) develop neurologic features characteristic of Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS), which may include seizures, visual field defects, hemiparesis, and cognitive impairment. Screening often involves serial neuroimaging, which carries a sedation risk and is often falsely negative in infants. We have reported that decreased power on the affected side correlated with neurologic impairments in subjects with SWS, and efforts are ongoing to develop quantitative EEG (qEEG) as a tool for early diagnosis in SWS. Methods: Three infants with unilateral facial port-wine stains had standard 16-channel EEG recordings at approximately 4 month intervals. Thirty artifact-free, two-second epochs were selected from each record. Bipolar data from each epoch was submitted to a fast Fourier transform with a frequency resolution of 0.5 Hz. Power spectra from each side of the head were compared using a laterality score (LS = (Left - Right)/(Left + Right). The LS were calculated for delta (2.0?3.5 Hz), theta (4.0?7.5 Hz), alpha (8.0?12.5 Hz), beta (13.0?32.0 Hz), and total power (2?32 Hz). All EEGs were independently read by an experienced electroencephalographer. Results: Subject #1 had a left-sided PWS and initially left-sided brain involvement with his first focal seizure at 8 months of age. EEGs at 11 and 15 months were read as symmetric, but quantitative EEG showed significantly lower power in the left hemisphere. MRI at this time showed left-sided leptomeningeal angiomatosis. MRI at 18 months showed bilateral occipital lesions. Further EEGs at 19 and 23 months yielded no statistically significant asymmetries in total power, possibly reflecting either his bilateral involvement or normal development and fully controlled seizures. Subject #2 had EEGs at 2, 6, and 10 months of age that were read as normal; however, qEEG showed significantly lower ipsilateral power at 2 and 10 months. MRI at 6 months showed unilateral leptomeningeal enhancement. This child has never seized and is developmentally normal. Subject #3 had a single EEG at 4 months that was read as normal; qEEG showed no significant asymmetry. MRI at six months showed no stigmata of SWS. This infant has had neither seizures nor any neurodevelopmental delay. Subjects #2 and #3 will continue to have EEGs every 3 months for a total of two years. Conclusions: In infants with a unilateral port-wine stain, serial qEEG shows decreases in power over the hemisphere that is affected or at-risk for neurological impairment. Further studies are needed to determine if qEEG is a reliable and sensitive method for identifying children with unilateral PWS who need neuroimaging and determining the optimal timing of imaging. 1 Michael D. Furman, 1 Jennifer D. Simonotto, 2 Paul R. Carney, and 1 William L. Ditto ( 1 Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 2 Department of Pediatric Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Currently, neural activity and focus localization in epileptic patients is essential for pre-surgical evaluation. Several methods have been devised to locate activity by applying combinations of EEG, MEG, PET, SPECT, and fMRI. Phase-Dynamic Quantification combines Recurrence Quantification Analysis, phase correlation, and three-dimensional temporal and spatial alignment to track seizure activity along with pre- and postictal responses. Utilizing high-frequency (12?25kHz) multi-channel brain activity, we introduce a method for correlating dynamic temporal phase which permits tracking of the seizure focus. Methods: Multichannel neuronal potentials were collected synchronously over the course of 2 mos from a chronically seizing animal model of limbic epilepsy (n = 1). Arrays of tungsten microwire electrodes were stereotaxically implanted in the dentate and CA1-2 of the hippocampus. Neuronal activity was recorded at 24414.1Hz. Electrode placement and CA1-2/Dentate targeting were verified post-mortem using a high-field (17.6 Tesla) MRI brain imaging instrument. Hippocampus depth and grid recording were also obtained in humans undergoing presurgical epilepsy evaluations (n = 2). Cortical activity was recorded continuously at 400Hz. All data sets were analyzed for phase correlation. Results: In all time series analyzed, the results demonstrated a well-defined seizure path within the epileptogenic focus. In each human data set, phase correlation coincided with the seizure focus that was determined by visual analysis of temporal lobe depth and grid recordings. Figure shows dynamic moving focus phase correlation using three 400 Hz signals. Conclusions: Phase-Dynamic Quantification reveals epilepsy as a highly organized contiguous neural pathway that can be localized and tracked. This method may of clinical utility assist with seizure localization. (Supported by Office of Naval Research Funding, National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, Children's Miracle Network.) 1 Georges A. Ghacibeh, 2 Deng-Shan Shiau, 2 Linda Dance, 1 Stephan Eisenschenk, and 1,2,3 J. Chris Sackellares ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 2 Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Department of Biomedical Engeneering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Short-Term Maximum Lyapunov Exponent (STLmax) is a measure of the order of a dynamical system. Smaller STLmax values indicate that the signal is more ordered. In temporal lobe epilepsy, the dynamical properties of the preictal, ictal and postictal states are distinctly different and can be defined quantitatively. STLmax has been observed to be the lowest during a seizure, intermediate in the preictal period and highest in the postictal state. Antiepileptic medications are known to reduce seizure frequency in most epilepsy patients. We postulate that high levels of antiepileptic medications are associated with higher STLmax. The objectives of this study are to compare STLmax values from intracranial EEG recordings when patients have high, medium and low levels of antiepileptic medications. Methods: Two patients with intracranial subdural grids were recruited: patient 1 had right fronto-temporal and patient 2 had left fronto-central grids. Patients were tapered off their antiepileptic medications to record seizures. Patient 1 was on phenytoin, levetiracetam, carbamazepine and zonisamide and Patient 2 was levetiracetam and topiramate. Medication dosages were collected daily for all antiepileptic drugs during the entire monitoring period and medication levels were obtained for the older drugs. For each patient, three distinct time segments were determined based on their medication dosages and levels. Day 1: high medication levels, Day 2: medium levels and Day 3: low levels. All three segments were chosen to be at least 6 hours prior or after a seizure. For each patient, a total of 8 channels were selected for analysis. Four channels were within the epileptic focus and four outside the epileptic focus. For each analyzed electrode, STLmax was calculated for each non-overlapping 10.24 second segment (4096 EEG points in 400 Hz recording). A total of 100 mean STLmax values were randomly sampled from time intervals in each of the three medication levels. One-way ANOVA test was applied to test the significance of the effect among medication levels. If the effect was found significant, multiple comparison tests were utilized to test the significance of pairwise differences. Results: In both patients, within both epileptic and non-epileptic areas, EEG signals recorded during high medication level (day 1) exhibited significantly higher (p < 0.01) STLmax values (less ordered) than during medium (day 2) and low (day 3) medication levels. Conclusions: Antiepileptic medications have an influence on STLmax. High levels are associated with increased STLmax value. This effect may be related to the anticonvulsant properties of these medications. 1 Julie D. Golomb, 2 Michel Shamy, 2 April R. Levin, 2 Kathryn Davis, 2 Kelly A. McNally, 3 Kenneth Vives, 3 Dennis D. Spencer, 2,3 Susan S. Spencer, 2 Hitten Zaveri, and 1,2,3,4 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 2 Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; and 4 Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Prior studies suggest that temporal lobe seizures cause impaired function in widespread neocortical areas in addition to mesial temporal lobe regions. A recent study by Blumenfeld et al. (NEUROLOGY, 2004) found increased low voltage fast and polyspike ictal activity in ipsilateral mesial and lateral temporal regions, with simultaneous large amplitude ictal slowing in frontoparietal regions. However, these observations were based on subjective ratings of the intracranial EEG recordings and were not correlated with behavior. In the present study we employ quantitative analyses to more accurately describe ictal and post-ictal changes associated with various brain regions during complex and simple partial seizures. Methods: 12 Patients with surgically confirmed mesial temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent intracranial EEG monitoring and had no seizures during a follow-up period of at least 1 year after temporal lobe resection were selected for analysis. Seizures that secondarily generalized were excluded. Electrode contacts were assigned to one of nine cortical regions based on MRI surface reconstructions. Power measurements for classically defined spectral bands were calculated with the Fourier transform for the ictal and peri-ictal time periods for each EEG signal. Results: A small, brief increase in beta (13?25 Hz) and gamma (25?50 Hz) frequency power was seen in ipsilateral mesial temporal regions immediately following seizure onset. This was followed by a much larger increase in alpha (8?13 Hz), beta, gamma, and particularly theta (4?8 Hz) power in ipsilateral mesial and lateral temporal regions. Simultaneously, a large increase in delta (0?4 Hz) power was seen in lateral, medial, and orbital frontal regions, which sometimes persisted throughout the post-ictal period. Subclinical seizures involved transient changes confined to the ipsilateral mesial temporal contacts. Although considerable between-patient variability was found, individual patients showed remarkable consistency in EEG patterns across their seizures. Conclusions: Quantitative power analysis showed increased high frequency activity in temporal regions and low frequency activity in frontal regions during partial seizures of temporal lobe origin. These results support and expand upon previous studies of EEG activity positing that neocortical slowing represents a form of ?surround inhibition? during such seizures. Further analyses may reveal specific differences between EEG signals in complex and simple partial seizures, and contribute to an understanding of behavioral manifestations of temporal lobe seizures. 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to investigate whether Independent Component Analysis (ICA) can be applied in intracranial recordings to analyze interactions between the temporal lobes during temporal lobe seizures. ICA has already been used in scalp EEGs to isolate spikes from background and to help lateralize temporal lobe seizures Methods: Intracranial recordings of temporal lobe seizures from 8 patients with bitemporal implantation were analyzed. Scalp EEG recordings showed that the patients had seizures originating from both temporal lobes. The seizures of each patient were classified in four categories: unilateral right or left (UR or UL), and bilateral with right or left onset (BR or BL). ICA decomposes the EEG into as many statistically independent components as there are channels. ICA was applied to the seizures, and only components with ictal activity in the first 10 seconds of the seizure were studied. Correlation coefficients were calculated between these components and every channel of the original EEG, in the time interval preceding the appearance of bilateral activity. Components were classified as unilateral if their correlation was greater than 0.2 exclusively with channels in one hemisphere; if the correlation was greater than 0.2 with channels in both hemispheres, the component was labeled as bilateral. Nonparametric statistics were applied. Results: 46 seizures were analyzed (11 UR, 13 UL, 12 BR and 10 BL). There were five patients with seizures beginning independently in both temporal lobes, two patients with right temporal seizures only, and one patient with left temporal seizures only. Even though the correlation was calculated when seizure activity was unilateral, the proportion of components that were bilateral was significantly lower (p = 0.001) in seizures that stayed unilateral (22% for UR and 26% for UL) than in seizures that became bilateral (46% for BR and 48% for BL). There were no significant differences between right and left seizures. Bilateral seizures were significantly longer than unilateral seizures (p = 0.000), but the duration of the seizure was not significantly correlated (p > 0.05) with the proportion of bilateral components. Conclusions: In patients with bitemporal epilepsy, more than 20% of the components extracted using ICA have a bitemporal distribution even at the time when the seizures are apparently unilateral. The proportion of bilateral components during the unilateral phase is significantly higher in seizures with subsequent contralateral spread. It therefore appears that minimal contralteral seizure activity is present even when the discharge appears unilateral, and that the more such contralateral activity is present, the more the seizure is likely to spread. (Supported by CIHR Grant # MOP 38079 Postdoctoral research grant from the Department of Education of the Basque Government.) 1 C. Grova, 2 J. Daunizeau, 1 A. Bagshaw, 1 E. Kobayashi, 2 J.M. Lina, 1 F. Dubeau, and 1 J. Gotman ( 1 Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill U., Montreal, QC, Canada ; and 2 Centre de Recherche en Mathématiques, Montreal, Canada ) Rationale: The first objective is to compare two imaging modalities to better identify brain areas where spikes are generated: ? EEG source localization, which allows estimating a current density along the cortical surface at each time sample of the spike ? Simultaneous EEG/fMRI, which allows measuring the hemodynamic correlates of EEG activity Those modalities highlight several aspects of spike generation, because signals have different physiological origins and complementary spatial and temporal resolutions. Moreover, EEG source localization has no unique solution and adding prior information is necessary. The second objective is to evaluate whether it is relevant to include fMRI information in EEG source localization. Methods: 9 patients with focal epilepsy underwent EEG/fMRI examination and EEG recording outside the scanner. The EEG/fMRI protocol consists of recording 19 EEG channels inside the MR scanner. After manual detection of interictal spikes, data were analysed using a linear model combining several hemodynamic responses after each spike. T maps showing brain areas with significant fMRI responses were interpolated on the cortical surface, to compare with EEG source localization. Source localization was applied to averaged spikes recorded outside the scanner (43 channels). We applied the Maximum Entropy on the Mean (MEM) approach 1 to estimate the current density on the cortical surface at each time sample of the spike. fMRI results were compared with MEM results obtained at the peaks of the spike. The level of concordance was assessed by measuring the minimal geodesic distance D between local extrema of the fMRI and MEM maps. We also measured an index A to assess whether fMRI could be included as a prior for EEG source localization, using a hierarchical Bayesian model 2. Large positive values of A mean that fMRI data were highly relevant information regarding EEG data. Results: 3 patients did not show any fMRI response. Among the 6 other patients, MEM and fMRI results showed good concordance in 4 (D < 2.5 cm). However, qualitative analysis revealed that most exhibited concordant areas and areas unique to each modality. Our index A was in good agreement with the qualitative comparison of MEM and fMRI results. Conclusions: Our study highlights that EEG source localization and EEG/fMRI clearly explored different phenomena linked to spike generation. Brain areas involved could be concordant or complementary regarding both modalities. The index of relevance A seems promising to decide whether fMRI or a part of the fMRI map should be used as prior for source localization. By analysing more data, those approaches may provide a better understanding of the mechanisms involved during spike generation and propagation. REFERENCES 1.?Amblard C et al 2004 IEEE TBME, 51(3). 2.?Daunizeau J et al 2005 IEEE TSPS, in press (Supported by Canadian Institute of Health Research, Jeanne Timmins Costello Fellowship.) 1 Kurt E. Hecox, 1 Fengmei Lui, 1 Seaon Marler, 1 Jennifer Dwyer, 1 Michael Kohrman, 1 Arnetta McGhee, and 1 Joel Fontanarosa ( 1 Pediatrics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Dynamic Systems analysis has been applied to the study of interictal and ictal EEG data for more than a decade. Abnormalities in these measures have been reported in the detection, prediction and localization of seizures. The purpose of this study is to extend these observations to the pediatric population, to compare ictal data to three forms of baseline data and to describe some of the features of the spatial distribution of the systems changes, for multiple metrics. Methods: Intracranial and extracranial recordings were obtained from a series of pediatric aged patients undergoing evaluation for surgical treatment. Ages varied from 5 to 19 years of age. Three examples of seizures, interictal sleep, interictal awake and preictal (within one minute of seizure onset) were selected and analyzed for each patient. Metrics were calculated for correlation dimension (least squares), correlation dimension (maximum likelihood), Kolmogorov entropy, eigenvalues and Z (a global measure of nonlinearity) in each case. These metrics were calculated for at least eight surface electrodes (four over each hemisphere) and for at least 16 intracranial electrodes. The intracranial electrodes were further subdivided into ?involved? versus ?uninvolved? in the ictal event according to visual analysis. These data were subjected to analysis of variance and chi square analyses. Results: Eighty percent of the ictal events were detectable. Differences were seen between sleep and wakefulness baselines for 70% of the the group. Preictal changes were seen for 40% of the group, compared to baseline. Seemingly uninvolved electrodes show changes in these metrics both ictally and interictally. The magnitude of the change and the metris showing the changes varied across patients but eigenvalue was most commonly changed amongst the measures. Eigenvalue and correlation dimension (least squares) were the least specific spatially, while Kolmogorov entropy and Z were the most spatially specific. Conclusions: We continue to observe ictal changes in dynamic systems measures in pediatric aged patients with seizures. The measures are also abnormal in a number of patients interictally. No single metric is complete enough to stand alone, from a detection or anticipation perspective. Anticipation was possible in nearly half of the cases. The most surprising findings of this study were that electrodes felt to be ?control? or uninvolved in the seizures can show significant changes in these metrics and that the metrics vary considerably in their spatial specificity. Localizing a focus using these metrics must be performed with considerable caution. Further, the differences in spatial distribution across metrics suggest that these metrics do not all reflect the operation of a single process. (Supported by Falk Medical Trust Foundation.) 1 Christophe C. Jouny, 1 Piotr J. Franaszczuk, and 1 Gregory K. Bergey ( 1 Department of Neurology - Epilepsy Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Partial seizures originate from focal regions of epileptogenesis. The dynamic of seizure onset and pattern of ictal discharges may reflect the cerebral region of seizure onset. To date, however, these observations have been largely derived from visual analysis or simple frequency characterization. We here report detailed comparative analysis of seizure dynamics at seizure onset. Methods: We analyzed data from multiple partial seizures from patients with mesial temporal onset epilepsy (MTLE; n = 3) or with neocortical lesional epilepsy (NLE; n = 6) monitored in the epilepsy monitoring unit for presurgical evaluation with intracranial subdural grid arrays. The time-frequency decomposition was obtained with the matching pursuit (MP) method. The Gabor atom density (GAD) (Jouny et al. 2003), derived from MP, provides a measure of signal complexity. Different features of the intracranial EEG (ICEEG) or of GAD can be used to synchronize seizures. Onset of complexity increase was used to synchronize the events. Time-frequency maps reconstructed from the MP decomposition were then re-aligned and averaged. Results: GAD plots reveal that all mesial temporal onset seizures and neocortical onset seizures have an increase in complexity at seizure onset and have a reproducible pattern of onset. These consistent features can be used to synchronize the events. Because of the slight variability in timing between different phases of the seizure, one can enhance the visibility of any of these phases by choosing their feature as the synchronizing event for the re-alignment. Onset features which are not time-locked will not be enhanced by averaging. In this study, averaged seizure onsets exhibit distinguishable predominant frequency components in 5 out of 9 patients (either ?7Hz, ?15Hz, ?20Hz or ?40Hz) or activities with a broader spectral signature in 3 out of 9 patients. Conclusions: The assumption that multiple seizure onsets in a given patient have stereotypical features is based predominantly on clinical experience and visual analysis. We studied here the detailed time-frequency components of partial seizures and, by averaging their reconstructed maps, isolated the components that are common to all seizures. One of the advantage of the method was to reveal an onset pattern including high-frequency components (>40Hz) with a decreasing main frequency which was not evident on ICEEG. High-frequency components during onset might go unnoticed - especially when embedded in electrodecrement pattern of onset. High-frequency recordings and detailed time-frequency analysis can reveal the dynamic evolution of onsets and provide important information regarding timing of onset pattern and localization. (Supported by NIH grant NS 33732.) 1 Anna Korzeniewska, 2 Rafal Kus, 1 Piotr Franaszczuk, 3 Ciprian Crainiceanu, and 1 Nathan E. Crone ( 1 Department of Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; 2 Laboratory of Medical Physics, Warsaw University, Warsaw, Poland ; and 3 Department of Biostatistics, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: The cortical regions responsible for word production have been mapped with a variety of techniques, but the dynamic interactions between these cortical regions in real time have yet to be explored in depth. To investigate these interactions we recorded electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals while subjects spoke words in response to either visual or auditory stimuli, and we studied event-related gamma activity flows among different cortical regions. Methods: The short-time direct directed transfer function (SdDTF) is a new method for estimating causal interactions between different brain regions. SdDTF evaluates the direction and intensity of EEG activity flows during consecutive short-time epochs, for selected frequency bands. This multichannel approach enables comparisons of the strengths of relations between sites. ECoG signals recorded during two tasks, word repetition (auditory stimulus) and picture naming (visual stimulus), were analyzed. Event-related changes in cortical network interactions were studied with emphasis on 60?140 Hz (high gamma). Results: Auditory word stimuli were associated with activity flows mainly between sites within superior temporal gyrus (STG) and from STG to inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and to ventral sensorimotor cortex (vSMC); interactions between STG and basal temporal language area (BTLA) were also observed. In the interval between offset of the auditory word stimulus and onset of the verbal response, flows were observed predominantly from STG to IFG and BTLA. Flows between IFG, STG, and vSMC were also present. During picture naming the interval between onset of the stimulus and the verbal response was associated with many bidirectional interactions between IFG and STG, and between IFG, BTLA and vSMC. Spoken responses to both visual and auditory stimuli were associated with relatively fewer interactions, albeit involving all aforementioned sites. Conclusions: Cortical network interactions during word production predictably depend on stimulus modality. These interactions are reflected by changes in high-gamma activity flows between and within cortical regions commonly involved in language processing. (Supported by NINDS R01-NS41598.) 1 Lorant Kovacs, 2 Nandor Ludvig, 2 Orrin Devinsky, and 2 Ruben I. Kuzniecky ( 1 Software Division, ESCO, Garden Grove, CA ; and 2 Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The objective was to develop a program (?SeizureGuard?) that is ideal for recognizing/predicting EEG seizures, real-time, within the limited power resources of future, fully implanted therapeutic devices, like the hybrid neuroprosthesis. Methods: Instead of handling the EEG signals as a succession of waves, the SeizureGuard program decomposed these signals into vectors, describing each vector with its angle and magnitude. From the derived vector-stream, the program computed various neurobiologically relevant parameters, including inter-vector interval and vector-periodicity. These parameters were indexed according to their relevance to the characteristics of electrographic seizure-onsets. No complex numbers were used in the calculations. To validate the algorithm, a data miner utility program was utilized to extract continuous EEG signals from files generated with a Nicolet BMSI 6000 recording system. All recordings were obtained from temporal lobe epilepsy patients presurgically implanted with subdural strip- and grid-electrodes. Results: The program accurately recognized subclinical EEG seizures within 1?2 sec from their onset. Artifacts and non-epileptic rhythmic discharges and large-amplitude waves were not falsely indicated. Interestingly, the occasional false-positive seizure detections by the program in the interictal phase actually indicated bursts of sharp waves/spikes that occurred in the recording channel(s) of seizure activity. Conclusions: The SeizureGuard program, utilizing a computationally inexpensive algorithm that decomposes the EEG waves into vectors, is suitable for recognizing the onsets of focal subclinical seizures and has the potential to indicate epileptiform events prior to these seizures. As such, it seems to be ideal for use in implanted seizure-controlling devices. (Supported by NYU/FACES.) 1 Yuan Lai, 2 Wim Van Drongelen, 2 David M. Frim, 2 Kurt E. Hecox, and 1 Bin He ( 1 Biomedical Engineering, University of Minnesota ; and 2 Pediatrics, University of Chicago ) Rationale: In past decades, epilepsy surgery has been recognized increasingly as a viable treatment for patients with medically refractory seizures. However, the large gap between number of potential surgical candidates and number of patients being treated with surgery still exists due to the lengthy, complex, and expensive procedure of current practice of using invasive procedures to identify epileptic foci responsible for the seizures. If epileptic foci can be identified noninvasively, numerous epilepsy patients undergoing surgical treatment will benefit significantly from the noninvasive surgical planning. The aim of present study is to evaluate a novel noninvasive electrophysiological cortical imaging technique (He et al., IEEE-TBME, 46:1264?1268, 1999) to image and localize ictal activities from scalp EEG. Methods: All patients are pediatric patients with intractable partial epilepsy in the Pediatric Epilepsy Center at the University of Chicago. For each patient, multiple habitual seizures were visually identified according to the IFSECN criteria. Seizure activities with sudden propagation to whole brain were excluded from further analysis. For ictal EEG recordings with sustained rhythmic focal morphology, time-frequency analysis has been applied as preprocessing. Spatial-temporal evolution of ictal discharges were examined using wavelet analysis to obtain a time-varying energy distribution in each frequency band. The dominant frequency is determined with highest energy concentration, at which the phase encoding is used for multi-channel EEG around seizure onset to generate a scalp potential map representing the major ictal activity. The cortical imaging algorithm (He et al., 1999) was then applied to reconstruct the cortical potential distribution from the phase encoded scalp potential map. Since pediatric patients usually have seizure originating from neocortex, the estimated cortical potential generated by different underlying sources are less likely to overlap so that it can be used to observe the source activity with much less deviation as compared to that from a deeper source. Results: Five pediatric epilepsy patients by various causes were studied, who are either seizure free or having substantial seizure reduction after neurosurgical resections. For all patients, the cortical imaging analysis has been able to successfully reveal underlying epileptogenic cortical zones at different lobes (temporal or extra-temporal, one or two epileptogenic foci for each patient), which are consistent with clinical findings and confirmed by neurosurgical resections and outcomes. Conclusions: Cortical imaging can reliably localize cortical activity in regions displaying epileptiform activity; these regions were confirmed by successful surgical resection. Cortical imaging may become a useful alternative for noninvasive pre-surgical and surgical planning in pediatric epilepsy patients. (Supported by NIH EB 00178 and NSF BES-0411898.) 1 Pierre LeVan, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: The objective of this study was to devise an automated system to remove artefacts from ictal scalp EEG, using independent component analysis (ICA). Current ICA methods rely on a tedious visual identification of artefactual sources among extracted components, hence the desire for a fully automated method. Methods: 69 ictal scalp recordings from 16 epileptic patients were analyzed. The seizures were contaminated by various artefacts such as eye movements, EMG, and patient movement. For each seizure, ICA was applied to a 30s interval beginning approximately 10s before the suspected seizure onset. The extracted independent components were divided into 2s epochs and each epoch was labelled as either EEG or non-EEG. Data from half of the patients was used as a training set to induce a Bayesian network classifier, while the remaining data was reserved for use as a validation set. The classifier used the following features: component negentropy, epoch variance, spectral entropy between 5 and 30Hz, and relative power in several frequency bands. The spatial distribution of each component was then fitted with a dipole, the position of which was also used as a feature whenever the residual variance of the fit was less than 20%. For each 2s epoch, the output of the classifier was the probability that the epoch represented EEG activity. A component was considered to be artefactual if the sum of the probabilities for its 15 epochs was less than 4. To evaluate the performance of the system, an expert neurologist reviewed the original seizure recordings in the validation set and compared them with the records reconstructed after rejection of the artefactual components. A qualitative score was given with respect to the reduction of artefactual activity and the preservation of EEG activity. Results: The validation set contained 33 seizures from 8 patients. The system correctly classified 5047/5920 (85%) EEG epochs and 5628/6950 (81%) non-EEG epochs. The reviewer noted that 23 seizures were contaminated by a significant amount of artefacts. After the automated rejection of artefactual components, the reviewer determined that the majority of artefacts were removed in 17 seizures, while 5 of them had minor improvements, and only 1 record had no reduction of artefactual activity. The system preserved all the EEG activity in 17 seizures, attenuated some minor EEG activity in 4 cases, and removed some significant ictal activity in the remaining 2 cases. The automated method was also applied to the 10 seizures that did not contain significant artefacts; in 9 cases, all the EEG activity was preserved, while the remaining case had only minor EEG attenuation. Conclusions: Temporal and spatial features of ICA components were used in a Bayesian framework to classify component epochs as either EEG or non-EEG. This allowed the proposed system to automatically eliminate a large proportion of artefactual components in ictal scalp recordings, while minimally affecting the EEG activity. (Supported by NSERC CGS-M, CIHR MOP-10189.) 1 John W. Miller, 1 Wonsuk Kim, 1 Mark Holmes, and 2 Sampsa Vanhatalo ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Clinical Neurophysiology, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland ) Rationale: We recently described techniques to perform longterm DC-coupled EEG recordings at the bedside, and have used these methods to demonstrate that inspection of infraslow (<0.5 Hz) activity can correctly lateralize temporal lobe seizures (Vanhatalo et al, Neurology.60:1098, 2003). However, even high amplitude infraslow activity can sometimes be difficult to localize by simple visual inspection if there is considerable overlying faster EEG activity or obscuring slow artifact. Also, this earlier study did not investigate extratemporal seizures, which are often more difficult to localize. We address these issues with improvements in the DC-coupled EEG recording and analysis technique, and by extending our observation to seizures arising from a variety of cerebral regions. Methods: Recordings were performed on patients receiving presurgical monitoring for medically intractable localization related epilepsy with 20 seizures in 11 patients included in analysis. Recordings used a commercial system for DC-coupled recording, with sintered Ag/AgCl electrodes in a standard array defined by the 10:10 system, with additional anterior temporal electrodes, as well as subtemporal chains. Afterwards, ictal events were exported to an EEG analysis software package (BESA 5.0) to review the seizures with source montages. Recognition and localization of the infraslow signal was made easier (i) by compressing the time scale (30 to 90 seconds per screen), ii) by filtering the signal in time domain (i.e. regular high pass/low pass or band pass filtering), iii) by filtering the signal in space (e.g. with a source montage), and iv) by using a moving average to smooth the recording. The spatial filtering properties of the source montage also makes it easier to differentiate the ictal change from physiological artifacts, such as eye movements, that arise from other head regions. In addition, the time frequency characteristics of some seizures were analysed by FFT and by use of Morlet wavelets. Results: Infraslow signals were present with all focal seizures, sometimes with amplitude orders of magnitude higher than the ictal signals in the convention EEG frequency band (0.5 to 70 Hz). Analysis of these infraslow signals was a reliable localization tool. Five patients in this study received epilepsy surgery and had follow-up documenting significant seizure reduction, and analysis of infraslow signals correctly localized epileptic foci in all five, while conventional noninvasive EEG recording with visual analysis of seizures correctly localized only two. Conclusions: DC-coupled EEG recordings can give additional information that is clinically useful to noninvasively localize the epileptogenic focus. The value of this method is increased by source analysis tools that can reveal highly localized changes more clearly than direct visual inspection. (Supported by The UW Regional Epilepsy Center.) 1 Victoria L. Morgan, 2 Eliane Kobayashi, 2 Andrew Bagshaw, 2 Colin Hawco, 3 Bassel Abou-Khalil, 2 Francois Dubeau, and 2 Jean Gotman ( 1 Radiology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ; 2 Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, Canada ; and 3 Neurology, Vanderbilt Unversity, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Simultaneous fMRI and EEG may localize the generators of interictal spikes recorded on scalp EEG. Temporal clustering analysis (TCA) is a method to analyze fMRI images independently of EEG information. TCA seeks to identify resting state activations related to the epileptogenic zone. The objective of this study was to compare the results of these two analyses in a series of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Methods: BOLD fMRI images were acquired in 22 TLE patients on a 1.5T MRI scanner with simultaneous continuous EEG in two-hour sessions at the MNI (64 ?64 ?25, 5mm ? 5mm ? 5mm, TR = 3sec, 120 volumes per series, 8?10 series per patient). For EEG-BOLD analysis, EEGs were processed offline and spikes were identified in the filtered EEG for event-related analysis. For the TCA-BOLD analysis, only the first three series were used. Data were analyzed by previously published TCA methods in which a histogram is created indicating the number of voxels that reach at least 80% of their maximum at each time point. Activated regions were determined by using a fixed-effects analysis of the three series. The concordance of the temporal lobe activation identified by the two methods and the temporal lobe spikes were assessed. Patients were divided into those with unilateral and those with bilateral independent temporal lobe spikes on EEG. One patient's fMRI was not analyzed due to excess motion. Results: Fourteen patients had unilateral spikes on EEG: 12/14 had TCA-BOLD temporal activation (6 were ipsilateral to the EEG spikes, and 2 had bilateral activation with predominance ipsilateral to the spikes) and 9/14 showed EEG-BOLD activation (2 were ipsilateral to the EEG spikes, 5 had bilateral activation with predominance ipsilateral to the spikes, one had bilateral activation with no side predominance). Seven patients had bilateral independent temporal spikes on EEG: all patients showed TCA-BOLD activation in the temporal lobes, but it was bilateral (concordant with the EEG) in 3; 4/7 patients showed EEG-BOLD temporal lobe activation, bilateral in 3. Overall, we observed an agreement between both methods in 7/11 patients. Conclusions: Activations in the temporal lobes were detected in 90% of patients using TCA-BOLD and in 68% using EEG-BOLD. TCA, which has the advantage of not using the information from the EEG, was concordant with EEG-BOLD analysis in 64% of those who showed activations, and disclosed responses not present in the former one in 5. TCA-BOLD could lateralize the underlying structural MRI lesion in 52% of the patients, similar to that observed with EEG-BOLD analysis (48%). More development is required for both methods. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Preston Robb MNI fellowship, and Savoy Foundation for Epilepsy.) 1 Amit Mukherjee, 2 Pradeep Modur, and 1 Nicolaos Karayiannis ( 1 Electrical  and 2 Neurology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: We describe a novel method for detection of seizure onset using a quantum neural network (QNN) that was progressively trained by quantitative features (in both the time and frequency domains) extracted from intracranial EEG (iEEG) signals. QNNs are particularly helpful in the classification of uncertain data without any restricting assumptions. [Purushothaman and Karayiannis, IEEE Trans Neural Networks 1997; 8:679?693]. Methods: Raw iEEG data (subdural and depth recordings) from 4 subjects, sampled at 1000 Hz, were analyzed. Bandpass was set from 1.6 to 300 Hz. Seizure onset was marked at the time of earliest change in EEG. The EEG segment, 10 sec before and after seizure onset, was divided into onset epochs (OE), each of 2 sec length, with 50% overlap between consecutive epochs. Background epoch (BE) was defined as the average of 30-sec EEG during the interictal period, preceding the OE by at least 2 min. The signal was decomposed using a Daub-2 wavelet and scales 2 to 6 (corresponding to frequency bins 250?125, 125?63, 63?32, 32?16, 16?8 and 8?4 Hz respectively) were used for feature analysis. Two parameters were computed for each scale: relative energy (ratio of the energy in a given scale in the OE to the energy of the same scale in the BE); average of the distribution tail (ratio of the average of the top 80th percentile squared coefficient to the average of the squared coefficient for a given scale). In addition to this average peak-to-peak amplitude and curve length (measure relating to the fractal dimension) of the OE are also computed and used as features. QNN was initially trained using seizure onset patterns from multiple subjects. With each subsequent seizure, the QNN was progressively re-trained by populating the training with 50% of the epochs belonging to the last seizure, 25% belonging to the previous to last seizure and 25% from a bank containing a variety of patterns from multiple subjects. Decision-making was based on the inherent ability of the QNN to identify and quantify uncertainty, represented by its output values between 0 (non-seizure) and 1 (seizure), in conjuction with a spatio-temporal rule. Thus, seizure onset was reported when the activity was observed in at least 2 adjacent channels and the activity was sustained for at least 6 sec (with QNN output value >0.65). If a channel had reported seizure in the past, its membership threshold was reduced to 0.4 and the spatio-temporal rule was applied. The QNN classifier was tested on 8 seizures from 2 subjects (each with 4 seizures). Results: All the seizure onsets (100%) were detected using the above method. There were only a few false detections. Conclusions: Progressively trained QNNs appear to be promising in detection of intracranial seizure onset. Further investigation will focus on detection of a wider variety of seizure onset patterns in multiple subjects and different decision-making strategies. 1 Ayako Ochi, 1 Hiroshi Otsubo, 1 Ryoichi Iwata, 1 Takanori Funaki, 1 Tomoyuki Akiyama, 1 Rohit Sharma, 1 Shelly K. Weiss, 1 Elizabeth Donner, 1 Irene Elliott, 2 James T. Rutka, and 1 O. Carter Snead III ( 1 Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ; and 2 Neurosurgery, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: High frequency oscillations (HFOs) in the frequency range of 80 Hz and higher has been investigated from ictal subdural EEG data in patients with intractable localization-related epilepsy. Multiple band frequency analysis (MBFA) provides high resolution of frequency changes and time courses in HFOs. We studied ictal HFOs from extraoperative video subdural EEG monitoring (SDEEG) using MBFA to characterize patterns of HFOs in children with intractable neocortical epilepsy. Methods: We retrospectively studied 8 children (3 girls and 5 boys; mean age, 14 years; range, 8 to 17 years) who presented with intractable neocortical epilepsy and underwent SDEEG consisting of 48 to 116 contacts (AD-TECH Medical instrument corporation, Racine, WI, USA). We recorded SDEEG for 48 to 144 hours with 1,000 Hz sampling rate (HARMONY 5.4, Stellate, Montreal, PQ, Canada). We analyzed 4 to 11 seizures by selecting SDEEG data epochs of 10 to 50 seconds including 5 seconds before the ictal EEG onset. We used MBFA using the software program Short Spectrum Eye (Gram, Saitama, Japan) for frequency and distribution analyses of HFOs. The power spectrograms of frequency bands between 5 Hz to 300 Hz were calculated with a frequency resolution of 2 Hz and a temporal resolution of 25 ms. We arranged all power spectrograms in the same order as subdural grid electrodes and evaluated the distribution of HFOs. Results: Seven of 8 patients presented with regionally predominant ictal HFO changes (mean, 23 electrodes). We found two patterns of HFOs consisting of existence or absence of sustained narrow band of HFOs. Four of 7 patients had initial wide range of HFOs (up to 115 Hz) lasting 2 to 5 seconds before the clinical seizure onset, followed by a sustained narrow band of HFOs (mean, 101 Hz) during ictal symptom of partial seizures. The seizures in these 4 patients evolved into secondary generalization. The other three patients had wide range of HFOs (up to 214 Hz) before and after the clinical onset without following sustained narrow band of HFOs. They presented with brief partial seizures in cluster in one patient, epileptic spasms in 2, but they did not evolved into secondarily generalized seizures. The cortical resection areas in 7 patients included the region of predominant HFOs (mean maximum frequency, 138 Hz). They achieved good postsurgical outcomes. The remaining one patient had no regionally predominant ictal HFO changes. This patient has residual partial seizures after frontal cortical excision. Conclusions: MBFA characterized 2 patterns of ictal HFO changes between seizures with and without secondarily generalized in pediatric neocortical epilepsy. The regionally predominant ictal HFOs represented the ictal onset and ictal symptomatogenic zones. 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Florian Mormann, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Dept. of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: Patients suffering from intractable focal epilepsy may benefit from neurosurgical resection of the epileptic focus provided it can be identified via electroencephalographic recording of the seizure onset. A question of interest is whether the focus can be reliably identified from interictal recordings, i.e. without the necessity of observing seizures. Measurements of the synchronization between different EEG channels have been found to be promising for this purpose. Up to now, a number of measures for synchronization have been proposed based on different approaches. In this study a comparison between different linear and nonlinear synchronization measures was performed with respect to two aspects: 1. general performance of the measures in terms of their ability to discriminate the ipsi- from the contralateral hemisphere, 2. comparison of different measures to investigate whether the different approaches render complementary or redundant information. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, each equipped with 10 recording contacts and implanted stereotactically along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampal formation. The total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Several measures of synchronization were calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique, and then averaged over time. For each of the measures the average spatial synchronization in each hemisphere was calculated. A detection of the focal hemisphere was carried out for all measures and patients based on the assumption of a higher average synchronization in the focal hemisphere. True and false lateralizations were compared for different measures. Results: Correct lateralization based on higher synchronization of the focal hemisphere was found to be statistically significant for all measures investigated, although actual performance differed among the investigated measures. False lateralizations for different measures ranged between 6 and 8 out of 30. A comparison of correct and false lateralizations showed a strong similarities between measures. Conclusions: The focal hemisphere in an epileptic brain is characterized by a pathological increase in synchronization. The different measures investigated in this study appear to be sensitive to this increased synchronization. Lateralization analysis using synchronization measures could render additional diagnostic information, although the false lateralizations found in this study could limit its clinical applicability. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1 Houman Khosravani, 2 Robert Pinnegar, 2 Ross Mitchell, and 1 Paolo Federico ( 1 Department of Radiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Univeristy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Visualization of time-frequency changes in EEG has traditionally been visualized using Fourier-based techniques (i.e. Short Time Fourier Transform, STFT). This approach is limited given its fixed-length analysis window and the non-stationary nature of EEG signals. The S Transform is a Fourier-based multi-resolution transform that has a variable length analysis window, thus circumventing the shortcomings of the STFT. In the present study, we introduce a novel application of the S Transform for visualization of normal and epileptiform EEG phenomena in humans. Methods: Selected recordings from five normal subjects and five patients with either focal or generalized epileptiform discharges were used. We identified a single channel that had a clear example of an electrographic feature of interest (e.g. alpha, mu, sleep spindles, eye blink, spike and wave, sharp wave) and applied the S Transform to it. Results: The S Transform provided clear visualization of the frequency components, in time, of the electrographic events. Some of the spectral attributes of these events were not immediately apparent on conventional review of the EEG. Conclusions: The application of the S Transform to EEG is novel and can potentially be a useful tool for visualizing clinically relevant features in EEG. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research.) 1 Catherine Schevon, 2 Joshua Cappell, 3 Werner Doyle, 3 Howard Weiner, 2 Robert Goodman, 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, and 2 Ronald Emerson ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurological Institute, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The presence of localized synchronization of neuronal activity in epilepsy has been well documented in microelectrode and clinical intracranial EEG (ICEEG) recordings. An intriguing hypothesis about the development of epilepsy is that a cortical region, when potentiated by repeated seizures, becomes chronically biased, leading to hypersynchrony. Thus, brain regions most involved in epileptogenesis are marked by chronic local hypersynchrony (LH). In this study, we discuss and illustrate the use of the mean phase synchrony measure to detect and map patterns of locally hypersynchronous neuronal activity in long term ICEEG recordings obtained during the epilepsy presurgical evaluation. Methods: Seven patients with different epilepsy syndromes were studied. Three 5 minute interictal samples from different monitoring days were tested in each case. Two seizures from each patient were studied, with 30 second samples taken from the preictal, ictal, and postictal periods. Interelectrode synchrony was measured using the mean phase coherence algorithm, which calculates the degree of phase locking independent of amplitude. Pairwise synchrony over one-second epochs was calculated for all adjacent channels of a subdural grid located over or near the clinically determined seizure onset zone. LH regions were defined as a set of contiguous channel pairs with average synchrony greater than one standard deviation above the mean for the entire grid. Results: Chronic LH regions were found in all seven patients, with these characteristics: (1) LH persisted over long recording periods and was state-independent. (2) Each patient had a unique pattern of LH regions with different anatomical distributions. (3) In each case, an LH area was associated with the clinically identified the seizure onset zone. (4) In peri-ictal recordings, there was a relative focal desynchronization preictally, a prominent finding in two patients but present to some degree in all seven, and enhanced hypersynchrony postictally. Conclusions: These findings suggest that local hypersynchrony in the EEG is related to abnormalities that underly partial epilepsy. This identification may prove useful in several areas. First, clinical EEG interpretation may be enhanced by using synchrony measurements to help define epileptogenic networks. Second, the described properties may be investigated to shed light on epileptogenic mechanisms. Third, knowledge of network structure and function may lead to improved techniques for disrupting the network to prevent seizures through resection, on-site neurostimulation, or local drug delivery. Fourth, these observations may lead to improved techniques for automated seizure prediction and detection. FACES 1,7 Deng-Shan Shiau, 2,7 Chang-Chia Liu, 2,7 Wichai Suharitdamrong, 2 Panos M. Pardalos, 1,3?5 Paul R. Carney, and 1,3?7 J. Chris Sackellares ( 1 Neuroscience, University of Florida ; 2 Industrial and Systems Engineering ; 3 Pediatrics ; 4 Biomedical Engineering ; 5 Neurology ; 6 Psychiatry, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 7 Malcolm Randall VA Medical Center, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Rapid identification of patients with independent bitemporal seizure onset zones could greatly reduce presurgical evaluation costs. We describe a novel method to identify patients with independent bilateral seizure foci based on a nonlinear characteristic of EEG signals. Signal nonlinear characteristic is quantified by the statistical difference of Short-Term Maximum Lyapunov Exponent (STLmax) values estimated from the original EEG signals and its surrogate dataset. Methods: Eight adults with temporal lobe epilepsy (5 with unilateral temporal onsets and 3 with independent bilateral onsets) were included in this study. Long-term EEG recordings from bilaterally placed depth and subdural electrodes (left and right temporal depth, subtemporal and orbitofrontal) were analyzed. Initial analyses involved the following steps: (1) each EEG signal was divided into 10.24 sec epochs and 10 surrogate EEG time series were generated, (2) STLmax values were estimated for each epoch of the original EEG signal and each of the 10 surrogate EEG signals, (3) T-index, derived from pair-T statistics, was calculated to measure the statistical difference in STLmax values between the original signal and mean values estimated from the 10 surrogate EEGs. Nested two-way ANOVA was applied to test the significance of the brain region effect (patients were random blocks; seizures were nested within patient). Significance level = 0.05 was applied for rejection of the null hypothesis. Results: For each of the five patients with unilateral seizure onset, statistical test revealed that the nonlinear characteristics of EEG signals derived from mesial temporal electrodes within the seizure onset zone are significantly different from those from other areas (p < 0.01). In contrast, the nonlinear characteristics of EEG are not different (p > 0.05) among recording areas in all three patients who experienced bilateral seizure onsets. These differences were present throughout the recording, even before the first seizure was recorded. Conclusions: The results of this study suggest that it may be possible to efficiently and quantitatively determine whether a patient is likely to have unilateral temporal or independent bitemporal seizure onsets, based on analysis of the nonlinear characteristics of the EEG signal. In these patients, the findings were robust and persistent. Further studies in a large sample of patients will be required to determine whether or not this approach will have utility in selecting candidates for resective surgery. (Supported by NIH Grant RO1EB002089 and Department of Veterans Affairs.) 1 Steven Schachter, 2 Ali Shoeb, 3 Blaise Bourgeois, 4 S. Ted Treves, and 2 John Guttag ( 1 Departments of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA ; 2 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, MA ; 3 Departments of Neurology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA ; and 4 Nuclear Medicine, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA ) Rationale: The accurate detection of electrographic seizure onsets with an ambulatory system could potentially be used to trigger an acute intervention to limit seizure progression/duration, and could also serve to notify a caregiver or disable harmful elements in the patient's environment (eg, a gas stove that is lit). Methods: We implemented a patient-specific seizure detection algorithm (Shoeb A, et al. Epilepsy Behav 2004; 5:483?498) on a small digital signal processor (DSP; TM320C6711, Texas Instruments), and streamed previously recorded ambulatory EEGs from two patients to the DSP at a rate of 200 samples/sec per channel. For each EEG, we noted the sensitivity and specificity of seizure detections, and the latency with which the algorithm declared seizure onset following the initial electroencephalographic changes. Results: The algorithm trained on seizure-free EEG epochs and 7 electrographic seizures uniformly sampled over the duration of the two EEG studies. The figure shows the average latency for detection of seizure onsets once the electroencephalographic changes began. The algorithm detected 70/72 seizure onsets (30/31 for patient #1, and 41/42 for patient #2), and declared 2 false detections (0 for patient #1, and 2 for patient #2) in 5.5 hours (2 hours for patient #1, 3.5 hours for patient #2) of ambulatory EEG epochs uniformly sampled over a 36-hour period (20 hours for patient #1, and 16 hours for patient #2). The figure also compares how soon following electrographic seizure onset patient #1 became symptomatic (indicated by pressing the event button). Patient #2 was unaware of his seizures and therefore did not press the event button. Conclusions: These preliminary results demonstrate the high sensitivity and specificity of seizure onset detections using our algorithm and the feasibility of detecting seizures in the ambulatory setting within seconds of electrographic seizure onset and before symptoms occur. Further evaluation of our detection methodology on pre-recorded as well as on-line ambulatory EEG studies is underway. (Supported by Center for Integration of Medicine and Innovative Technology (CIMIT); MIT Project Oxygen Partnership.) 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Pierre LeVan, 1 François Dubeau, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute,McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: High frequency activity in the intracerebral EEG of epileptic patients has been described in recent studies using microelectrodes. We report changes in high frequency activity immediately following epileptic spikes in intracerebral recordings obtained from macroelectrodes. Methods: Eight patients with intractable epilepsy were evaluated; 4 had mesial temporal epilepsy (MT) and 4 neocortical epilepsy (N). EEGs from stereotaxically placed depth electrodes were filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz. Spikes were classified according to their localization and morphology, with 60 spikes in each type. Segments of 256ms were selected immediately following each spike (post-spike), and 2s before each spike (baseline). Log-spectral power was estimated in 4 frequency bands: slow (0?40Hz), gamma (40?100Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), and very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz). Changes between post-spike periods and baselines were assessed for each channel (Wilcoxon test, p < 0.01). Results: 25 types of spike were identified (16 MT, 9 N). Changes were seen in 14 types of spike in HF (10 MT, 4 N) and in 11 types in VHF (8 MT, 3 N). Changes in VHF were always associated with changes in HF. In 9 types of spike (7 MT, 2 N), there was an increase in slow activity corresponding to a visible slow wave, but also a decrease in fast activity. These changes occurred in the hippocampus and neocortex. In 6 types of spike (5 MT, 1 N), there was an increase in slow activity despite the absence of a visible slow wave and an increase in fast activity. These changes occurred mostly in the amygdala, even though the spike was minimal in that area. The same pattern was observed in the hippocampus in two types of spikes in one patient. Finally, there was one type of spike with a decrease in fast activity without changes in slow activity. Overall, changes in VHF activity were spatially more restricted than changes in HF and gamma bands. Conclusions: A significant proportion of spikes were followed by changes in high frequency activity, more often in mesial temporal than neocortical spikes. Slow waves following spikes were generally associated with a decrease in HF and VHF compared to baseline. Changes in high frequency were clearest in channels where the spikes were most prominent, while changes at lower frequencies were more widespread. In many instances, there was an increase in high frequencies in the amygdala, even though the spike was not prominent in this region. This study demonstrates that high frequency activity can be recorded with macroelectrodes and has significant changes in epileptic discharges. The reduction in HF and VHF following spikes may reflect a profound inhibition that is more marked in the region of spike generation. The amygdala behaves differently from the hippocampus and neocortex, not showing this reduction in fast activity. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research Department of Education of Basque Government.) 1 Anneleen Vergult, 1 Wim De Clercq, 1 Bart Vanrumste, 1 Sabine Van Huffel, 2 Johan Van Hees, 2 André Palmini, and 2 Wim Van Paesschen ( 1 Electrical Engineering, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ; and 2 Neurology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to develop and investigate the performance of automated muscle artifact removal from ictal electroencephalograms (EEG) based on canonical correlation analysis (CCA). Methods: CCA separated a 10s EEG epoch in a set of components (or sources) with a decreasing autocorrelation index (AI). It has been noticed that muscle artifact components have a lower AI than genuine EEG components. A neurologist removed muscle artifact from 317 epochs of ictal EEG of 40 patients by gradually removing the components starting from the one with the lowest AI. The neurologist determined subjectively the separation point where as much muscle activity was removed as possible, without affecting the brain activity significantly. This yielded a gold standard binary classification of the CCA components into muscle artifact components and EEG components. Next a fully automated classification of each CCA component was performed based on the ratio of spectral energy of the frequency band 25?50Hz to the band 10?15Hz. It is anticipated a large value of this feature will be observed when muscle activity is present in a component. The optimal feature threshold was selected by maximally remaining EEG components and maximally suppressing muscle artifact components. Results: The developed automated method was able to remain on average 99±0.3% of the EEG component energy, while removing on average 71±33% of the muscle artifact component energy. Conclusions: An automated muscle artifact removal technique was presented, that could be used as pre-processing step in the early detection of ictal activity or as a filter in the visual evaluation of ictal EEG.Currently the same EEG's are being processed by other neurologists, to investigate the user dependency of the optimal separation point to obtain a more generalized gold standard which can improve the robustness of the automated muscle artifact elimination. (Supported by European network of excellence BIOPATTERN (FP6-2002-IST-508803) and Fund for Scientific Research Flanders FWO research project nr G.0360.05. Bart Vanrumste is funded by the ?Programmatorische Federale Overheidsdienst Wetenschapsbeleid? of the Belgian Government.) 1 Cesar Viteri, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Jorge Iriarte, 1 Manuel Alegre, 1 Miguel Valencia, and 1 Julio Artieda ( 1 Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, CUN, CIMA, Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain ) Rationale: Independent component analysis (ICA) is a system that differentiates components of complex signals. One of its capabilities is to study the epileptiform discharges to demonstrate similar or different origin of its components. The goal of this study was to discover how ICA analyse the discharges in the benign centrospikes, to understand better this kind of idiopathic epilepsy. Methods: We analysed 15 discharges of 3 patients with benign centrotemporal epilepsy. Their morphology was sharp wave, spike or spike-and-wave. The samples were recorded digitally with a 32-channels Lamont amplifiers and Harmonie 5.2b program. ICA was applied using the JADE algorithm implemented in a Matlab platform. The components were identified visually. The suspected components were selected and the EEG of these components by itself and together were reconstructed. The topography in each component of the discharge was compared with the original using the BESA program in the same period. Results: The spikes and waves were located in different components. Spikes were separated in one (n = 10), two (n = 4) or three (n = 1) components, with delay between their maximums of 5?10 ms. The waves were isolated in other one or two components. Their topography was centrotemporal, very similar but not identical. The lateralization of each component was variable between components of the same spike, and it could be right, left or bilateral. Each component of the spike fit very well with the EEG in the correspondent time. The topography of the components from different spikes of the same patient varied slightly in the localisation. Conclusions: ICA differentiates several components with temporal evolution in the epileptiform discharges in centrotemporal epilepsy. In most of the discharges, the spike and the wave had different components suggesting different origin. Their topography was centrotemporal, similar but variable in the lateralization and localisation. In each patient the way of analysis of the discharge was very similar but not identical. 1 Chunmao Wang, 2 Istvan Ulbert, 1 Werner K. Doyle, 1 Orrin Devinsky, 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, and 3,4 Eric Halgren ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York, NY ; 2 Institute of Psychology, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary ; 3 Massachusetts General Hospital NMR Center, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA ; and 4 INSERM, Marseille, France ) Rationale: To study spatio-temporal stages in word processing, both current source density in cortex laminars and subdural potentials were recorded. Methods: Laminar multiple microelectrodes and clinical macroelectrodes were chronically implanted in epilepsy patients undergoing subdural grid and depth implantation for seizure localization. The patients participated in several cognitive tasks during their normal alert status. Three of them were visual word recognition tasks, in which the patients were requested to decide if a word: (1) presented an animal or object longer than one foot; (2) rhymed in ?AY; ? or 3) ended in ?ED? for its past tense. Another task was auditory version of the size judgment task, in which a computer speaker instead of a monitor presented the stimuli. In all four tasks, half of the words were presented during practice stages prior to test, so repetition effect was expected. Results: Extensive overlapping responses were recorded in frontal, temporal, and occipital cortices. In visual cortex, the earliest response was peaking at ?140 ms. For auditory stimuli, the earliest auditory response was in superior temporal cortex, peaking at ?100 ms, and the largest response was in adjacent area [still in superior temporal cortex], starting from ?120 ms and peaking at ?300 ms. These responses were equivalent to new and repeated words. However, there were significant differential responses from ?500?1000 ms to new versus repeated words, for both auditory and visual stimuli, mainly in medial and ventral temporal areas. Laminar electrodes in adjacent areas measured a sink and source complex, with a greater response to new words during the same time range. Conclusions: For both micro and macro recording, word repetition does not affect the initial processing stage but decreases later activity. These differential responses appeared to represent the N4-P3b. (Supported by NS18741 and NS44623.) 1,2 Matthias Winterhalder, 1,2 Bjoern Schelter, 2 Thomas Maiwald, 2 Ariane Schad, 3 Armin Brandt, 1,2 Jens Timmer, and 1,3 Andreas Schulze-Bonhage ( 1 Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ; 2 Center for Data Analysis and Modeling, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ; and 3 Epilepsy Center, University Hospital Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ) Rationale: Reliable and early prediction of epileptic seizures would open new routes for therapeutic interventions in patients with pharmacorefractory epilepsy. As seizures are characterized by an abnormal synchronization of neurons, multivariate time series analysis techniques detecting synchronized dynamics in invasive EEG recordings of epilepsy patients are a promising approach. Here, we have investigated two synchronization measures originating from the theory of Nonlinear Dynamics with respect to their potential role for epileptic seizure prediction. Methods: Two quantities measuring phase and lag synchronization have been applied to an invasive EEG data pool of 21 patients each with 24 hours of seizure-free recordings and 2?5 pre-seizure periods. Synchronization changes have been examined in different brain structures analyzing focal electrode contacts, i.e. early involved in ictal activity, as well as extra-focal electrode contacts, i.e. not involved in ictal activity or only involved lately during seizure spread. The seizure prediction performance has been assessed by the methodology of the seizure prediction characteristic. The seizure prediction characteristic evaluates sensitivity of a prediction method with respect to its specificity and temporal aspects of a prediction. Comparing with the probability to predict seizures by chance, a test is utilized to decide about the statistical significance. Results: Compared to a random prediction, a significantly better seizure prediction performance has been shown for half of the patients. Both decreasing and increasing synchronization in the EEG dynamics could precede seizures. Regarding the topography of brain structures investigated, a statistical significant superiority of combinations between one focal and one extra-focal electrode contact could be demonstrated for the lag synchronization measure (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Preictal changes in the synchronization of the EEG dynamics may offer a chance for epileptic seizure prediction. Our study shows that the seizure prediction performance differs between patients and strongly depends on the analysis technique applied and the brain structure investigated. (Supported by German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF grant 01GQ0420) and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Ti 315/2-1).) 1 John Zempel, 2 Justin L. Vincent, 2 Linda J. Larson-Prior, and 2 Abraham Z. Snyder ( 1 Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; and 2 Radiology and NeuroImaging Laboratory, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: The ballistocardiogram (BKG) is a significant source of artifact in scalp EEG recorded in the static magnetic field characteristic of human MRI scanners. Multiple methods (averaging, ICA, adaptive filtering) have been successfully employed by others to reduce the BKG. A new method of identifying BKG is used to biologically characterize the BKG across multiple electrodes and subjects. Methods: Simultaneous EEG and fMRI recordings were made from twelve subjects. Greater than than ten hours of EEG containing BKG. EEG-fMRI was recorded in a 3 Tesla Siemens Allegra MR scanner using a Neuroscan (El Paso, TX) Synamps/2 amplifier and Maglink cap and cabling system with Scan 4.5 software. Standard 10/20 electrode positions were collected at a 20 kHz sampling rate and the gradient artifact greatly reduced with Scan 4.5 with decimation of the EEG signal to 500 Hz. 10?20 electrodes were referenced to a common electrode halfway between CZ and CPZ). Two additional processing steps were developed to reduce the BKG (Vincent, et al, Soc Neuroscience Abstracts 2005). First, a custom template based beat detector program, which identifies EKG patterns that represent single heart beats, was used to provide accurate triggering. Second, a moving general linear model was used to generate models of the BKG. The extracted BKG signal was characterized by standard averaging and forward FFT techniques. Results: The BKG waveforms recovered by the GLM technique consistently included components outlasting the mean inter-beat interval in all (12/12) subjects and all 10?20 electrodes. Thus, as the waveforms due to successive beats inconsistently overlap, simple averaging cannot adequately characterize and reduce the BKG artifact. The BKG is large at 3 T. The positive to negative peak variation in the BKG is always more than 100 microvolts, and the largest components are most frequently several hundred microvolts in size in the O1-Ref electrode. The frequency content of the BKG is complicated. In addition to the frequency of the heart rate itself, bimodal peaks at 3?5 Hz and 8?10 Hz are present in the BKG, which contaminate frequency ranges needed to recover standard EEG. When the power spectral density of each electrode is averaged across subjects, the frequency bin with peak power varies over the scalp. Conclusions: BKG recorded at 3 Tesla represents a significant electrical signal that must be successfully removed to obtain EEG that represents brain activity. In addition to removing the BKG, biological characterization of the BKG across multiple subjects allows determination of the nature and variability of this signal. BKG itself is spatially variable in size and frequency content across the scalp. These observations constrain theoretical accounts of BKG origin, which presently remain incomplete. (Supported by K12NS01690 for John Zempel and NS06833 (laboratory of Marcus Raichle).)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Prociv, Paul
TI  - Deaths of Australian travellers overseas
JO  - Medical Journal of Australia
JA  - Medical Journal of Australia
VL  - 163
IS  - 1
SN  - 0025-729X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.5694/j.1326-5377.1995.tb126084.x
DO  - doi:10.5694/j.1326-5377.1995.tb126084.x
SP  - 27
EP  - 30
PY  - 1995
AB  - ObjectiveTo determine the number and causes of deaths of Australian citizens who died overseas in a 12-month period. DesignRetrospective survey of deaths reported to the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade by Australian embassies, high commissions and consulates for the period July 1992 to June 1993. Data on Australians travelling overseas were obtained from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. ResultsDuring the year 1992-1993, 2 299 500 Australians travelled overseas for less than 12 months (short term travellers), with an estimated mean trip duration of 6.3 weeks. Another 65 450 left for more than 12 months (long term travellers), and 27 910 left permanently (residents). Of the 421 recorded deaths, 289 were in short term travellers, 108 in long term travellers/residents and 24 in members of work parties. The annual crude mortality rate for short term travellers and work party members was estimated at about 0.1%. Men outnumbered women almost 4:1. Death rates increased with age, reflecting underlying medical problems in older travellers, with heart disease being the leading cause (146 deaths, 35%). Fatal trauma predominated in younger people. Accidents, mainly in traffic, accounted for 77 deaths (18%) and infections for 10 (2.4%), including two cases of malaria. Death rates varied between geographical regions, with New Zealand being the safest destination. ConclusionsThe risk of an Australian dying while travelling overseas is probably little different from that while staying home. The low level of fatal infections may result from preventive measures. Travellers should be aware of the danger of accidents, particularly traffic accidents, while overseas.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Iwenofu, O.H.
AU  - Adelson, D.
AU  - Crowson, A.N.
TI  - A Case of Pseudorheumatoid Nodule Arising in a Previous Site of Squamous Cell Carcinoma.
JO  - Journal of Cutaneous Pathology
VL  - 32
IS  - 1
SN  - 0303-6987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320db.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320db.x
SP  - 94
EP  - 95
PY  - 2005
AB  - The pseudorheumatoid nodule (PRN) is a subcutaneous palisading granuloma characterized by a pattern of interstitial histiocytes surrounding an area of collagen necrobiosis and typically unassociated with rheumatoid arthritis. It is part of the spectrum of palisading granulomatous dermatitidis which includes the rheumatoid nodule, the rheumatic fever nodule, the spirochaete-associated juxtarticular nodes of Lyme disease, granuloma annulare, necrobiosis lipoidica and the palisading granuloma of Churg and Strauss. PRN has previously been associated with surgical trauma and with retained suture material at old surgical sites. We present a case of PRN arising in a previous biopsy site of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). A 48-year-old woman with no history of rheumatoid arthritis or a granulomatous diathesis underwent biopsy of a keratotic left forearm skin lesion on 10/14/03 that showed invasive SCC. She had a re-excision of the the same site on 11/22/03 that grossly showed a central scar. Histology revealed a scar at the site of a recent biopsy with no residual SCC, in the base of which was an area of necrosis palisaded by histiocytes. No residual suture or other polarizable foreign material was identified. Pancytokeratin and Epithelial Membrane Antigen immunostains were negative. The morphology is considered prototypic for PRN.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - MALIK, R
AU  - GABOR, LJ
AU  - FOSTER, SF
AU  - McCORKELL, BE
AU  - CANFIELD, PJ
TI  - Therapy for Australian cats with lymphosarcoma
JO  - Australian Veterinary Journal
VL  - 79
IS  - 12
SN  - 0005-0423
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1751-0813.2001.tb10923.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1751-0813.2001.tb10923.x
SP  - 808
EP  - 817
KW  - Lymphosarcoma
KW  - malignant lymphoma
KW  - cat
KW  - feline leukaemia virus
KW  - feline immunodeficiency virus
KW  - chemotherapy
KW  - doxorubicin
KW  - l-asparaginase
PY  - 2001
AB  - Objective To determine the response of Australian cats with lymphosarcoma to chemotherapy and/or surgery in relation to patient and tumour characteristics, haematological and serum biochemical values and retroviral status. Design Prospective study of 61 client-owned cats with naturally-occurring lymphosarcoma subjected to multi-agent chemotherapy and/or surgery. Procedure An accepted chemotherapy protocol utilising l-asparaginase, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, methotrexate and prednisolone was modified and used to treat 60 cats with lymphosarcoma. Clinical findings were recorded before and during therapy. As far as practical, cases were followed to death, euthanasia or apparent cure. Owner satisfaction with the results of chemotherapy was determined using a questionnaire sent after the completion of chemotherapy. Results One cat, with lymphosarcoma limited to a single mandibular lymph node, was treated using surgery alone and was cured. The other 60 cats were treated using multi-agent chemotherapy, although seven cats with localised intestinal, ocular and subcutaneous lesions had these lesions partially (2 intestinal lesions) or completely (2 eyes, 2 intestinal lesions and a cluster of regional lymph nodes) resected prior to starting chemotherapy. The median survival time for these 60 cats was 116 days. Of the 60 cats, 48 rapidly went into complete remission following the administration of l-asparaginase, vincristine and prednisolone (complete remission rate 80%) and these cats had a median survival of 187 days. Three cats were censored from further analysis as their long-term survival data were uninterpretable because they died of causes unrelated to lymphosarcoma or were prematurely lost to follow-up. Twenty cats were classed as ?long-term survivors? based on survival time in excess of one year and at least 14 were ?cured? based on the absence of physical evidence of lymphosarcoma 2-years after initiating treatment. In other words, of the 48 cats that reached complete remission, in excess of 29% were ?cured?. Despite detailed analysis, few meaningful prognostic indicators based on patient or tumour characteristics were identified, although long-term survivors were more likely to be less than 4-years (P = 0.04) and to have tumours of the T-cell phenotype (P = 0.06). Excluding the one FeLV ELISA-positive cat with mediastinal LSA, 7 of 9 cats less than 4 years-of-age were long-term survivors (median survival time >1271 days). There was a strong association between achieving complete remission and long-term survival (P = 0.003). On the basis of 27 replies to a questionnaire, owners were generally very satisfied with the response to chemotherapy, irrespective of the survival time of the individual patient. Eighty five percent of owners expressed complete satisfaction with their decision to pursue chemotherapy and 70% believed their cat's health status improved during the first 2-weeks of treatment. Importantly, 78% of owners considered that chemotherapy required a very substantial time commitment on their part. Conclusions It was possible to cure approximately one quarter of cats with lymphosarcoma using sequential multi-agent chemotherapy and/or surgery. FeLV-negative cats younger than 4 years (typically with mediastinal lymphosarcoma) had a particularly favourable prognosis. The decision to embark on chemotherapy should be based on the results of induction chemotherapy with l-asparaginase, vincristine and prednisolone, as the response to this was a good predictor of long-term survival. Cats surviving the first 16 weeks of chemotherapy generally enjoyed robust remissions (in excess of 1 year) or were cured of their malignancy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts
JO  - Clinical Microbiology and Infection
VL  - 16
IS  - s3
SN  - 1198-743X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-0691.2010.03292.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1469-0691.2010.03292.x
SP  - S1
EP  - S36
PY  - 2010
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Oral Presentation Sessions
JO  - Tropical Medicine & International Health
JA  - Trop Med Int Health
VL  - 22
IS  - S1
SN  - 1360-2276
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tmi.12978
DO  - doi:10.1111/tmi.12978
SP  - 2
EP  - 114
PY  - 2017
ER  - 

AU  - Ley, Klaus
C7  - pp. 387-448
TI  - The Microcirculation in Inflammation
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cphy.cp020409
DO  - doi:10.1002/cphy.cp020409
SP  - 387-448
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract The sections in this article are:
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Panteli, Michalis
AU  - Pountos, Ippokratis
AU  - Jones, Elena
AU  - Giannoudis, Peter V.
TI  - Biological and molecular profile of fracture non-union tissue: current insights
JO  - Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
JA  - J. Cell. Mol. Med.
VL  - 19
IS  - 4
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jcmm.12532
DO  - doi:10.1111/jcmm.12532
SP  - 685
EP  - 713
KW  - non-union(s)
KW  - human tissue
KW  - bone morphogenic protein(s)
KW  - mesenchymal stem cell(s)
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Delayed bone healing and non-union occur in approximately 10% of long bone fractures. Despite intense investigations and progress in understanding the processes governing bone healing, the specific pathophysiological characteristics of the local microenvironment leading to non-union remain obscure. The clinical findings and radiographic features remain the two important landmarks of diagnosing non-unions and even when the diagnosis is established there is debate on the ideal timing and mode of intervention. In an attempt to understand better the pathophysiological processes involved in the development of fracture non-union, a number of studies have endeavoured to investigate the biological profile of tissue obtained from the non-union site and analyse any differences or similarities of tissue obtained from different types of non-unions. In the herein study, we present the existing evidence of the biological and molecular profile of fracture non-union tissue.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Donohue, K.
AU  - Nori, S.
AU  - Wilkel, C.
AU  - Falanga, V.
AU  - Badiavas, E.
TI  - Penicillamine-Induced Panniculitis with Lipomembranous Fat Necrosis
JO  - Journal of Cutaneous Pathology
VL  - 32
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320bk.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320bk.x
SP  - 85
EP  - 85
PY  - 2005
AB  - A 43-year-old female with progressive systemic sclerosis developed painful subcutaneous nodules proximally on her extremities which spread distally to her shins. Initially tender, they became red and evolved to painless, red-brown nodules. She had been taking penicillamine for 19 months and was on no other medication or supplements. History and physical exam revealed no evidence of infection, trauma, injection, or significant travel. Incisional biopsy of an acute nodule demonstrated septal panniculitis, with extensive lipomembranous change, and an associated brisk granulomatous infiltrate with multinucleated foreign-body like giant cells. Deeper adipose tissue demonstrated fibrosed thickened septae with an inflammatory cell infiltrate, consistent with scleroderma profundus. Further studies revealed no infectious organisms, or refractile material. The lesions cleared 3 weeks after stopping penicillamine. She declined a re-challenge and has been disease free for a year. Lipomembranous fat changes are identified in about 5% of subcutaneous inflammatory disorders; most frequently in venous insufficiency, and also with morphea, lupus pannicultis, erythema nodosum, necrobiosis lipoidica and trauma. Panniculitis with lipomembranous fat changes similar to this case has been reported in a patient with systemic sclerosis on norethisterone acetate. This is a rare and interesting case of penicillamine-induced panniculitis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Park, Ju Nyeong
AU  - Footer, Katherine H. A.
AU  - Decker, Michele R.
AU  - Tomko, Catherine
AU  - Allen, Sean T.
AU  - Galai, Noya
AU  - Sherman, Susan G.
C8  - ADD-18-0785.R1
TI  - Interpersonal and structural factors associated with receptive syringe-sharing among a prospective cohort of female sex workers who inject drugs
JO  - Addiction
JA  - Addiction
VL  - 114
IS  - 7
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/add.14567
DO  - doi:10.1111/add.14567
SP  - 1204
EP  - 1213
KW  - HIV risk
KW  - injection drug use
KW  - intimate partners
KW  - sex work
KW  - substance use
KW  - women
PY  - 2019
AB  - Aims To determine the interpersonal and structural factors associated with receptive syringe sharing (RSS) among female sex workers who inject drugs (FSW-IDU), a group at high risk of HIV/hepatitis C virus (HCV) acquisition. Design Sex workers And Police Promoting Health In Risky Environments (SAPPHIRE) study, a prospective cohort study. Setting Baltimore, MD, USA Participants One hundred and eighty FSW-IDU; mean age = 33 years, 77.1% white and 62.9% in a relationship/married. Measurements Surveys were conducted between April 2016 and February 2018. The main outcome was recent RSS (past 3 months). In addition to socio-demographic characteristics and drug use behaviors, we assessed factors at the interpersonal level, including injection practices, intimate partner and client drug use and exposure to violence. Structural-level factors included methods of syringe access. Findings Nearly all FSW-IDU used heroin (97.1%) or crack cocaine (89.7%). Recent RSS was reported by 18.3%. Syringes were accessed from needle exchange programs (64.6%), pharmacies (29.7%), street sellers (30.3%) or personal networks (29.1%). Some FSW-IDU had clients or intimate partners who injected drugs (26.3 and 26.9%, respectively). Longitudinal factors independently associated with RSS in the multi-level mixed-effects model were recent client violence [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 2.17, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.09?4.33], having an intimate partner who injected drugs (aOR = 2.18, 95% CI = 0.98?4.85), being injected by others (aOR = 4.95, 95% CI = 2.42?10.10) and obtaining syringes from a street seller (aOR = 1.88, 95% CI = 0.94?3.78) or from a member of their personal network (aOR = 4.43, 95% CI = 2.21?8.90). Conclusions Client violence, intimate partner injection drug use, being injected by others and obtaining syringes from personal connections appear to increase parenteral HIV/HCV risk among female sex workers who inject drugs.
ER  - 
