
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lagina III, Anthony T.
AU  - Calo, Lesley
AU  - Deogracias, Michael
AU  - Sanderson, Thomas
AU  - Kumar, Rita
AU  - Wider, Joe
AU  - Sullivan, Jonathon M.
TI  - Combination Therapy With Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 and Hypothermia Synergistically Improves Outcome After Transient Global Brain Ischemia in the Rat
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
JA  - Acad Emerg Med
VL  - 20
IS  - 4
SN  - 1069-6563
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/acem.12104
DO  - doi:10.1111/acem.12104
SP  - 344
EP  - 351
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Objectives Hypothermia has a well-established neuroprotective effect and offers a foundation for combination therapy for brain ischemia. The authors evaluated the effect of combination therapy with insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and hypothermia on brain structure and function in the setting of global brain ischemia and reperfusion in rats. Methods Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to groups by a registrar. Animals were subjected to 8 minutes of global brain ischemia using bilateral carotid occlusion and systemic hypotension, followed by 7 days (Stage I dose studies) or 28 days (Stage II outcome studies) of reperfusion. Sham controls were subjected to surgery, but not ischemia. Stage II animals were randomized to no treatment, IGF-1 at the dose determined in Stage I, hypothermia (32°C for 4 hours), or a combination of IGF-1 and hypothermia. Stage II animals underwent 21 days of spatial memory testing. At 7 days (Stage I) or 28 days (Stage II), brains were harvested for counting of CA1 neurons. The primary Stage II outcome was a neurologic outcome index computed as the ratio of viable CA1 neurons per 300-?m field to the number of days to reach success criteria on the memory task. Results Stage I experiments confirmed the neuroprotective effect of the hypothermia protocol and IGF-1 at a dose of 0.6 U/kg. Stage II studies suggested that early neuroprotection with hypothermia and IGF-1 was not well maintained to 28 days and that combination therapy was more beneficial than either IGF-1 or hypothermia alone. Median and interquartile ranges (IQRs) of viable neurons per 300-?m field were 114 (IQR = 99.5 to 136) for sham, three (IQR = 2 to 4.8) for untreated ischemia, four (IQR = 3 to 70.25) for ischemia treated with IGF-1 alone, 25 (IQR = 3 to 70) for ischemia treated with hypothermia alone, and 78 (IQR 47.3 to 97.5) for ischemia treated with combination therapy. Days to memory success criteria were 13.6 (IQR = 11.5 to 15.5 days) for sham, 23.5 (IQR = 20 to 25.5 days) for untreated ischemia, 17.5 (IQR = 15.5 to 25.5 days) for ischemia treated with IGF-1, 15 (IQR = 14.5 to 21 days) for ischemia treated with hypothermia, and 13.5 (IQR = 12.25 to 18.5 days) for ischemia treated with combination therapy. Neurologic outcome indices were 8.5 (IQR = 7.4 to 9.5) for sham, 0.14 (IQR = 0.08 to 0.2) for untreated ischemia, 0.18 (IQR = 0.17 to 4.6) for ischemia treated with IGF-1, 0.7 (IQR = 0.2 to 4.8) for ischemia treated with hypothermia, and 5.7 (IQR = 3.3 to 6.2) for ischemia treated with combination therapy. Statistically significant differences in neuron counts, days to memory test criteria, and outcome index were found between sham and untreated ischemic animals. Of the three treatment regimens, only combination therapy showed a statistically significant difference from the untreated ischemic group for neuronal salvage (p = 0.02), days to criteria (p = 0.043), and outcome index (p = 0.014). Conclusions Combination therapy with IGF-1 (0.6 U/kg) and therapeutic hypothermia (32°C for 4 hours) at the onset of reperfusion synergistically preserves CA1 structure and function at 28 days after 8 minutes of global brain ischemia in healthy male rats.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Neuhaus, S. J.
TI  - TS13 HAEMOSTASIS IN THE AUSTRALIAN DEFENCE FORCE: THE TOURNIQUET CONTROVERSY
JO  - ANZ Journal of Surgery
VL  - 77
IS  - s1
SN  - 1445-1433
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04133_13.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04133_13.x
SP  - A95
EP  - A95
PY  - 2007
AB  - In civilian trauma concerns about tourniquet-related problems has rendered tourniquets virtually obselete. The use of tourniquets in a battlefield setting however remains surrounded by controversy. Whilst many accept that if properly used, tourniquets can be life saving devices, opinion is divided regarding its role. Some surgeons have recommended abolition of the tourniquet, whist others advocate that every combat solder should be issued with a tourniquet as part of their personal equipment. The recent introduction of the self applied C-A-T tourniquet into the Australian Defence Force has re-ignited controversy as to the appropriate role of tourniquets in an operational setting. During Vietnam, Desert Storm and Somalia haemorrhage from extremity wounds was a leading cause of preventable combat deaths. Improvements in body armour and increased exposure to blast injury has resulted in a relative increase in limb injuries in recent operations. Experience in Somalia, Iraq and Afghanistan particularly by Special Operations communities has led to a re-assessment of the efficacy of battlefield tourniquet systems. The C-A-T tourniquet has been widely used in Iraq and Afghanistan. No iatrogenic injury has been reported, even with tourniquet times up to 8 hours. This paper will discuss the history of tourniquet use in the military from its first introduction in 1674 to the most recent ADF doctrine (ADFP XXX). It will also present trial results from the UK and US and recommendations from the 2006 Advanced Technologies Applied to Combat Casualty Care Conference (ATACC). This paper will address the basis of current doctrine and provide a case for and against the use of tourniquets in an operational setting.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: Clinical EEG
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_15.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_15.x
SP  - 131
EP  - 142
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Imran I. Ali, 1 Nabeel A. Herial, 1 Noor A. Pirzada, 1 Neeraj Kaplish, and 1 L. John Greenfield ( 1 Neurology, Medical University of Ohio, Toledo, OH ) Rationale: Status epilepticus (SE) from all causes is associated with a 25?30% mortality rate. In patients with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) and SE, the mortality is even higher. Effect of non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) in this group have not been described previously. We, therefore, wanted to review the EEG features of SE in patients with HIE to correlate them with the clinical findings and also identify patients in which intervention may be associated with a better prognosis. Methods: The EEG database at Medical University of Ohio from 1999?2004 was reviewed. Patients with HIE and fulfilling the EEG criteria for status epilepticus were identified. EEG were reviewed by two Board Certified Electroencephalographers and charts were reviewed for clinical and EEG information. IRB approval was obtained for this study. Results: Twelve patients were identified who fulfilled the criteria for for HIE and NCSE. There were six men and six women. Mean age was 60.5 years (range 38?85). Six patients had isolated cardiac arrest, two had purely respiratory arrest while four had simulatneous cardiorespiratory arrest. Six patients were comatose with no clinical evidence of seizures (50%), three patients (25%) had intermittent myoclonus, while two patients (16%) had focal clonic activity noted initially. One additional patient had generalized tonic clonic seizure that was followed by coma and EEG evidence of NCSE. Irregular bifrontal generalized spike and wave discharges were seen in six patients (50%), generalized periodic epileptiform discharges with evolving pattern were seen in five patients (42%), and focal rhythmic spike and wave activity was seen in one patient (8%). Severe background suppression was noted in all patients. Three patients had intermittent theta activity but the background was unreactive. In nine patients NCSE resolved with treatment but in all twelve patients this did not result in improvement of the background EEG activity. All twelve patients died within 30 days of onset of NCSE. Conclusions: EEG features of non-convulsive status epilepticus are variable but most patients had generalized periodic epileptiform discharges with evolving frontal discharges or rhythmic frontal spike and wave activity. The EEG pattern did not influence outcome or correlate with specific clinical features. In our series non-convulsive status epilepticus in patients with hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy was associated with a 100% mortality. Although status epilepticus resolved in 66% of the patients with aggressive treatment, this did not result in improved outcome. 1 Noel Baker, and 1 Paul C. Van Ness ( 1 Neurolgy, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: Subclinical Rhythmic Epileptiform Discharge of Adults (SREDA) is a non-ictal electrographic variant most frequently characterised as a 5?7 Hz rhythm of abrupt onset and termination and located maximally in the temporoparietoocipital regions. It differs from an ictal pattern in a lack of evolution in frequency, distribution and morphology, and in the subjects' lack of clinical change during the duration of the discharge.(1) SREDA has most often been described in adults in the 4th to the 9th decades, but Najarajan et al have described this pattern in 2 young girls.(2,3) We report its occurrence in a young man whose SREDA had characteristics described as rare in adults. Methods: In the pediatric division of our institution, approximately 2200?2500 routine EEGs and 150?200 prolonged video-EEG studies are performed each year. Since 2001, only one case of SREDA in a pediatric patient was seen in our institution. Results: Case Report: The patient initially presented at the age of 14 for staring spells. His neurologic examination and IQ were normal. An intial routine and video EEG were interpreted as showing non-convulsive status, despite his ability to interact during the discharges. He was placed on valproate with no clinical change. A second video EEG 3 years later showed bursts of 5?6 Hz discharges occaisionally slowing to 1?2 Hz which were consistently maximal in the frontal regions and at the vertex, bilaterally synchronous in onset, and persisting in light sleep. The bursts lasted up to 5 minutes in duration and ended abruptly with re-emergence a normal background, and comprised >50% of the record during the 3 days of monitoring. The SREDA persisted unchanged during activation procedures, eye opening and closing, and repetition of syllables such as ?lilt.? During the bursts, he repeatedly demonstrated his ability to follow commands, answer questions, play video games, and complete neuropsychologic testing. Conclusions: SREDA is rare EEG pattern occurring in approximately 1/2500 adult recordings and documented in patients with such non-epileptiform complaints as headaches, dizziness, and depression, as well as seizures. Atypical SREDA variants charcterised as frontally predominant, or occurring as delta frequencies, or having a waxing and waning pattern have also been described, comparable to what we saw in our patient. (2) While our experience at our institution confirms that of Nagarajan et all that SREDA is not seen exclusively in adults, it also suggests that SREDA is more rare in pediatric patients. 1 Westmoreland B. and Klass D. A Distinctive Rhythmic EEG Discharge of Adults. Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 1981, 51:186?191. 2 Westmoreland B. and Klass D. Unusual variants of subclinical rhythmic electrographic discharge of adults (SREDA). Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 1991, 102:1?4. 3 Nagarajan L. et al Subclinical Rhythmic EEG Discharge of Adults: SREDA in Two Children. Pediatric Neurology, 2001; 24:313?316. 1 Ramon E. Bautista, 2 Steven Godwin, and 2 David Caro ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ; and 2 Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: Patients frequently present to the emergency room (ER) with mental status changes but without any immediately apparent cause. The EEG is underutilized in this population, partly due to the time and preparation required to perform it, possibly causing a delay in diagnosis. In this study, we determined if an abbreviated EEG (AEEG) performed immediately upon patient arrival to the ER could provide useful information. We specifically wanted to know if AEEGs can be useful in diagnosing non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE). Methods: We performed a 5-minute AEEG using a preformed electrode placement system on 25 consecutive patients who presented to the ER with mental status changes but without any immediately apparent cause as determined by ER physicians. The AEEGs were performed almost immediately after the patient arrived in the ER without the benefit of a neurologic consultation. The AEEGs were only reviewed after patient discharge and did not impact patient care. We also conducted a retrospective chart review of all enrolled patients after discharge to determine the discharge diagnosis. We then performed a Fisher exact test to determine if the cause of mental status changes could be distinguished by AEEG findings. Results: Of 25 patients entered into the study, two had a discharge diagnosis of new onset NCSE. These patients had AEEG findings consistent with electrographic seizure activity. Seven patients were later diagnosed to have a metabolic/infectious encephalopathy. The AEEGs in four of these patients showed diffuse slowing and one had interictal epileptiform activity. Eight patients were seen due to post-ictal confusion and seven of them had AEEGs that showed diffuse slowing. Two patient were diagnosed with syncope and both had normal AEEGs. One patient had a left MCA-CVA and the AEEG showed diffuse slowing that was accentuated over the left hemisphere. One patient was diagnosed with dementia and had a normal AEEG. The diagnoses in four patients were uncertain even at the time of discharge. Three of these patients had a normal AEEG while one AEEG was uninterpretable due to movement artifact. Aside from those who were diagnosed to have NCSE, no other patient had an AEEG showing electrographic seizure activity. Using Fisher's exact test, mental status changes due to NCSE could be distinguished by the presence of electrographic seizure activity on AEEG. Conclusions: Our study suggests that even an abbreviated EEG performed early during the ER visit can diagnose NCSE in patients who present with mental status changes of unknown cause. Future studies with larger sample sizes would help definitively establish the utility of this technique. (Supported by University of Florida Health Sciences Center/Jacksonville Dean's Fund Research Awards for Faculty.) 1 Scott Bearden, 1,2 Basim Uthman, and 2 Stephan Eisenschenk ( 1 Neurology, North Florida/South Georgia Veterans Health System, Gainesville, FL ; and 2 Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) is most often defined as an epileptic state, without convulsive motor activity, lasting at least 30 minutes with associated ictal EEG activity. A clinically evident, sustained change from baseline behavior or mental status should also occur unless the patient is comatose or in simple partial NCSE. Diagnostic challenges are most evident in NCSE patients presenting with stupor or coma since no or only little behavioral changes are clearly apparent. Identifying EEG patterns that are most probably ictal representations of NCSE could be most valuable in early diagnosis and treatment of NCSE. Delay to diagnosis of adult NCSE may increase morbidity and mortality. Methods: A thorough review of the literature from 1972 to 2004 identified 72 publications involving NCSE in adults. Clinical and EEG presentations of reported cases were analyzed and supplemented with examples from our clinical practice. Results: We devised a classification scheme summarizing clinical presentations and ictal EEG patterns of NCSE. Five clinical categories combined with common ictal EEG signatures were identified and referenced in five charts integrating the type of NCSE, common patient symptomatology, ictal EEG, interictal EEG, and prognostic information. Two flow charts (combining clinical presentation and EEG) were developed to aid in classification and provide prognostic information for most adult patients in NCSE whose mental state ranges from mild confusion to stupor and for patients who are comatose. The use of benzodiazepines as a diagnostic aide during EEG was scrutinized. Conclusions: Classification of prolonged ictal confusion, stupor and coma utilizing clinical and EEG presentations into a simple logical framework is possible and may contribute to early diagnosis and timely treatment of NCSE. High awareness of NCSE as a clinical entity presenting as change in mental status is critical for early diagnosis and intervention. 1 Rachel Berman, 2 Michiro Negishi, 2 R. Todd Constable, 3,4 Edward J. Novotny, 3 Susan Levy, and 4,5 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 2 Diagnostic Radiology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; and 5 Neurobiology, Yale University, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Absence seizures occur most commonly in children. They involve brief episodes of staring and non-responsiveness. Electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings of typical childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) show bilateral 3?4 Hz spike-wave discharges. True CAE rarely persists to adulthood. Prior published reports of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in adult patients describe variable bilateral frontoparietal fMRI increases, decreases, and thalamic increases during generalized spike-wave, with most studies performed at 1.5T. The goal of the present study is to extend these investigations to typical absence seizures in the pediatric population, which may differ from adult patients, using combined EEG and fMRI at 3T. Methods: Pediatric patients with typical absence seizures, and no other seizure types, were tested. After application of a 19 channel EEG cap connected to an EEG recorder (Neuroscan NuAmps), fMRI was performed using a 3T MR system (Siemens Trio), with continuous EPI BOLD sequence. Multiple 10 minute imaging runs were repeated up to 6 times. To increase the chance of obtaining absence seizures, patients were asked to hold medications for up to 48 hours, and were sleep deprived the night before scanning. EEG artifact was removed by post-processing using temporal PCA-based gradient noise removal. fMRI data during seizure and baseline intervals were analyzed in a general linear model using SPM2. Results: During typical childhood absence seizures, we found significant blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal increases in bilateral thalamus. Moderate increases were found in the cingulate, lateral frontal, and parietal cortex. Decreased BOLD signal was observed in the retrosplenial cortex, and to a lesser degree in the bilateral frontoparietal cortex. Conclusions: Despite increased challenges of performing fMRI in pediatric patients, high quality data can be obtained in this population. As in adult patients, increases and decreases are seen in frontoparietal and thalamic networks. Further study is needed to determine whether variable involvement of different specific regions of cortex and thalamus during absence seizures is related to variable effects on cognition seen during these seizures. (Supported by Betsy and Jonathan Blattmachr Fund.) 1 Milan P. Borkovic, 1 Nebojsa J. Jovic, and 1 Jasna Jancic ( 1 Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia; Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia; and Clinical for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Medical School, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia ) Rationale: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is an idiopathic generalized epileptic syndrome. It is often considered as benign because of its non-lesional nature and favourable clinical long-term prognosis. The characteristic EEG pattern is presented with bilateral symmetric polyspike-wave complexes with anterior accentuation. Focal EEG abnormalities are not exclusive in patients with an unequivocal diagnosis of JME. Methods: A Group of 39 patients of both sexes (17 male, 22 female), aged from 12 to 26 years (mean 17.8 years) with JME were studied for focal EEG abnormalities recorded during the clinical follow-up. Mean seizure onset was 13.5 years. Diagnosis was made according to the history and EEG records. Antiepileptic treatment was started with valproate. Results: Initial clinical and EEG assesment was carried-out after the generalized tonic-clonic seizure (mainly induced by sleep-deprivation), in 51% of JME patients. Absences in 21% and myoclonic jerks in 28% of patients were observed as initial epileptic events and reffered for EEG examinations. Complete, stable, long-term seizure control was achieved with valproate use in 87% of patients. In remaining 13% no favorable therapeutic response of AEDs was noted, mainly due to the irregular lifestyle. Repeated EEGs during sleep and when awake showed the interictal polyspike-wave pattern or fast/classical spike-wave discharges. Generalized EEG patterns were prevalent as expected: polyspike-waves or spike-wave discharges non-related to photic stimulation were noted in 66.7% and paroxysmal abnormalities to photic stimulation in 35.9%. Non-specific abnormalities were shown in 10.3%, while, bilateral anterior spikes and sharp waves were recorded in 23.1% of JME adolescents. Localization-related EEG abnormalities (focal slow waves shifting between the hemispheres, spikes, sharp waves and focal onset or asymmetrical generalized discharges) were noted in 23,1% of our JME patients. Conclusions: In more than one fourth of our JME patients, EEG showed focal abnormalities in addition to the generalized EEG patterns. These features should not be mislead to the erroneous interperetation of EEG characteristic for localization-related epilepsy. 1 Luiz E. Betting, 1 Susana B. Mory, 2 Iscia Lopes-Cendes, 1 Li M. Li, 1 Marilisa M. Guerreiro, 1 Carlos A.M. Guerreiro, and 1 Fernando Cendes ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Medical Genetics, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The objectives of this study were to investigate the EEG profile in a group of patients with clinical diagnosis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) followed in a tertiary Hospital and to evaluate the contribution of the records for diagnosis and management of these patients. Methods: We retrospectively studied clinical and EEG features of 180 consecutive patients with IGE. Eighty patients were diagnosed with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), 35 had absence epilepsy (AE), 13 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures on awakening (GTCS-A), 28 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures only (TCS) and 24 had adult onset idiopathic generalized epilepsy (AIGE). The EEGs were classified in typical (synchronous generalized spike or polyspike and wave discharges with normal background), atypical (with clear focalities or asymmetries) and normal. Results: A total of 493 EEG exams were analyzed. The first EEG was normal in 45% of the 180 patients and only 33% had typical abnormalities. AE had a higher proportion of typical exams and needed less sequential exams to register a typical abnormality compared to the other groups. By contrast, the serial EEG profile of TCS and AIGE showed a higher proportion of normal and atypical EEG findings. Conclusions: These findings support previous recommendations that IGE patients should be treated with appropriate therapy based on clinical history. Waiting for a typical abnormal EEG pattern can generate an unacceptable delay in the correct diagnosis and treatment of these patients. In patients with long term epilepsy the diagnosis may be difficult. Furthermore, serial EEGs can help to elucidate the syndromic diagnosis, especially in patients with TCS and AIGE. (Supported by CAPES, FAPESP.) 1 Farzana Darbari, and 1 Sigmund Jenssen ( 1 Neurology, Drexel Medical College, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Sleep has been shown to influence multiple physiological processes i.e. control of blood pressure, glycemia and protein synthesis, and deprivation of sleep could theoretically lead to sickness. Patients who are admitted to a hospital suffer disturbance of sleep due to external, medical and psychological factors. Disturbed sleep leads to decreased sleep latency. We hypothesized that in-patients have decreased sleep latency as compared to out-patients and that sleep latency decreases with length of stay. Methods: Otherwise completely normal EEG recordings were reviewed prospectively for sleep onset, which we defined as at 30 seconds of stage two of sleep or briefer if stage two of sleep was seen more than once. Patients with known sleep disorders, deliberately sleep deprived recordings and recordings with focal or generalized abnormalities were excluded. We noted medications, length of stay and if recording had been done in AM or in PM. Comparisons were done using the Mann-Whitney test and Pearson's for correlation. Results: Thirty out-patient and 24 in-patient EEGs were reviewed. Mean sleep latency for out-patients was 16 minutes and 54 seconds (SD 11 minutes and 17 seconds) and for in-patients 11 minutes and 27 seconds (SD 8 minutes and 35 seconds). (P = 0.0314). Length of hospital stay and sleep latency did not correlate. There was no statistical difference in age, number of patients on sleep enhancing medications or time of day of EEG between the two groups. Conclusions: In-patients have decreased sleep latency as compared to out-patients. This could be related to disturbed sleep. To see if this is a risk factor for poor recovery needs further investigation. 1 Anita Datta, and 1 David B. Sinclair ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ) Rationale: The objective of the study was to compare the clinical course and outcome of children with typical and atypical features of Benign Epilepsy of Childhood with Rolandic Spikes (BECRS). Methods: A retrospective case series design was used in the setting of a tertiary care pediatric hospital. One hundred and twenty six children with BECRS were selected for the study. The patients were divided into two groups based on their clinical presentation. Group A consisted of children with typical features of BECRS. Group B consisted of those with atypical features. Atypical features included age of onset, abnormal neurological exam, developmental delay, and presence of other types of seizures. Patients' charts were reviewed for demographic data, family history, comorbid conditions, atypical clinical features, anticonvulsant drugs, and outcome data. Results: Atypical features were seen in 47% of patients. Comorbid disorders such as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and behavioral problems, although seen in both groups, were slightly more frequent in the atypical group. Sixty-seven percent of children had a family history of migraine and 54% were migraine sufferers. Overall, there was no difference between time to become seizure free between the groups: 62% of the typical group was controlled on medication by two years while 71% of the atypical group was seizure free. Thirty-five percent of the typical BECRS group were incompletely controlled on medication, while 65% of the atypical group required the addition of a second anti-epileptic drug. Resolution of the epilepsy occurred at about the same age in both groups with similar long term outcomes. Conclusions: Atypical features in BECRS are common. Comorbid disorders are seen in both groups. Personal or family history of migraine appears to be associated with the disorder. Overall, the long term outcome is similar in both groups, although the atypical patients may be initially more difficult-to-control. Resolution of the epilepsy and a good long term outcome was not affected by the presence of atypical clinical features. 1 Ronald G. Davis, and 1 Carl R. Barr ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Pediatric Neurology, PA, Orlando, FL; and Pediatric Neurology, Pediatric Neurology, PA, Orlando, FL ) Rationale: We report on a large series (>25) of pediatric patients who presented to our neurology practice with various neurologic referable complaints, excluding clinical seizure activity, who were discovered to have EEG abnormalities. Patient ages varied from 3?18years. Symptoms included headache with vertigo, vertigo, visual field alterations including Alice-in -Wonderland changes and atypical speech/language dyspraxia. Prior to presentation, there had been no history of seizure or seizure like activity noted in any of the patients by history and record review. Methods: Routine surface EEG was completed on these patients as part of the workup. Findings included focal sharp wave discharges, focal spike and wave discharges, rhythmic slowing and generalized bursts of spike and polyspike and wave discharges of the non-absence type. A significant percentage also activated with sleep. Neuroimaging was normal in all cases. Therapeutic intervention varied and included the use of antiepileptic medications. Results: A positive response to symptoms (>50% improvement in symptoms) was noted in >50% of patients. Of the initial nonresponders, a second antiepileptic medication was tried. Of those who did not respond to 2 medication trials, discontinuation of medication was recommended. No significant adverse events were reported for any patients who were treated. Conclusions: In conclusion, EEG abnormalities can be seen in pediatric patients with atypical neurologic complaints without clinical seizures.How these electrographic abnormalities contribute to symptoms is unclear. Additionally, guidelines for medication intervention will need to be established, though further investigation will be required. Given these finding and significantly positive clinical response in this limited number of patients, EEG should be considered frequently in the diagnostic evaluation of similar pediatric patients. 1 Eliane Kobayashi, 1 Andrew P. Bagshaw, 1 Jean Gotman, and 1 François Dubeau ( 1 EEG Department, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, Canada ) Rationale: Cerebral cavernous angiomas (CCAs) are frequently associated with focal intractable epilepsy, and their epileptogenicity is usually attributed to the rim of hemosiderin deposits. Co-recording of EEG and fMRI is a new method to investigate the effects of epileptic discharges in the focus and at distance. Methods: We used EEG-fMRI to identify BOLD responses to interictal spikes in patients with CCAs. Spikes were marked according to spatial distribution, with each spike type determining one EEG-fMRI study. Combined maps of t-statistics were created to assess positive (activation) and negative (deactivation) changes in BOLD signal related to the spikes. Responses were analysed in the lesional and perilesional area, and at distance. The raw fMRI signal in the lesion and its boundaries was evaluated for signal loss due to the susceptibility artefact associated with the lesion and the hemosiderin. Results: Eight patients, three with multiple CCAs, were scanned, all with temporal lobe epilepsy and spikes. One patient had bilateral spikes, analyzed separately, and three studies with less than two spikes were excluded. Therefore, six studies were analyzed, all showing BOLD responses: four had only activation, one had only deactivation and one had both responses. No response was found in the lesion itself or immediate periphery, and the raw fMRI signal showed loss in lesional and perilesional areas in all patients. Responses involved the perilesional area in 2/6 studies, both concordant with the spike topography, one as activation and the other one as deactivation. In all patients, areas of BOLD responses were identified at distance from the lesion. In the four studies where the spikes were ipsilateral to the temporal CCA, there was activation in that temporal lobe. In the two studies where the spikes were contralateral to the temporal CCA, the response was concordant with the spike in one study, and unrelated to either the spike or the lesion in the other one. Conclusions: Despite susceptibility artifacts caused by iron deposits, we demonstrated EEG-fMRI responses involving the perilesional areas in 33% of studies, supporting their role in epileptogenicity of CCAs. The frequently distant responses are in accordance with previous studies in lesional and non-lesional temporal lobe epilepsy. These responses may be the result of distant effect of spikes, which, in CCAs, could be enhanced by the possible presence of non-visible microvascular lesions. (Supported by The Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), Preston Robb fellowship from the MNI and the Savoy Foundation for Epilepsy.) 1 Maria D.C. Gomes, 1 Eliana Garzon, 1 Elza M.T. Yacubian, and 1,2 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Federal University of S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Psychiatry and Psychology, University of S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Hypsarritmia is a well-known EEG pattern that usually appears associated to a severe form of infantile epilepsy. Different patterns of hypsarritmia are recognizable on visual analysis, making it difficult to correlate to outcome. In this study we propose the use of scales for objective analysis of EEG background and hypsarritmia, searching for predictors of EEG outcome in West Syndrome. Methods: EEGs of children with diagnosis of West Syndrome and infantile spasms were analyzed. Patients were included in the study between October 2002 to October 2004. EEG background parameters encompassed presence of background gradient, amount of delta activity, sleep spindles and assimetry; hypsarritmia parameters included amplitude and percentage of hypsarritmia in the EEG record. Patients were divided in controlled (group 1) and uncontrolled (group 2) and their scores compared. Clinical variables including age of onset of spasms, age at the time of the examination, previous use of antiepileptic drugs, etiology and MRI data were additionally analyzed. Results: 24 EEGs were assessed and scored. Global scores varied from 7 to 18, background scores from 2 to 12, and hypsarritmia scores from 4 to 9, respectively (groups 1 and 2). Age of onset of spasms were classified as early onset, classical and late onset, and the global EEG scores were 11.8 (sd = 2.28), 12.61 (sd = 3.09) and 13, respectively. Differences were not statiscally significant. Patients'age at the time of the evaluation were also divided in up to 4 months, 4 to 9 months, 9 to 12 months and over 12 months. Global EEG scores regarding patients' age were, respectively 14, 12.50 (sd = 3.12); 11.67(sd = 2.50) and 12.78 (sd = 3.15). There was no correlation between EEG scores and duration of epilepsy, etiology, MRI findings. Lower scores were found in controlled patients, while higher scores in uncontrolled patients. Overall, only background scores were correlated with outcome. Conclusions: In patients with West syndrome EEG scores were not affected by clinical and etiological data. Global EEG scores do not have prognostic value, but background scores were predictive of EEG outcome (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Jeffrey W. Britton, 1 Gena R. Ghearing, 1 Eduardo E. Benarroch, and 1 Gregory D. Cascino ( 1 Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic Rochester, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: The importance of the insular cortex and adjacent temporal lobe in cardiovascular regulation has been demonstrated. Some studies have suggested that cortical cardiac autonomic influences may be lateralized, with sympathetic representation lateralized to the right insula and parasympathetic to the left. Ictal bradycardia, although rare, offers an opportunity to study the functional anatomy of cardiac rate control. Methods: A query was performed on all electronic reports of prolonged EEG monitoring studies performed at Mayo Clinic Rochester from January 1990 to December 2004. Ictal bradycardia was defined as an R-R interval of greater than 2.0 seconds or activation of cardiac pacing during a recorded seizure. All clinical and electrophysiological data in identified patients were reviewed to determine localization and lateralization of EEG activity at seizure onset and at the onset of bradycardia in these patients. A literature review of previously reported cases was also conducted. Results: Thirteen patients were identified out of 6,168 patients who underwent video-EEG monitoring at our institution during the study period. Ictal bradycardia was present in 29 of 60 recorded seizures in these patients. Seizure onset was localized to the temporal lobe in all patients. EEG activity at seizure onset did not consistently lateralize to either hemisphere. Seven patients had ictal bradycardia with right temporal seizure onset, five with left temporal seizures and one with bitemporal seizure onset. Seizure activity was bilateral at bradycardia onset in 9 of 13 patients. One patient had seizure activity confined to the right hemisphere, and 3 had only left hemisphere activity at bradycardia onset. One hundred six cases of ictal bradycardia were found in the literature, with 80 of these patients having simultaneous EEG and ECG monitoring. Of these, seizure onset was localized to the temporal lobe in 35 patients, to the frontotemporal region in 15, the frontal lobe in 13 and the occipital lobe in one. Information regarding the EEG lateralization at seizure onset was available in 55 cases, but only 21 of these cases had information on EEG lateralization at the onset of bradycardia. While 34 of 55 patients had seizure onset lateralized to the left hemisphere at seizure onset, 11 of 21 had bilateral activity at bradycardia onset. Conclusions: Both our series and a review of the ictal bradycardia literature support the association of ictal bradycardia with temporal lobe onset seizures. However, ictal bradycardia does not appear to be a consistent lateralizing finding. The distribution of seizure activity at the onset of bradycardia was bilateral in our series, suggesting that bradycardia is more likely to occur in the setting of bilateral hemispheric seizure activity. These data do not support the presence of a lateralized cortical zone associated with parasympathetic cardiovascular activity in humans. (Supported by NINDS P01 NS32352-P2.) 1 Preeti Gupta, 2 Robert Rothermel, 1 Darren R. Fuerst, and 1 Aashit K. Shah ( 1 Neurology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit Medical Cetner, Detroit, MI ; and 2 Psychiatry/Psychology, Detroit Medical Center, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: The Wada test is a neurological test used for epileptic patients who are scheduled for epilepsy surgery to evaluate memory function and language dominance by injecting a short acting anesthetic, sodium amobarbital, in each internal carotid artery separately, anesthetizing the part of the brain perfused by that circulation. We have observed shivering in a portion of patients undergoing the Wada test. The relationship of shivers in the context of this test has not been delineated. Therefore, in this study, we attempt to attain a further understanding regarding this clinical phenomenon. Methods: We studied a total of 14 patients (9.5?50.25 years) prospectively who have undergone the Wada test since 2003. Multiple variables including age, race, sex, site of injection, dose of amobarbital, duration of shivering, duration of slowing on the EEG (as a surrogate for continued effects of amobarbital on the brain), and hemispheric dominance were analyzed. Results: Of the fourteen patients, six (43%) experienced shivering during the Wada test. The duration of shivering was similar to the duration of amobarbital's effect as monitored by the presence of slowing on EEG. No significant difference in the two groups was noted in terms of age, race, sex, dose of amobarbital, and hemispheric dominance. Of these six patients, four patients shivered after injection to the left ICA and two patients shivered after injection to the right ICA. Conclusions: There is no difference among patient characteristics in those who shivered vs. those who did not, suggesting an anatomical cause for this clinical observation. The anterior cerebral artery and the anterior communicating artery, branches of the ICA, perfuse the anterior hypothalamus. Thus, sodium amobarbital injected into the ICA likely causes a temporary functional lesion of the anterior hypothalamic-preoptic area (heat center). This area normally inhibits the primary motor center for shivering. This ?lesion? likely causes a release of the primary motor center for shivering from the inhibitory effects from the ?heat center? resulting in the clinical manifestation of shivering. 1 Yun Jung Her, 1 Joon Soo Lee, 2 Jong Doo Lee, and 1 Heung Dong Kim ( 1 Pediatrics, Institute of Handicapped Children, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Seodaemun-ku, Korea ; and 2 Diagnostic Radiology, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Seodaemun-ku, Korea ) Rationale: Changes in metabolism due to the differences of cerebral blood flow during ictal and interictal period can be quite various when observed by 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluro-D-glucose(FDG)-PET. So, we performed EEG and PET concurrently to evaluate the effect of epileptiform and non-epileptiform discharge of EEG on glucose metabolism. We tried to reduce the rate of false lateralization of PET reading and evaluate the relationship between EEG and PET result, thus deciding the appropriateness of concurrent study of PET and PET-EEG along with the importance of PET-EEG in diagnosing and localizing a lesion. Methods: 73 children with pediatric epilepsy who received PET and PET-EEG simultaneously were included in our study. We studied their clinical aspects of seizure, the severity of focal slow wave during interictal period with the frequency and localization of polyspike or sharp wave to compare with the result of PET. Also, we evaluated the relationship between pathologic results and the concurrency rate between PET and PET-EEG in patients who received operation. Results: 73 patients received PET and PET-EEG concurrently. Their sex ratio was 1.8:1. When grouping the patients according to the site of the lesion in EEG, 53 children proved to have a local lesion showing the ratio of 2.7:1 to children without it. Among 53 children, 27 had focal seizure while 26 had secondary encephalopathy. The frequency of epileptiform discharge was 18% in no/rare, 10% in occasional, and 72% in frequent group while showing 0%, 43% and 68% rate of concurrency with PET each with high correlation (p = 0.001, r = 0.491). Severity of non-epileptiform discharge was classified as no, mild, moderate, and severe and were 21%, 34%, 23%, and 22% of the whole group along with 13%, 52%, 65%, 69% of concurrence rate (p = 0.001, r = 0.365). According to EEG study, 29% of focal lesion was located in frontal, 14% in centrotemporal, and 8% in occipital area. 22% showed lateralization and 27% without it. The rate of concurrency between epileptiform discharge and PET according to the location of focal lesion was 67%, 80%, 67%, 75%, and 5% (p = 0.001). The same rate was 57%, 30%, 50%, 88%, 25% (p = 0.002) between non-epileptiform discharge and PET showing certain difference. 10 patients went through operation. 6 showed concurrent result in PET and PET-EEG and 4 out of them had concurrency with 24 hr video EEG and brain MRI as well. They had no seizure event after the surgery and proved to have cortical microdysgenesis or dysplasia in pathologic evaluation. Conclusions: Epileptiform discharge and non-epileptiform discharge in EEG showed certain association with hypometabolim in PET study. In conclusion, we recommend PET-EEG to reduce false lateralization and to localize lesion in cases of high frequency or severity. 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2 Micah Brown, and 2,3 Don M. Tucker ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesics, Inc., Eugene, OR ; and 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ) Rationale: This study was undertaken to examine the spatiotemporal dynamics of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) in temporal lobe epilepsy by applying methods that improve both spatial localization and temporal precision in mapping the rapidly evolving discharges. Methods: Eight patients with temporal lobe epilepsy underwent dense array 256 channel scalp EEG recordings. Localization of IEDs at 10 msec intervals in relation to a standard MRI model was accomplished with dipole fits and with two distributed linear inverse methods of source analysis, using probabilistic gray matter voxels as source constraints. The results were compared to conventional EEG waveform interpretations and the limited source analysis possible with conventional EEG. Results: The three methods of source localization yielded convergent results. The initial onset of the averaged IED localized to one basal-mesial temporal lobe. Adjacent temporal lobe regions become involved within 10?20 msec. In several patients, there was rapid spread to the opposite temporal lobe and, in some cases, to extratemporal regions before returning to the original temporal lobe. Both temporal lobes often were sources for IEDs. Each IED showed unique propagation patterns. Initial IED temporal involvement was concordant with the site of surgery in most subjects. Restriction of mapping to a conventional EEG montage resulted in fewer IED detections and frequently misleading results from both visual inspection and source localization. Conclusions: Discerning the rapid propagation of IEDs in temporal lobe epilepsy can be achieved by applying source analysis to dense array recordings. Dynamic brain mapping improves discharge detection, reduces margin of error in source analysis calculations, enhances reliability of anatomic localization of discharges with msec resolution, and yields insight into cortical network involved in epileptic discharges. 1 Yue-Loong Hsin, 2 Tomor Harnod, and 1 Shin-Zong Lin ( 1 Neurology, Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan ) Rationale: Because of the excellent therapeutic effect and high safety of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in certain neurologic disorders, its clinical application has been extended to the treatment of epilepsy. Therefore, the procedure of stimulation electrode implantation provides an opportunity for studying neurophysiology of deep brain structures. We investigated the ictal EEG activity of subthalamic nucleus (STN) in treatment of patient with refractory epilepsy by deep brain stimulation (DBS). Methods: Seven patients with refractory epilepsy underwent implantation of DBS leads into bilateral STN. In addition to the extension of STN leads as intracranial EEG electrodes, subdural strips were implanted to the corresponding cortical regions of epileptogenesis. To obtain ictal and interictal epileptiform discharges, prolonged video-EEG recording was performed before delivering electric impulses into the STN. In a patient, the intracranial EEG was co-registered with electromyography of muscles involved in the myoclonic seizures. Results: Over 50 epileptic seizures including partial seizures, atypical absence seizures, myoclonic seizures, tonic seizures, tonic-clonic seizures, and unclassified seizures were recorded. Ictal EEG activities in the STN had fast alpha activity, rhythmic spiking, and quasi/periodic spike/polyspike-and-slow-wave complexes that were not different from cortical epileptic patterns. Where there were bilaterally synchronous and rhythmic spikes and spike/polyspike-and-slow-wave discharges in generalized seizures would be faithfully reflected at bilateral STN simultaneously with opposite polarity. Additionally, myoclonic bursting was present at the STN. Conclusions: The STN generates epileptic EEG activity. The STN participates in the network interactions between cortical and subcortical structures. Diverse seizure activities of the STN reflect the pathogenesis of epilepsy that should influence the outcome of STN DBS. 1 Mohammed M.S. Jan ( 1 Neurosciences, King Faisal Specialist Hospital  2 Pediatrics, University of California at Irvine College of Medicine, Irvine, CA ; and 3 For OC Kids, Orange, CA ) Rationale: In a tertiary care center, we performed video-EEG monitoring on 32 autistic children, and found that 19 had interictal epileptiform abnormalities (IEAs). All recorded seizures in this group were non-epileptic. Therefore, we question whether the IEAs in these children represent an intrinsic part of the autistic phenotype Methods: Video-EEG monitoring studies of autistic children (n = 32) were compared with those of non-autistic children with other cerebral disorders (n = 20). This comparison group included children with developmental delay, learning disability, and attention deficit disorder, who like to autistic group, underwent continuous EEG or video-EEG monitoring to exclude epileptic seizures. None of the patients from either group proved to have epilepsy. Specific parameters that were examined included the occurrence of IEAs and the types, i.e., focal, multifocal, and generalized IEAs. Results: The autistic group consisted of 27 boys and 5 girls with a median age of 5 years (2?13 years). The comparison group consisted of 12 boys and 7 girls with a median age of 7.5 years (1?18 years). Nineteen of the 32 (59%) autistic children and 12 of the 20 (60%) children in the comparison group had IEAs, respectively. Of these children with IEAs, 11 of 19 (58%) in the autistic group and only 3 of 12 (25%) in the comparison group had generalized IEAs. Multifocal IEAs also tended to occur more often in the autistic group than in the comparison group (32% vs. 8%). In contrast, focal IEAs tended to predominate in the comparison group (75%) compared to the autistic group (42%), although a minority of patients in each group had co-existence of focal/multifocal and generalized IEAs. Conclusions: IEAs may occur in non-epileptic children with a variety of cerebral disorders. However, the abnormalities in children with autism tend to differ from those of a similar cohort without autism. Specifically, generalized IEAs may constitute an intrinsic part of the autistic phenotype. 1 Oh-Young Kwon, 1 Yeongsoo Kim, 1 Ki-Jong Park, 1 Nack-Cheon Choi, and 1 Byeong Hoon Lim ( 1 Department of Neurology, Gyeongsang National University College of Medicine, Jinju, Gyeongnam, Korea ) Rationale: True anterior temporal electrodes (TATEs, T1 and T2) are as effective as mini-sphenoidal electrodes, and significantly superior to anterior temporal electrodes (ATEs, F7 and F8) to detect epileptiform discharges. In addition, non-invasiveness makes TATEs more useful in clinical application. Low Resolution Brain Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA) is a mathematical model for the reconstruction of current source from digitalized scalp electroencephalography (EEG). Using LORETA, we investigated the current source distribution patterns of interictal spikes on TATEs and those on ATEs respectively, and tried to find the difference between them. Methods: In the each digital scalp EEG of epileptic patients showing the interictal spikes of maximum amplitude on T1, T2, F7 or F8, we selected the most typical spike. The EEGs of ten patients were enrolled for the spike on each electrode respectively. All the 40 patients were epileptics and had complex partial seizures. The EEG data were collected from 21 channels using an average reference montage. In each typical spike, one time frame showing the highest amplitude of global power field was selected and LORETA image was acquired using that time frame. The average LORETA images for each electrode were obtained respectively. The Statistical non-Parametric Map (SnPM) between spikes on T1 and those on F7, and the SnPM between the spikes on T2 and those on F8 were acquired. Results: The current source density in the average LORETA image of T1 spikes were maximum in Brodmann areas (BAs) 20 and 21. That of T2 spikes were maximum in BAs 13 and 21. The current sources of T1 and T2 spikes were mainly located in the anterior temporal area, and rare in the frontal lobe. The current source density in average LORETA image of F7 spikes were maximum in BAs 21, 13, 45 and 46. That of F8 spikes were maximum in BAs 13, 21 and 11. The current sources of F7 and F8 spikes were mainly located in the anterior temporal area and it was also observed in the insular cortex and the inferior frontal area. The difference of current source density in the SnPM between T1 and F7 spikes was maximal in BA 22 and minimal in BA 45. That difference between T2 and F8 spikes was maximal in BA 29 and minimal in BA 6. Conclusions: Both of TATEs and ATEs may mainly reflect the current source of the anterior temporal area. The current source of the inferior frontal gyrus may be more easily detected by F7 than T1 and that of the superior temporal gyrus by T1 than F7. The current source of the superior frontal and precentral gyrus may be more easily detected by F8 than T2 and that of the posterior cingulate gyrus by T2 than F8. Thus TATEs may have less influences of the current source of the frontal lobe and reflect the current source of the temporal area more specifically than ATEs. 1 Pål G. Larsson, and 1 John Wilson ( 1 Department of Neurodiagnostics, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Norway ) Rationale: The last ten months we carried out a total of 440 recordings of which more than 200 had a manifold increase of epileptic activity during sleep. The majority of these patients had a seizure disorder, but some had only cognitive and/or behavioural disorders. The purpose of this study was to characterize the epileptic activity and relate it to the clinical diagnosis. Methods: All recordings, including at least one night, with epileptic activity during sleep were included. Since many patients had recordings before and after start of drug treatment, only the first recording was included, in total 114. Referrals, and other available information were used for diagnosis. The patients were grouped as having epilepsy, attention deficit (ADHD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or Landau-Kleffner syndrom (LKS). Spike index was calculated as the fraction of time when there was less than 3 s between spikes in 10-minutes epochs. Results: The mean age of the patients was 11 years. There was only one patient below the age of five and three above 17. The mean spike wave index for the whole group was 45.6% during slow wave sleep, 15.8% during REM-sleep and 9.4% awake. The mean number of detected spikes was 15872 during sleep. In the patient group with seizures the mean increase in epileptic activity from awake to sleep was 81.4 times. In patients without seizures the mean increase was 51 times (n = 16). The difference is not significant (p = 0.33). ADHD, ASD and LKS in patients without seizures had a mean increase of 38.1 (n = 5), 9.5 (n = 2) and 22.9 (n = 4) times respectively. The mean inter spike interval during slow sleep was 1.1 s in the seizure group and 2.4 in the non-seizure group (p = 0.0034). Conclusions: There was a significant longer inter spike interval in the group without seizures compared to the epilepsy group. This may indicate that higher spike frequency increases the change of clinical seizures. The increase in epileptic activity during sleep was highest in the ADHD group without seizures, but the difference did not reach significance compared to the epilepsy group. The suprisingly high increase in epileptic activity during sleep in the ADHD group warrants further studies. All groups showed large spread that partly reflects the age differences and partly may be due to heterogeneity in the groups. 1 Tobias Loddenkemper, and 1 Richard C. Burgess ( 1 Department of Epilepsy and Sleep Disorders, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Left hemispheric predominance of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) has been highlighted by a previous study from our center. Lateralization becomes slightly more prominent in adults than in children. However, no data on lateralization of benign focal epileptiform discharges of childhood (BFED) are available. The objective of our study was to determine the distribution, frequency and type of epileptiform abnormalities as a function of age and to compare it with BFEDs and slowing. Methods: The current study retrospectively reviewed all routine (25,935) and multi-hour (5449) EEGs during a consecutive 10 year period. 7704 patients under the age of 18 years were included. All EEGs were read according to a systematic EEG classification system (Lüders et al., 1993). EEGs were reviewed for unilateral epileptiform discharges, unilateral BFED and slowing. The lateralization of the abnormality was counted only once for each patient by including just the first abnormal EEG. Additionally subsequent EEGs of all infants under the age of 3 years with unilateral IED were reviewed for change in lateralization of IED over time. Results: EEG recordings with unilateral regional IED were seen in 612 (8%) pediatric patients; left-sided IED were seen in 260 patients (55%), right-sided in 213 (45%) and both right and left-sided in 139. There was no difference between infants (40 left, 33 right) and older children (220 left, 180 right). BFEDs were seen in 136 (49 left, 50 right, 37 bilateral) out of 7704 pediatric patients (1.8%). No BFEDs were seen under 3 years of age. Continuous unilateral regional slow was seen in 193 patients, with 97 (20 infants) on the left and 96 (18 infants) on the right. Intermittent slow (less than 80% of the recording) was seen in 199 patients (32 infants) on the left (61.6%) and in 123 patients (9 infants) on the right. In 118 infants with unilateral or bilateral regional IED, the lateralization of IED in subsequent EEGs was reviewed. 32 patients with uni- or bilateral IEDs had subsequent EEGs, with localization changed in 9. Two patients converted from left to right (one of these two underwent epilepsy surgery on the left), and none converted from right to left. Five patients with initially left sided and two with initially right sided IED showed bilateral IEDs subsequently. Two patients with initially bilateral AEDs had subsequently right-sided IED in one and left-sided IED in the other. Conclusions: Regional epileptiform discharges were seen in approximately 8% of patients. Interictal epileptiform discharges and intermittent slow were more frequently seen in the left hemisphere. Age adjusted analysis of the data showed no difference between infants and older children. Continuous slow and BFEDs were equally distributed between both hemispheres. Longitudinal follow up of consecutive infant EEGs did not reveal a trend towards IED conversion from one side to the other. 1 Fumisuke Matsuo ( 1 Neurology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake, UT ) Rationale: Advanced digital technology significantly improved accuracy of EEG feature analysis, but detection of interictal focal epileptiform transients (IFET) with clinical relevance continues to depend on human visual analysis. Particularly problematic has been the difficult-to-define spatiotemporal IFET profile that experienced interpreters find no difficulty in recognizing and applying to polygraphic EEG analysis. EEG geometry was examined in IFET polygraphic derivations from randomly chosen clinical cases. The primary objective was to delineate the time-series characteristics of well-formed IFET. The secondary objective was to demonstrte polygraphic variations that indicate subtle variation in IFET source location within an area of unit interelectrode distance. Methods: During 2004 a total of 53 standard EEG cases revealed a varying number of IFET. A representative IFET chosen from each case was reformatted in common average reference derivations. One derivation with the largest IFET deflection was chosen, approximating its source to a 10?20 scalp electrode. The 53 representative IFET were reviewed for waveform criteria culled from the literature, and ranked in a descending order by evaluating the degree of fit, when polygraphically superimposed. Well-formed IFET were then reformatted in serial bipolar derivations for detailed examination of the IFET peak and phase relationship. Results: The first 5 ranked IFET referred to common average reference are summarized in Figure. A well-formed IFET consists of 3 major peaks with different waveform. The third (blunt) peak varied most, and attenuated in lesser-ranked IFET. When displayed in a chain of 5 serial bipolar derivations, phase relationship surrounding the IFET peak differed among cases. This finding was confirmed by examining multiple IFET within each case Conclusions: Digital technology enables the viewer to reformat EEG data off-line and improve EEG feature extraction. The notion of well-formed IFET is elementary, but robust, because it allows to supplement voltage criteria with additional clinically relevant geomatric paramaters, and can improve automated IFET screening and source modeling. Demonstration of phase relationship surrounding the IFET peak specific to each case confirmed the feasibility of demonstrating subtle variation in location of an equivalent current dipole relative to head-surface electrodes. This method is easy to apply in clinical settings and can expand the scope of EEG analysis in space domain. 1 Daniela Minecan, 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Lawrence Hudson ( 1 Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Nonconvulsive status epilepticus(NCSE) is a heterogenous entity, often associated with subtle clinical signs. There are few reports on the electroencephalographic(EEG) patterns in such patients of pediatric age range. NCSE can be further subdivided into 2 groups: complex partial and generalized. Electroencephalograms(EEGs) are known to have a fairly high degree of sensitivity and specificity for identifying NCSE.Some of the patterns previously described in association with NCSE in the pediatric patients include: generalized synchronous discharges, alpha coma, burst suppression pattern. We describe an unusual pattern that was observed in three of our patients that presented with mental status(MS) changes and were diagnosed with NCSE. Methods: Three patients(age 3?8 years) who presented with MS changes and decreased responsiveness were evaluated at the University of Michigan Hospital. Clinical features(age at presentation, previous history of any kind of seizures, duration of symptoms) and EEGs were assessed. Other diagnostic tests were obtained in each of the patients, according to the clinical presentation. The EEGs were performed with a number of standard bipolar and referential montages, according to the international 10?20 system of electrode placement. All three patients were loaded with antiepileptic drugs, and two of them required antibiotic treatment as well. Results: In two of the patients, the background activity was characterized by very high amplitude(>250uV) delta activity(1?2Hz) and which was diffusely distributed. This was at times rhythmic, but without clear evolution. In one patient, there were multifocal independent sharp waves noted, with no specific hemisphere predominance. In the other patient, independent right/left frontal sharp waves were present. The third patient EEG was notable for a very high amplitude delta activity(1?2Hz) over the right hemisphere and loss of faster frequencies within the same region. Bursts of high amplitude rhythmic 2.5 Hz spike and wave activity, up to 15 seconds in duration, were present over the left frontal region and less often over the left temporal region. No distinct clinical events were noted, other than the MS changes. All EEG patterns improved in paralel with the clinical symptoms, with gradual return of the MS to the previous baseline status. Conclusions: The very high amplitude rhythmic delta activity, whether focal or generalized, is an unusual and not previously described EEG pattern in NCSE. All our patients were younger than 10 years at the time of onset, which raises the question of an age dependent underlying pathophysiologic mechanism responsible. More EEG studies of patients in NCSE will need to be observed in order to confirm how prevalent this EEG pattern might be and to better characterize its clinical associations(e.g.age, etiology). This may also contribute to the better and early identification of this category of patients and rapid institution of treatment. 1 Hian-Tat Ong, 2 Karen J.L. Lim, 1 Poh-Chan Low, 2 Stacey K.H. Tay, 1 Shang-Chee Chong, and 2 Poh-Sim Low ( 1 Children's Medical Institute, National University Hospital, Singapore, Singapore ; and 2 Paediatrics, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore ) Rationale: Hyperventilation (HV) is an important activation procedure during routine pediatric electroencephalograph (EEG) recording. Nevertheless, there is little scientific evidence to allow standardization of the HV procedure, in particular the duration of HV required, to be deemed adequate. We attempt to determine the adequacy of HV in pediatric subjects during EEG recording, by assessing the degree of EEG build-up of slow activity and the corresponding non-invasive end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2) measurement. Methods: Following informed consent by the parents or adult caregivers, we assessed a total of 117 pediatric subjects aged 5 to 16 years who were scheduled for routine EEG studies during a 3-year period from April 2002 to March 2005. The inclusion criteria were the subject's ability to perform adequate HV and a normal waking EEG background. All subjects performed HV for 4 minutes. An electronic metronome was used to synchronize the over-breathing for all subjects in order to achieve an optimal respiratory rate of 30 per minute. A nasal cannula was attached to the subject and the EtCO2 values were recorded using a Nellcor NPB-75 capnometer. The EEG build-up of slow activity was categorized according to the severity of slowing within a 10-second epoch of the EEG recording, as previously reported by Yamatani et al. The four categories consisted of: an increase in amplitude but no intermixed slow waves (+), mild or partial transient slowing (++), moderate slowing (+++), and marked slowing with disappearance of background activity (++++). Results: The mean EtCO2 values and their standard deviations after starting HV were (30.7 ± 5.0) mm Hg at 1 minute, (27.7 ± 5.0) mm Hg at 2 minutes, (26.2 ± 4.8) mm Hg at 3 minutes, and (26.1 ± 4.9) mm Hg at 4 minutes. The number of subjects showing the 4 different degrees of EEG slowing at various time periods after commencing HV is shown in the table. Conclusions: Our study showed that when performing hyperventilation, there was a correlation between the EtCO2 values achieved and the degree of EEG slowing present, for the duration of HV till 3 minutes. However, the EtCO2 values and the degree EEG slowing did not show a significant difference between HV for 3 minutes versus HV for 4 minutes. Thus, the results of our study suggest that good hyperventilation effort for 3 minutes is sufficient and this could be used for standardization of the duration of HV required in routine pediatric EEG recording. (Supported by National Healthcare Group (Singapore) cluster research fund: Grant Number NHG-PRP-01139.) Number of subjects showing different degree of EEG slowing during various intervals of HV Degree of EEG slowing + ++ +++ ++++ HV at 1 minute 56 49 12 ?0 HV at 2 minutes 33 57 24 ?3 HV at 3 minutes 22 57 28 10 HV at 4 minutes 31 51 25 10 1 Maryann Pelkey, 1 Sanjeev V. Kothare, 1 Geoffrey Harrison, and 1 Divya S. Khurana ( 1 Section of Neurology, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Attainment of sleep during an EEG is important as interictal epileptiform discharges are often enhanced during drowsiness, stage I and stage II sleep and transition from drowsiness to arousal. Sleep deprivation is often used as a technique to obtain sleep during a routine EEG recording while some EEG laboratories routinely sedate young children to obtain a sleep recording. Both techniques have their drawbacks. Hyperventilation during an EEG is often followed by drowsiness; we therefore hypothesized that hyperventilation early in the course of an EEG would encourage sleep production. Conversely, photic stimulation early in an EEG delays sleep due to its arousing effect. Methods: This was a prospective study of children over the age of 2 years who were scheduled for a non sleep deprived EEG between 9?11 am in the Neurophysiology Laboratory of a tertiary children's hospital over a 3 month period. The first 32 children received photic stimulation in the beginning of the EEG and hyperventilation at the end; the next 32 children were hyperventilated early in the course of the EEG and photic stimulation was performed at the end of the EEG. Both groups were assessed for presence or absence of sleep during their EEG recording. Results: One of the 32 (3.1%) children in the first group who received photic stimulation in the beginning of the recording transitioned to sleep. Twelve of 32 children (37.5%) who hyperventilated at the beginning of the recording attained stage II sleep. This was statistically significant (p = 0.001). Conclusions: Hyperventilation performed early during an EEG increases the likelihood of attaining sleep, while photic stimulation early in the recording decreases the chances of inducing sleep. Therefore, in order to optimize attainment of sleep, pediatric neurophysiology labs should routinely begin the EEG with hyperventilation and end with photic stimulation 1 Mark Quigg, 2 Boris Kovatchev, and 2 Daniel Cox ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; and 2 Psychiatric Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: Driving performance is a skill in which impaired vigilance due to diabetic hypoglycemia (HG) has both personal and public health consequences. Studies with the use of a driving simulator show that driving impairment occurs coincident with impaired vigilance measured by EEG that accompanies onset of hypoglycemic symptoms. We evaluate whether recent driving history or awareness of HG during driving are associated with changes in EEG-vigilance measured while driving during euglycemia (EG) or during HG. Methods: Simulated driving was monitored in two 30 minute trials on 2 consecutive days. During EG driving, blood glucose (BG) was maintained through an insulin clamp to levels ?100 mg/dl. For HG driving, BG was gradually decreased from an initial target of ?70 mg/dl to ?50 mg/dl. Self-treatment of hypoglycemia was scored as ?present ? or ?absent? depending on whether the patient drank a ?sugar soda? (a non-sugar, diet soda) to correct perceived HG symptoms during simulated driving. Recent driving mishaps were scored according to the patients' self-report of driving accidents or moving citations within the past two years. Multi-channel digital EEG was acquired was acquired during simulated driving trials. Relative EEG spectral power data was averaged into five-minute epochs to correspond with BG sampling rate. The difference between relative alpha and theta powers at the central vertex (ATDiff) was used to quantify vigilance. Outcomes were modeled using binary logistic regression with self-treament (+/?) and driving mishaps (+/?) as dependent variables, and BG and ATDiff during EG and HG epochs as independent variables.? Results: Thirty-two subjects completed both EG and HG trials. 60% self-treated HG during HG driving, and 68% admitted to recent driving mishaps. Driving history and self-treatment were not significantly associated (Chi square = 2.54, p = 0.28). Subjects overall showed increasing delta power with decreasing BG. In the case of driving mishaps, increasing ATDiff during both EG (B = 4.13, p = 0.008) and HG (B = 3.41, p = 0.02) driving trials predicted driving mishaps. In the case of self-treatment of HG, decreasing ATDiff during HG driving did not significantly predict self-treatment. However, values of ATDiff increasingly diverged with worsening BG, with self-treating subjects experiencing decreasing ATDiff. Conclusions: Task-acquired EEG shows worse vigilance in diabetics who successfully recognize and treat HG. EEG vigilance is impaired in diabetics who have no self-reported history of driving mishaps. These findings suggest that mechanisms independent of EEG vigilance may allow compensation for hypoglycemia-associated performance. 1 Rajesh RamachandranNair, 1 Jacob M. Muthalaly, 1 Manoj Parameswaran, and 1 Vellani T. Ajithkumar ( 1 Neurology, Medicine, Pediatrics, Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, India ) Rationale: Both acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) and Herpes Simplex encephalitis (HSE) can present with alteration in sensorium and seizures. Access to immediate MRI brain may not be available in developing world. Early diagnosis and treatment determines outcome in HSE. Steroids, used to treat ADEM, can be harmful in HSE. Aim of our study was to compare the early electroencephalographic (EEG) findings in ADEM and HSE to aid dignostic differentiation. Methods: Patients presenting with seizures and altered sensorium, who were subsequently diagnosed either as ADEM or HSE based on MRI brain and virological studies (CSF-PCR and rising titer of CSF HSV antibody), were included in the study. EEGs performed within 72 hours after the onset of neurological symptoms were analysed for background activity, interictal epileptiform activity (including periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges-PLEDs) and ictal discharges. Incidence of abnormal EEG patterns in ADEM and HSE were compared using X2/Fisher's test. Results: EEGs were performed within 72 hours in 21 patients (age 2?56 years, mean 18.6 yrs) with ADEM and 32 patients (age 4?72 years; mean 23.7 yrs) with HSE. All 53 EEGs were abnormal due to background slowing or epileptic discharges. Early EEG findings in ADEM and HSE Variable ADEM HSE p value Total No of patients during study period 39 37 - No of patients who satisfied clinical inclusion criteria 23 34 - No of patients who satisfied clinical and EEG criteria 21 32 - Background slowing 19 32 - Generalized 12 18 0.2?? Only Focal ?7 14 - Only Fronto-temporal ?3 14 0.02? Extra-Frontotemporal ?4 ?0 0.02? Epileptiform discharges ?9 24 0.007 Generalised ?2 8 - Focal/Multifocal ?7 16 - Only Frontotemporal ?3 16 0.007 Extra-Frontotemporal ?4 ?0 0.02? PLEDs ?2 10 0.05? BiPLEDs ?0 4 0.12? Seizures ?1 ?7 0.08? Background slowing was seen (generalised  and 2 Center for Health Effectiveness Research, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: Prediction of cognitive function has been difficult in children with epilepsy, since cognitive dysfunction in epilepsy involves multiple causes. We determined whether occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness can independently predict cognitive function in children with focal epilepsy. Methods: A total of 33 children (age: 6?17 years; 20 boys) with focal epilepsy were included in the study. None of the subjects had visual, hearing, or motor deficits. Children with idiopathic childhood epilepsy with occipital paroxysms or central-temporal spikes were also excluded. Occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness with eye closure and interictal spike frequency during wakefulness were quantitatively measured by scalp EEG. Interictal spike frequency was categorized into four groups (0, 0?1, 1?10, and >10 per minute; Asano et al, 2004). A hierarchical multiple regression analysis was performed to determine whether age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency can predict the full-scale IQ independently from spike frequency category and the number of antiepileptic medications taken by the patient. Results: An analysis of the zero-order correlations revealed that each of the three predictors (age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency, spike frequency category and the number of anti-epileptic medications) is about equally correlated to full-scale IQ and each of these predictors accounted for 20%?23% of the variance (p < 0.01 for all three predictors). In a hierarchical multiple regression analysis, the categorical measure of spike frequency and the number of medications used were entered in the first step and accounted for 31% of the variance in the IQ measure (F(2, 30) = 6.77, p = 0.004). In a second step of the analysis the age-adjusted occipital alpha peak frequency was entered and accounted for an additional 13% of the variance (F(1, 29) = 6.49, p = 0.016). Conclusions: Occipital alpha peak frequency during quiet wakefulness is an important factor independently predicting the full-scale IQ in children with focal epilepsy even after controlling for both interictal spike frequency and the number of anti-epileptic medications. Quantitative measurement of occipital alpha peak frequency and interictal spike frequency data extracted from a single video-EEG session combined with the number of antiepileptic drugs may provide important information for prognosis of overall cognitive function in children with focal epilepsy. (Supported by NIH: K23NS047550.) 1 Michelle J. Shapiro, 2 D. Barry Sinclair, and 3 S. Nizam Ahmed ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada ; 2 Department of Pediatric Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ; and 3 Department of Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Intermittent photic stimulation (IPS) is used routinely as an activation procedure for electroencephalographs (EEGs) in the pediatric population. Photosensitivity is relatively more prevalent in children than in adults. The purpose of this study was to determine the proportion of pediatric epilpetiform EEGs in which photic stimulation altered the overall impression of the EEG, thus adding additional information to the baseline. Methods: One hundred consecutive EEGs performed at the University of Alberta Hospital on patients 18 years or younger, that had unequivocal epileptiform abnormalities and activation by IPS were reviewed. Demographics including patient age, sex, clinical diagnosis, and reason for the EEG were collected. A determination was made as to whether IPS altered the overall impression of the EEG. Results: There were 62 males and 38 females. Forty-two patients were noted to have photic driving. Fifty patients had evidence of epileptic activity during photic stimulation, which was determined not to be linked to the stimulus. In 3 patients, there was epileptic activity during IPS with possibile association to the stimulus. In 3 patients IPS provided information not available otherwise. Out of these 3 patients, one had photosenstive Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy, the second had occipital spikes that generalized during IPS, and the third patient had evidence of occipital dominant spikes and polyspikes during IPS, a finding not seen on the baseline EEG. The finding of photosensitivity did not alter the management plan for any of these patients. Conclusions: This study demonstrates a prevalence of 3% photosensitivity amongst pediatric patients with known epileptic abnormalities on their EEG. These numbers are lower than those described by Wolf and Goosses (1), who reported a prevalence of 10%, in their review of of more than 1000 patients. The discrepancy could be related to the difference in sample size or merely to genetic heterogenity in the different samples. Interestingly all our photosensitive patients were females supporting the previously published literature on higher prevalence of photosensitivity in females. Considering the prevalence of photosensitivity in the epileptic population and the benign nature of the procedure, we support this activation procedure in routine practice. REFERENCE 1.?Wolf P, Goosses R. Relation of photosensitivity to epileptic syndromes. J Neruol Neruosurg Psychiat 1986;49: 1386?1391. 1 Ulrich Specht, 2 Matthias Hoppe, 1 Rupprecht Thorbecke, 2 Alois Ebner, and 1 Bernd Pohlmann-Eden ( 1 Rehabilitation Unit, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 2 EEG-Video-Department, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: The uncertainty of increased risks of seizure provocation due to conditions of the workplace is considered to contribute to the high rates of unemployment in patients with epilepsy. In Germany, the diagnosis of epilepsy frequently leads to restrictions concerning workplaces with computer monitor displays, even in patients without photosensitivity. Current knowledge about photosensitive patients does not give evidence for an increased risk of seizures in such a setting, e.g. because of the high refresh frequencies (≥75 Hz) of modern PC monitor displays; however studies with EEG registration in patients working at a PC monitor display have not been undertaken. Methods: Patients 16 years and older with a documented photoparoxysmal response (PPR), i.e. epileptiform EEG discharges (ED) provoked by intermittent photic stimulation (IPS), were included. They underwent a standardized EEG procedure with simultaneous video recording. It comprised three evaluation periods in randomized order, each lasting 10 minutes: 1) baseline period (resting condition), 2) PC-test period (reading and editing a text at a personal computer using a word processing program), 3) control period (reading and editing a similar text printed on a white paper). For the PC-test period, a commercially available personal computer with a 17 inches cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor display (resolution 800x600 dpi, refresh rate of 85 Hz) was used. The number and duration of ED during each of the evaluation periods were assessed by two blinded examiners. In addition, standard IPS was performed in order to document present PPR. Results: Sixteen patients were evaluated. During the procedure, four did not show PPR on IPS and thus were excluded. In 8 of the remaining 12 patients, ED occurred at least during one of the three evaluation periods. There was no statistical significant increase in number and duration of ED in the PC-test period compared to the control and baseline periods. ED tended to occur more frequently in the baseline period. No clinical seizure was recorded during the study. Conclusions: In accordance with the current literature using IPS, this study does not give evidence for an increased risk of seizure precipitation in photosensitive patients when using a word processing program displayed on a commercially available 17?? CRT PC monitor display. Thus, restrictions concerning workplaces with computer monitor displays such as office work are not warranted. (Supported by UCB Pharma GMBH, Kerpen, Germany.) 1 Ian A. Stein, and 1 Geetha Chari ( 1 Neurology, SUNY-Health Science Centers of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, NY ) Rationale: To characterize EEG abnormalities found on EEGs of pediatric psychiatric inpatients. Methods: A retrospective analysis of all EEGs ordered by the Kings County Hospital Center inpatient pediatric psychiatric unit between July 2000 and December 2004 was performed. EEGs were performed using the guidelines of the ACNS. Clinical information was restricted to the history provided on the EEG request forms. The EEGs were interpreted by a neurologist board certified in clinical neurophysiology. Reports were written according to ACNS guidelines. The results of this study were obtained by analyzing information from these reports Results: Between January 2000 and December 2004 a total of 411 EEGs were performed on patient admitted to the pediatric psychiatry service at Kings County Hospital. 24 patients had repeat studies. 387 EEGs were included into the analysis. There were 282 males and 105 females. The age of patients ranged between 5 and 17 years, with an average age of 11.5 years. 134 patients (35%) had abnormal EEGs 93 patients had a non-epileptiform abnormality (e.g. background slowing, focal slowing) alone, while 26 patients had only epileptiform activity. 20 patients had both epileptiform and non-epileptiform abnormalities. Of the 46 (11.9%) patients with epileptiform activity, 26 patients had focal discharges, and 18 patients had generalized discharges. 2 patients had both focal and generalized activity. Conclusions: There is a greater incidence of EEG abnormalities in our study when compared with previously published data on normal children. While the rates of abnormal EEG findings in our population were similar to those seen in the adult psychiatric patients, epileptiform activity was more frequent in pediatric patients. Further studies are required to determine the clinical significance of these findings. (Supported by SUNY-Health Sciences Center of Brooklyn, Department of Neurology.) 1 James X. Tao, 1 Amit Ray, 1 Baldwin Maria, 1 Sona Shah, 1 Susan Hawes-Ebersole, and 1 John S. Ebersole ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: To determine the cerebral EEG substrates of scalp EEG seizure patterns, and thus to assess the value of scalp ictal recording in the lateralization and localization of seizure onset zones in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: We recorded simultaneously 26 channels of scalp EEG with sub-temporal supplementary electrodes and 46?98 channels of intracranial EEG in presurgical candidates with temporal lobe epilepsy. Subdural electrodes covered the anterior two-thirds of the temporal lobe in all patients. We studied the influence of intracranial EEG source area and synchrony at seizure onset on corresponding scalp EEG correlates. Eighty-six simultaneous intracranial- and scalp-recorded seizures from 23 patients were evaluated. Results: Thirty-four intracranial ictal discharges (40%) from 9 patients (39%) had sufficient source area (namely > 10 cm2) and synchrony at seizure onset to produce a nearly simultaneous focal scalp EEG ictal pattern. Forty-one intracranial ictal discharges (48%) from 10 patients (43%) gradually achieved the necessary source area and synchrony over several seconds to generate a scalp EEG ictal pattern. These scalp rhythms were lateralized, but less localizable. Eleven intracranial ictal discharges (13%) from 4 patients (17%) recruited the necessary source area, but lacked sufficient synchrony to generate clearly localized or lateralized scalp EEG ictal patterns. Conclusions: Sufficient source area and synchrony are mandatory cerebral EEG substrates for generating scalp-recordable ictal EEG patterns. When the necessary source area and synchrony are achieved at or near seizure onset, the scalp EEG pattern can localize the cerebral seizure onset zone. However, if achieving necessary source area and synchrony requires several seconds, during which time more distant propagation may occur, the resultant scalp ictal pattern may only lateralize, but not localize, the seizure onset zone. (Supported by Brain Research Fundation.) 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2,3 Don M. Tucker, 2 Micah Brown, 1,4 Russell P. Saneto, and 5 Jeffrey G. Ojemann ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesics, Inc., Eugene, OR ; 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ; 4 Division Pediatric Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 5 Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: We describe a case report of a subject with intractable extratemporal epilepsy who underwent pre-operative longterm EEG-video monitoring (LTM) with 128 channel scalp recordings, following completion of standard (sparse array) LTM. She underwent subdural, intracranial grid and strip LTM recordings, after standard methods failed to provide adequate seizure localization. We compare the results of seizure onsets predicted on the basis of dense array scalp EEG to that obtained from the invasive recordings. Methods: A 13 year old girl, a potential surgical candidate, presented with medically refractory daily complex partial seizures. Clinical exam and MRI studies were unrevealing. Standard EEGs demonstrated abundant interictal discharges over left posterior quadrant, particularly over left parietal regions (P3). Standard scalp LTM recorded seizures that were poorly localized over the left posterior quadrant. One of her habitual clinical seizures was captured during 48 hours of dense array LTM. Using a linear inverse method of EEG source analysis (LAURA), seizure onset and propagation patterns were displayed on a standard MRI model, prior to invasive studies. Invasive LTM studies included subdural grid and strips placed over the left, and subdural strips placed over the right, posterior quadrants. Results: Analysis of dense array data predicted that seizure onset occurred over the left inferior posterior temporal-occipital regions, followed by rapid spread to right lateral posterior temporal cortex, left lateral posterior temporal cortex, and subsequently to the left superior parietal region. These predictions, including both seizure onset and propagation patterns, were confirmed on analysis of invasive ictal EEG recordings. Surgical resection was performed, based on the invasive EEG data. Conclusions: Dense array EEG, used in conjunction with source analysis and a realistic MRI model, has the potential to localize seizure onsets and propagation patterns, when standard noninvasive methods fail. This is the first report demonstrating that dense array LTM studies are possible, and that predictions based on these studies are confirmed on the basis of intracranial EEG recordings. Future research will determine if the use of these new techniques will reduce the need for invasive LTM in the surgical evaluation of subjects with difficult epilepsy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hoofnagle, J H
AU  - Lombardero, M
AU  - Zetterman, R K
AU  - Lake, J
AU  - Porayko, M
AU  - Everhart, J
AU  - Belle, S H
AU  - Detre, K M
TI  - Donor age and outcome of liver transplantation
JO  - Hepatology
JA  - Hepatology
VL  - 24
IS  - 1
SN  - 0270-9139
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hep.510240116
DO  - doi:10.1002/hep.510240116
SP  - 89
EP  - 96
PY  - 1996
AB  - Abstract To evaluate the effect of donor age on graft and patient outcome after liver transplantation an analysis of a large-scale cohort study was performed at three tertiary referral liver transplant centers. Between April 1990 and June 1994, 772 adults underwent an initial single-organ liver transplantation. The age of the donors averaged 35 years;193 (25%) were 50 or above, the age used to define ?older? donors. Groups were compared for demographic, clinical, and biochemical features. Outcome was measured using results of biochemical tests after transplantation and by graft and patient survival. Compared with younger donors, older donors were more commonly women (59% vs. 33%:P ≤ .001) and died of central nervous system causes (79% vs. 28%) as opposed to trauma (13% vs. 63%:P ≤ .001). The recipients of the two groups of donor livers did not differ in important respects. However, intraoperatively, livers from older donors were more likely to be assessed as either ?poor? or ?fair? as opposed to ?good? (17% vs. 4%:P ≤ .001) by the harvesting surgeon and to have initial ?poor? or ?fair? bile production (29% vs. 18%:P ≤ .001). During the first week postoperatively, the serum aminotransferase and bilirubin levels and prothrombin times were higher in recipients of older than those of younger donor livers. During follow-up, graft survival was less for recipients of older donor livers at 3 months (81% vs.91%:P = .0001) and at 1 (76% vs. 85%:P = .007) and 2 years (71% vs. 80%:P = .005); patient survival showed similar though less marked differences. This association of donor age and poorer graft survival persisted after adjusting for many variables using bivariate and multivariate analyses. Importantly, however, the association with poor graft survival was largely among recipients of older donor livers, the quality of which was assessed as fair or poor by the harvesting surgeon; recipients of older donor livers assessed as good had a retransplant-free survival similar to that of younger donor livers (87% vs. 91% at 3 months). Thus, use of older donor livers, the quality of which are judged to be good by the harvesting surgeon, is not associated with a decrease in patient or graft survival after liver transplantation. differences. This association of donor age and poorer graft survival persisted after adjusting for many variables using bivariate and multivariate analyses. Importantly, however, the association with poorer graft survival was largely among recipients of older donor livers, the quality of which was assessed as fair or poor by the harvesting surgeon; recipients of older donor livers, the quality of which was assessed as fair or poor by the harvesting surgeon; recipients of older donor livers assessed as good had a retransplant-free survival similar to that of younger donor livers (87% vs. 91% at 3 months). Thus, use of older donor livers, the quality of which are judged to be good by the harvesting surgeon, is not associated with a decrease in patient or graft survival after liver transplantation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - International Neuromodulation Society's 13th World Congress Neuromodulation: Technology Changing Lives Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom May 27–June 1, 2017
JO  - Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface
JA  - Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface
VL  - 20
IS  - 7
SN  - 1094-7159
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ner.12647
DO  - doi:10.1111/ner.12647
SP  - e336
EP  - e783
PY  - 2017
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dyne, Pamela L.
AU  - Strauss, Robert W.
AU  - Rinnert, Stephan
TI  - Systems-Based Practice: The Sixth Core Competency
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
VL  - 9
IS  - 11
SN  - 1069-6563
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1197/aemj.9.11.1270
DO  - doi:10.1197/aemj.9.11.1270
SP  - 1270
EP  - 1277
KW  - systems
KW  - medical practice
KW  - core competency
KW  - assessment
PY  - 2002
AB  - Systems-Based Practice (SBP) is the sixth competency defined by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Outcome Project. Specifically, SBP requires ?Residents [to] demonstrate an awareness of and responsiveness to the larger context and system of health care and the ability to effectively call on system resources to provide care that is of optimal value.? This competency can be divided into four subcompetencies, all of which are integral to training emergency medicine (EM) physicians: resources, providers, and systems; cost-appropriate care; delivery systems; and patient advocacy. In March 2002, the Council of Emergency Medicine Residency Directors (CORD-EM) convened a consensus conference to assist residency directors in modifying the SBP competency specific for EM. The Consensus Group modified the broad ACGME definition for SBP into EM-specific goals and objectives for residency training in SBP. The primary assessment methods from the Toolbox of Assessment Methods were also identified for SBP. They are direct observation, global ratings, 360-degree evaluations, portfolio assessment, and testing by both oral and written exams. The physician tasks from the Model of the Clinical Practice of Emergency Medicine that are most relevant to SBP are out-of-hospital care, modifying factors, legal/professional issues, diagnostic studies, consultation and disposition, prevention and education, multitasking, and team management. Suggested EM residency curriculum components for SBP are already in place in most residency programs, so no additional resources would be required for their implementation. These include: emergency medical services and administrative rotations, directed reading, various interdisciplinary and hospital committee participation, continuous quality improvement project participation, evidence-based medicine instruction, and various didactic experiences, including follow-up, interdisciplinary, and case conferences. With appropriate integration and evaluation of this competency into training programs, it is likely that future generations of physicians and patients will reap the benefits of an educational system that is based on well-defined outcomes and a more systemic view of health care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lee, Yee-Shuan
AU  - Wu, Siliang
AU  - Arinzeh, Treena Livingston
AU  - Bunge, Mary Bartlett
TI  - Enhanced noradrenergic axon regeneration into schwann cell-filled PVDF-TrFE conduits after complete spinal cord transection
JO  - Biotechnology and Bioengineering
JA  - Biotechnol. Bioeng.
VL  - 114
IS  - 2
SN  - 0006-3592
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/bit.26088
DO  - doi:10.1002/bit.26088
SP  - 444
EP  - 456
KW  - Schwann cells
KW  - spinal cord injury
KW  - electrospinning
KW  - conduit
KW  - PVDF-TrFE
KW  - aligned fibers
PY  - 2017
AB  - ABSTRACT Schwann cell (SC) transplantation has been utilized for spinal cord repair and demonstrated to be a promising therapeutic strategy. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of combining SC transplantation with novel conduits to bridge the completely transected adult rat spinal cord. This is the first and initial study to evaluate the potential of using a fibrous piezoelectric polyvinylidene fluoride trifluoroethylene (PVDF-TrFE) conduit with SCs for spinal cord repair. PVDF-TrFE has been shown to enhance neurite growth in vitro and peripheral nerve repair in vivo. In this study, SCs adhered and proliferated when seeded onto PVDF-TrFE scaffolds in vitro. SCs and PVDF-TrFE conduits, consisting of random or aligned fibrous inner walls, were transplanted into transected rat spinal cords for 3 weeks to examine early repair. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)+ astrocyte processes and GFP (green fluorescent protein)-SCs were interdigitated at both rostral and caudal spinal cord/SC transplant interfaces in both types of conduits, indicative of permissivity to axon growth. More noradrenergic/D?H+ (dopamine-beta-hydroxylase) brainstem axons regenerated across the transplant when greater numbers of GFAP+ astrocyte processes were present. Aligned conduits promoted extension of D?H+ axons and GFAP+ processes farther into the transplant than random conduits. Sensory CGRP+ (calcitonin gene-related peptide) axons were present at the caudal interface. Blood vessels formed throughout the transplant in both conduits. This study demonstrates that PVDF-TrFE conduits harboring SCs are promising for spinal cord repair and deserve further investigation. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2017;114: 444?456. ? 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: EEG–Video Monitoring
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_4.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_4.x
SP  - 23
EP  - 34
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Elaine C. Wirrell, and 2 Christina Cheung ( 1 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Faculty of Medicine, Queens University, Kingston, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Adolescent perception of physical and social impact of chronic illness was assessed to determine a) is there greater prejudice toward epilepsy than other chronic disease, b) do adolescents with chronic disease have less prejudice towards similarly affected peers with all, or just their specific chronic disease. Methods: Cohort study. Setting: Outpatient clinics of a tertiary care pediatric hospital. Participants: Cognitively normal teens aged 13?18 without chronic disease (n = 41) and with epilepsy (n = 32), asthma (n = 38), diabetes (n = 21) and migraine (n = 17). Main Outcome Measures: Perceived physical and social impact of 8 chronic diseases (epilepsy, asthma, diabetes, Down's syndrome, arthritis, migraine, leukemia, HIV infection). Results: Epilepsy was perceived to have more adverse physical impact than all chronic illnesses except Down's syndrome. The perception was that it more frequently caused mental handicap, injured the afflicted individual and bystanders and led to death. Epilepsy was also perceived to have more negative social impact particularly on behavior, honesty, popularity, adeptness at sports and fun. Significantly more adolescents' expressed reluctance to befriend peers with epilepsy both from their own and their perceived parental perspectives. Having a chronic disease did not generally alter adolescents' perceptions of peers with chronic disease. However cases with epilepsy ranked this disease to have less social impact than teens with other chronic diseases. Conclusions: Adolescents consider epilepsy to have a greater physical and social impact than most chronic diseases. Educational efforts should focus on the ?normality? of most persons with epilepsy, and emphasize the low risk of injury when proper first aide is followed. 1 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 Veriano Alexandre Jr., 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Roger Walz, 1 Charles L. Dalmagro, 1 Regina M.F. Fernandes, 1 Juliana S. Lage, and 1 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology, CIREP, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Fourteen and six positive spiking is an electroencephalographic phenomenon first described by Gibbs and Gibbs in 1951 as bursts of arch-shaped surface positive waves at 14  and 2 Department of Neurology, Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center, Winston-Salem, NC ) Rationale: Bradycardia and asystole occurring during seizures are thought to be possible risk factors for SUDEP in patients with epilepsy. Pacemaker implantation has been carried out in most patients because of concerns of potential cardiac morbidity and mortality. Literature review of patients reported to have ictal asystole and pacemakers implanted show them to have a long history of seizures and better control of seizures following diagnosis and change in treatment resulting in lack of pacemaker activation. We report a patient with ictal asystole on VEEG who failed prior montherapy that was subsequently treated with Levetiracetam (LEV) and did not undergo pacemaker implantation. Methods: The case is a 27 year old female with a 4 year history of spells consisting of an aura of deja vu and fear followed by loss of consciousness for less than 30 seconds. She was also described as becoming limp with tongue biting and incontinence but no tonic clonic activity. Due to lack of response to Topiramate and need to characterize spells, she underwent VEEG monitoring. Results: VEEG recording of 2 events were done. The two events were preceded by tachycardia which was up to 200 beats per minute(bpm) followed by asystole for 20 seconds in one and tachycardia of 120 bpms followed by bradycardia of 30 seconds in the other. (VEEG will be shown at meeting).There was brief right temporal theta seziure activity seen preceding the second event. SPECT injection was normal. The patient was placed on LEV and underwent a Reveal Loop recorder implantation for continuous EKG recording. The patient has been seizure free for 6 months with no cardiac arrhythmias detected. Conclusions: Ictal asystole has not been associated with increased mortality from epilepsy. The occurrence of asystole during seizures in patients with longstanding epilepsy and reports that seizures may respond to antiepileptic medication supports this concept. Patterns of heart rate change leading to ictal asystole appear unique and will be discussed. Further studies looking at larger numbers of patients with comprehensive cardiac evaluation are needed to further understand the concept of SUDEP rather than single aspects such as bradyarrhythmias. This case suggests that ictal asystole may not necessitate pacemaker implantation. 1 Luis Otavio S. Caboclo, 1 Henrique Carrete Jr., 1 Ricardo S. Centeno, 1 Elza Marcia T. Yacubian, and 1,2 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Universidade Federal de S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Universidade de S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and unilateral severe hippocampal sclerosis (HS) may have contralateral temporal scalp ictal onset. This has recently been called ?burned-out hippocampus,? which is believed to be a rare entity (1). In this study we report four patients with unilateral hippocampal sclerosis and contralateral ictal onset registered by scalp-sphenoidal electrodes. We discuss the importance of such cases in pre-surgical evaluation of patients with TLE, as well as possible strategies used for evaluation of these particular cases. Methods: We reviewed charts from all patients with TLE submitted to pre-surgical evaluation, which included high resolution MRI and prolonged video-EEG monitoring, during a two-year period (2003?2004). We searched for patients who only had seizures that were clearly contralateral in location to the atrophic hippocampus. Results: Four patients fulfilled the criteria above. All four had unilateral HS with severely atrophic hippocampus, confirmed by volumetric measures. Two of these patients went through semi-invasive video-EEG monitoring with foramen ovale (FO) electrodes, which revealed seizures originating from the atrophic hippocampus, hence confirming false lateralization in the scalp EEG. These patients were submitted to surgical treatment ? anterior temporal lobectomy ? and had favorable prognosis after surgery. The other two patients are still going through pre-surgical evaluation. Conclusions: Burned-out hippocampus syndrome may not be as rare as it was previously believed. Further studies will be necessary before one can affirm that patients with unilateral HS and scalp ictal EEG showing contralateral ictal onset may be operated without confirmation of the epileptogenic zone by invasive monitoring. In these patients, semi-invasive monitoring with FO electrodes might be an interesting alternative. REFERENCE 1.?Mintzer S, Cendes F, Soss J, Andermann F, Engel J Jr., Dubeau F, Olivier A, Fried I. Unilateral hippocampal sclerosis with contralateral temporal scalp ictal onset. Epilepsia 2004;45: 792?802. (Supported by FAPESP (Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo) and CAPES (Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior)/CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico).) 1 David R. Chabolla ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: To determine if whispering or feeble motor displays in response to commands during the initial post-ictal recovery of responsiveness can help to differentiate epileptic from psychogenic seizures. Methods: Video-EEG recordings from 100 consecutive adult admissions to the EMU during 2003 and 2004 were reviewed. The medical history and clinical follow-up after EMU dismissal were also reviewed. Cases were divided into three diagnostic categories: 1) epileptic seizures (ES), 2) physiological events (phyE) that included movement disorders, parasomnias, and syncope, 3) psychogenic nonepileptic seizure (pNES) that included the somatoform, dissociative, and anxiety disorders with panic attacks. Cases without a recorded spell or with only brief subjective symptoms without loss of responsiveness were excluded from the analysis. Specific attention was paid to the behaviors occurring during the first 1 to 2 minutes of verbal and motor responsiveness in the post-ictal recovery phase. Whispery verbal responses were identified by low volume, soft speech using breath instead of phonation. A feeble motor response to command involved movement of the correct limb in a manner lacking force, strength, or effectiveness and typically not completing the task. Results: Twenty five (25%) had pNES, 43 (43%) had ES, 9 (9%) had phyE, and 23 (23%) had no recorded symptoms or only brief subjective symptoms without loss of responsiveness. PNES cases consisted of 21 (84%) somatoform or dissociative disorder (all females) and 4 (16%) anxiety disorder with panic attacks (1 female). No cases of malingering or facticious disorder were diagnosed. The 25 pNES patients experienced approximately 240 events (range 1?22/patient). The initial 1 to 2 minutes of verbal or motor response in the post-ictal recovery phase were associated with whispering or feeble motor responses to command in 16 (21%) of all cases and 76% of pNES cases due to a somatoform or dissociative disorder. These signs were not seen in any of the panic disorder, phyE, or ES cases. In 132 (73%) of the seizures in patients with a somatoform or dissociative disorder, both seizures with motor manifestations as well as those with loss of responsiveness without motor manifestations, one or both of these signs were observed. The 5 pNES patients who did not display a whispery voice or feeble movements, and did not have a panic disorder, showed previously reported signs of indifference, telegraphic speech, or regression to child-like speech patterns post-ictally. Conclusions: Psychogenic seizures due to somatoform or dissociative disorders are commonly associated with the presence of a whispery voice or feeble motor responses to commands during the initiation of post-ictal recovery of responsiveness. These signs were not commonly seen after epileptic seizures. A prospective study of a larger population would be helpful to determine the predictive value of these signs. 1 William S. Corrie, and 1 Venkata V. Jakkampudi ( 1 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Individuals contemplating admission to an epilepsy monitoring unit wish an estimate of the time they should plan to stay and the likelihood that the stay will lead to a diagnosis. We sought to provide data that will aid in answering these questions. Methods: We reviewed all patients 18 years or older who were referred for diagnosis of seizures and seizure-like behavior in the last five years. From admission history and descriptions of witnesses, we defined a particular seizure pattern or behavior pattern as the event we were asked to assess. We call this the ?target event.? Most patients had all anticonvulsant medications discontinued beginning with the morning dose on the day of admission. Some did not take medications with long half-lives for a longer period before admission. Sometimes, we are asked to identify the nature of a new pattern that occurs with patients on medications, and these patients continue their home medications. On occasion, we found that the ?target event? was non-epileptic, on other occasions it was epileptic. Some patients had additional ?non-target? events. We considered an admission as ?not successful? when we did not record the event that represented the current chief complaint and/or the event that the patient's physician needed clarified. Results: We found 180 men and 352 women who were monitored as described above. We observed ?target events? in 316 of them. Duration of monitoring was variable. Thus, we report the patients having their first ?target event? in a day as a percentage of patients who entered that day without having one in an earlier session. We found that 27.8% had a ?target event? on the first day, 13% within the first six hours. The second day, 25.7% had their first event; the third day, 18.6%; the fourth day, 17.1% and 10.0%on the fifth day. Although we recorded only twenty patients yet to have an event on the sixth day, two of them had their first target event on that day. Conclusions: A single day of monitoring will only lead to a diagnosis in about one quarter of admitted adult patients. Three days of monitoring will provide at least one diagnostic event in about one half of the patients. If we recorded no ?target events? after four days of monitoring, we have a chance of recording such data in only 10% of these remaining patients. This suggests that four days of monitoring may be a point of diminishing returns. 1,2 Maria Luiza C. Dal-Cól, 2 Vera Cristina Terra-Bustamante, 2 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 José Antônio C. De Oliveira, 1,2 Poliana Bertti, 2 Américo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Norberto Garcia-Cairasco ( 1 Physiology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Psychiatry and Psychology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo - FMRP/USP, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The aim of this work was to differentiate behavioral pattern of human right (RTLE) and left (LTLE) temporal lobe seizures with a neuroethological method used and validated in our laboratory for animal models of epilepsy. Methods: We analyzed 14 seizures of 7 patients in each group. Patients were monitorized at CIREP/FMRP/USP between 1997 and 2002. Videos were observed and all patients' behaviors annotated second/second. Data were analyzed using Ethomatic software and displayed as flowcharts including frequency, duration and sequential dyads statistic interaction. (X2≥10.827; >p < 0.001). Results: Pre-ictal period of both goups were similar, with patients awakened or sleeping. In this case, awakening was the starting point of a seizure. Behaviors as ictal speech; mouth, throat and abdominal clonia; positive verbal command for speech (VC+S) and normal speech (FANO); deglutition automatism; beak and left upper limb paresis; face and eye right hand wiping occurred only in RTLE group. Left hand automatism; eye deviation to the right; right hand tonic posture and relaxing and right upper limb immobility occurred only in LTLE group. Behaviors that happened mostly in the RTLE group: positive verbal command for action (VC+A; 69,2%); left hand dystonia (81,81%); global movements (71,43%). Mostly in the LTLE group: negative verbal command (VC-; 79,41%), right hand dystonia (76,92%), hip raising (70,97%), left cephalic deviation (69,23%) and left leg automatisms (76,19%). Interaction analysis showed strong interaction (interactions shown, p < 0,001) between global tonic contraction, tremor and global clonic contraction in the LTLE group and more variable clonic and tonic postures in the RTLE, with prominence to left hemibody tonic postures or clonic movements. In the LTLE group we can verify right hand dystonia, and in the RTLE group, an interesting progression from left hand dystonia to left leg dystonia. In the post ictal period, patients from RTLE group present great interaction between CIREP equip questions (INRE) and VC+A, besides VC+S and FANO. In the LTLE group, interactions are mostly between INRE and VC-. Other interesting feature of the RTLE group is eye, mouth, nose and face wiping with the right hand. Conclusions: We confirmed various behaviors with lateralizatory value described in the literature. Also, recording of all behaviors second-by-second permits the observation of novel behaviors that may have predictive value. Interaction analysis permits the observation of possible preferential spread circuits, such as the progression of dystonia or seizure generalization. Studies with other epileptic syndroms are planned. (Supported by FAPESP, CNPq, FAEPA, PROAP-CAPES, PRONEX and FAEPA.) 1 Martin Del Campo, 1 Richard Wennberg, 2 Taufik Valiante, and 3 Richard Farb ( 1 Neurology, Krembil Neuroscience Centre, University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada ; 2 Neurosurgery ; and 3 Medical Imaging ) Rationale: In the presurgical EEG evaluation of patients with epilepsy it is often necessary to conduct intracranial recordings (IR), the purpose of which is to accurately localize the epileptogenic zone(s) when surface recordings are insufficient. Reported morbidity includes infection, cerebral edema and hemorrhage. However, the relevant literature has not emphasized the possibility of falsely localizing data produced by transient focal seizures (TFS) that may appear early in the post-implantation phase and spontaneously subside. Published reports are scant and sometimes in journals not likely to be read by epileptologists. Methods: Once aware of the possibility of transient epileptogenic foci associated with subdural electrode placement (Clin Neurophysiol 1999; 110:419?23), we examined 26 consecutive patients undergoing IR. Visual analysis of the IR was performed by MdC and/or RW. The simultaneous video data was analyzed and patients were questioned about any symptoms surrounding the times during which TFS occurred. Brain CT/MRI and direct observation at the time of surgery was carried out to look for blood or any other change associated with the presence of TFS during the IR. Results: Seventeen of the 26 patients were implanted with subdural grid and/or strip electrodes. The remainder had depth electrodes. Three patients developed TFS distant from the ultimately identified clinically relevant epileptogenic zone. Localized near the border regions of subdural grids, these TFS were very frequent at first and subsided within 3 days of implantation. Thin layers of blood were found underlying the grids on CT or at surgery. Another patient had morphologically distinct TFS recorded from a basal temporal subdural strip which subsided after evacuation of a subdural hematoma in the area. Clinically relevant seizures appeared 3 days later arising from the same region but exhibiting very different electrographic features. None of the 4 patients was symptomatic or demonstrated any behavioural changes during the TFS which lasted up to 8 minutes, preceeded by long periods of continuous rhythmic spike or sharp wave activity. Conclusions: Transient areas of focal epileptogenesis may develop as a discrete irritative phenomenon distant from areas of clinical relevance. This occurred in our patients in association with the presence of blood under subdural grids or strips. Recognition of this infrequent complication of IR will avoid mislocalization of areas to be included in surgical resection. It is also important that patients not be inappropriately denied surgery should TFS appear close to eloquent cortex or as one of several foci. The occurence of frequent focal electrographic seizures preceeded by long periods of rhythmic spiking early in the post-implantation period should alert the electroencephalographer to this phenomenon and the likely presence of subdural blood in the region. 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 1 Mark D. Holmes ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Investigators commonly identify epileptic seizures (EPI) and psychological non-epileptic events (NES) during EEG monitoring, but in most cases no reference is made to reports of ?seizures? by patients which are purely subjective (SUB) and which have neither EEG nor clinical changes. This is true even though there is the recent suggestion in the literature that SUB (Epilepsia 1998; 39:857?862) is both important and largely independent of EPI and NES. Methods: All 857 adults (age 16?76) with EEG monitoring (average of 5.83 days) during an 8.5 year period were included. All were reported to have episodes which possibly or probably represent epilepsy. Monitoring established the nature of the episodes reported, and suitability for various forms of treatment including surgery. All patients had also completed the WAIS-R, much or all of an expanded Halstead-Reitan neuropsychological battery, the MMPI, and the WPSI (Washington Psychosocial Seizure Inventory). The types of events and their frequencies among the 857 patients were as follows: EPI only 298; NES only 120; SUB only 128; EPIL+SUB 135; SUB+NES 51; EPIL+NES 13; EPIL+NES+SUB 7; no events of any type, 106. ANOVAs run across the groups with one type of event and with two types events on the variables of interest constituted the primary analyses. Results: Biodata variables evaluated included age (no differences across the groups), gender (SUB and NES were similar with about 70% female; EPI 50%; p < .001), and years of education (SUB slightly but not significantly better educated than NES and EPI). Medical history/monitoring variables included age at onset of seizures (EPI much earlier than NES and SUB which were similar; p < .001), psychiatric history (NES and SUB similar and much higher than EPI; p < .001), neurological history other than seizures (n.s.), total episodes recorded during monitoring (n.s.), and days of monitoring required (SUB > NES, EPI intermediate; p < .001). Mental ability variables showed EPI patients to be below NES and SUB in many cases, with SUB often being slightly but non-significantly better than NES. WAIS-R VIQ, PIQ, FSIQ, and overall percent of neuropsychological tests outside normal limits were all significantly different across the groups (p < .01?p < .001). Emotional adjustment variables from the MMPI showed SUB to be more depressed than NES and EPI (p < .001) but with similar scores which were higher than EPI on scales emphasizing somatic focus and unusual thought patterns (p < .01?p < .001). Psychosocial variables from the WPSI showed scores which were worse for SUB than for either NES or EPI (Family Background, p < .001; Emotional Adjustment, p < .001; Overall Psychosocial Adjustment, p < .01). Conclusions: Reports of ?seizures? during EEG monitoring without either the electrographic changes of EPI or the behavioral changes of NES need to be routinely recorded as they have substantially different characteristics. The investigation of such spells may lead to new insights in several areas. 1 Pradeep Modur, and 1 Fred Dunda ( 1 Neurology, University of Louisville Hospital, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: Short-term video-EEG monitoring (SVEM) and long-term video-EEG monitoring (LVEM) are extremely helpful in the diagnosis of intractable seizures (JNNP 2004 75:771?2; Epilepsia 2004 45:928?32; Epilepsia 2004 45:1150?3). However, there is little information regarding their usefulness when performed in conjunction with routine EEG (REEG), or serially in the same cohort of patients. Methods: Retrospective analysis of data from all the patients with intractable seizures evaluated at the University of Louisville Comprehensive Epilepsy Center over a 2-year period (October 2002?2004) was performed. Patients underwent either SVEM (4-hour duration) or LVEM (1?8 day/s duration). At the beginning of each SVEM and during the first day of each LVEM, a 20-min segment of EEG with video was acquired as baseline recording using appropriate activation procedures (hyperventilation, photic stimulation, and sleep when possible); this baseline segment was designated REEG since its protocol was similar to the routine outpatient EEG performed in our center. In those patients who underwent both SVEM and LVEM (at different dates), the baseline segment obtained at the time of SVEM was considered as REEG. In patients suspected of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures, suggestion was used for induction. Interpretation for each REEG, SVEM and LVEM was categorized into one or more of the following: partial epilepsy (PE), generalized epilepsy (GE), and nonepileptic seizures (NES); the designation, non-diagnostic (ND), was used when none of the above categories was applicable. NES comprised of psychogenic seizures and all other paroxysmal attacks. Results: There were 336 patients (223 females, 66%) in the age range of 11 to 86 years (mean 38 years). As shown in the table, the diagnostic yield was highest (78%) for LVEM, lowest for REEG (14%) and intermediate for SVEM (44%). Eighteen patients underwent LVEM after an earlier SVEM. In 15 of these, the interpretation was non-diagnostic after SVEM; in 8 of these 15 patients (53%), definitive diagnosis was established at the conclusion of LVEM, with NES being the most predominant category in 6 (40%) patients. Eight patients (5%) were considered for VNS implantation after SVEM while 37 patients (18%) were evaluated for epilepsy surgery after LVEM. Conclusions: In the evaluation of intractable seizures, routine EEG is not helpful and LVEM provides the highest diagnostic yield. With SVEM, there are 7-fold and 2.5-fold increases in the diagnostic yield of nonepileptic seizures and generalized epilepsy respectively. In a given cohort of patients, LVEM after a non-diagnostic SVEM is most likely to establish the diagnosis of nonepileptic seizures. ND, n (%) PE, n (%) GE, n (%) NES, n (%) REEG, n = 336 288 (86) 52 (16) 12 (4)? ?2 (<1)? SVEM, n = 151 84 (56) 35 (23) 21 (14) 11 (7)?? LVEM, n = 203 45 (22) 84 (41) ?9 (4)? 73 (36)? ND SVEM ? LVEM, n = 15 ?7 (47) ?1 (7)? ?1 (7)? ?6 (40)? 1 Luiz K. Ferreira, 1 Leandro R. Teles, 1 Rosa Maria F. Valerio, 1 Carmen L. Jorge, 2 Paula R. Arantes, 2 Carla R. Ono, and 1 Luiz Henrique M. Castro ( 1 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Radiology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Hypothalamic hamartoma (HH) is associated with refractory epilepsy with multiple seizure types. Few studies have addressed the ictal findings in non-gelastic seizures. Methods: Adult patients with MRI diagnosed HH and epilepsy underwent continuous video-eeg monitoring to document all seizure types and ictal SPECT. Seizures were classified acccording to clinical and ictal EEG findings. Data were correlated with MRI and ictal SPECT. Results: Six patients (ages 18?39 years; 4 men) with sessile HHs, measuring 0.178 to 9.952cm3. Four were right lateralized and two left. Four had posterior, one middle HHs. The remaining HH was unclassifiable. Three seizure types were seen: gelastic (GS), complex partial (CPS) and asymmetric tonic postural (ATPS). GS were associated with other seizure types. An individual patient could present either CPS or ATPS. GS were present in five patients. Ictal EEG in GS showed no or nonspecific changes. Four patients had ATPS. In three, ATPS were associated with GS. The other patient had isolated ATPS; ictal EEG showed diffuse attenuation or paroxysmal fast activity, followed by right frontal ictal activity in one patient. The remaing two patients had CPS with automatisms; ictal EEG showed unilateral temporal activity. In both, CPS were associated with GS. A generalized tonic-clonic seizure was seen in four patients, always preceded by another seizure type. The two smallest HH were associated with CPS and not to ATPS. The HH's side correlated with EEG lateralization during CPS. We found no correlation between the middle/posterior HH location and seizure type. Ictal SPECT was performed in five patients and showed increased flow in two (increased right temporal flow in one CPS and increased left frontal and HH flow in one GS/ATPS, concordant with hamartoma lateralization). Accepting HH intrinsic epileptogenicity, we propose that seizure progression from GS to other seizure types is due to seizure activity spread from the HH to other brain areas. Electroclinical differences between CPS and ATPS suggest a different ictal spread. CPS could result from temporal lobe involvement (?horizontal spread?) and ATPS from midline structures (?vertical spread?). Horizontal spread correlated with HH lateralization and only occured in the smallest HHs. Vertical spread was seen in the larger HH with features of frontal/midline involvement. There was no association between HH/mamillary body relationship and seizure spread pattern. Conclusions: Seizure types in HH were limited to three specific seizure types. The pattern of clinical seizure types in each patient, ictal EEG and SPECT findings suggest ictal onset in the HH, with horizontal spread in CPS (in smaller HHs) or vertical spread in ATPS (in the larger HHs). Seizure and HH lateralization was seen in both seizure types. (Supported by FAPESP (The State of S?o Paulo Research Foundation).) 1 James D. Geyer, 2 Paul R. Carney, and 3 Frank G. Gilliam ( 1 The Clinical Neurophysiology Laboratories, Southern Sleep Specialists, Tuscaloosa, AL ; 2 Department of Pediatrics, Neurology, Neuroscience, and Bioengineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Columbia Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: Dyshormia or epileptiform spikes occurring within K-complexes has been described in patients with generalized epilepsy, with one study reporting that generalized spikes occurred frequently in association with K-complexes. We report the rate and laterality of focal dyshormia in localization-related epilepsy. Methods: Pre-surgical or diagnostic long-term video-EEG results of 40 consecutive patients with epilepsy (13 patients with right temporal lobe epilepsy, 20 patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy, and 7 patients with frontal lobe epilepsy) were reviewed. Sleep samples were reviewed and the numbers of K-complexes, spikes and spikes within K-complexes were recorded. The comparison group consisted of 40 consecutive patients with non-epileptic events who were monitored with long-term video EEG. Results: Focal dyshormia occurred in 2 of 13 (15%) right temporal lobe epilepsy patients, 6 of 20 (30%) left temporal lobe patients and 3 of 7 (42%) extratemporal lobe epilepsy patients. In most patients with focal dyshormia, spikes occurring during K-complexes were relatively rare. The epileptiform activity occurred ipsilateral to the primary epileptogenic zone in each case. Not only did more patients with frontal lobe epilepsy have focal dyshormia but the percentage of K-complexes with associated focal epileptiform activity tended to be higher in these patients than in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Conclusions: We identified focal dyshormia, or spikes occurring during K-complexes, in patients with localization-related epilepsy. The sharply contoured components of K-complexes or associated sleep spindles may obscure focal spikes within K-complexes. Nevertheless, K-complexes may be associated with focal epileptiform discharges. Several authors suggested that dyshormia occurs only in patients with primary generalized epilepsy. We report focal dyshormia occurring ipsilateral to the primary epileptogenic zone, associated with localization related epilepsy. Given the predilection of the epileptiform discharges associated with K-complexes to occur ipsilateral to the side of ictal onset, the presence of focal dyshormia may assist in the identification of the primary epileptogenic zone. In general, there was a trend toward more K-complexes being associated with spikes in frontal lobe epilepsy than in temporal lobe epilepsy. Malow et al. reported the presence of sleep spindles recorded from the hippocampus and the association with epileptiform activity in one patient. The association of K-complexes with epileptiform activity may also represent an effect of temporal modulation of the typical features of stage II sleep. 1 Christine M. Heath, and 1 Charles M. Epstein ( 1 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Posterior dislocation/fracture of the humerus is a known, but rare, complication of generalized convulsions. Methods: Observational. Results: Over the course of 53 days, we observed three humeral fractures during generalized seizures in a single epilepsy monitoring unit during acute withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Patients had been on anticonvulsants for 16 to 48 years. Ages were 31 to 55 years. All were in bed during seizures, and none fell. Conclusions: This striking cluster of humeral fractures, which represents 3% of monitored patients over a short time interval, may represent in part vulnerability from long-term anticonvulsants in epileptic patients. However, it may also represent a tendency to more severe generalized convulsions during acute withdrawal. An increased incidence of fractures may be part of the additional morbidity associated with rapid anticonvulsant taper. 1 Heidi L. Henninger, and 2 Donald L. Schomer ( 1 Department of Neurology, Maine Medical Center, Portland, ME ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Beth Isreal Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Inpatient, video-EEG monitoring is often considered the ?gold standard? for evaluating patients with medically refractory epilepsy. Access to inpatient epilepsy monitoring units is improving as more non-academic centers are providing this service. There are still large numbers of patients for whom access is a major barrier. We evaluated the diagnostic utility of ambulatory, digital video-EEG monitoring in patients with refractory ?epilepsy? without access to an in-patient monitoring unit. Methods: Data from a consecutive cohort of fifty patients with a presumptive diagnosis of medically refractory epilepsy for whom ambulatory video-EG monitoring was ordered were retrospectively analyzed. A study was considered ?positive? if typical spells were recorded, epileptic or not, or if inter-ictal (ii)EEG abnormalities were identified which clarified seizure type when prior baseline EEGs were normal. ?Negative? studies were those where no spells were recorded or when the iiEEG provided no additional data compared to prior EEGs. Results: Of the 50 patients, 36 underwent testing for diagnostic purposes and 14 for presurgical screening. Mean evaluation period was 2.2 days. Mean number of seizures recorded per patient was 3. Positive diagnostic information was obtained in 60% of studies. In the diagnostic group, positive yield was 53%. The yield in the presurgical group was 78.5%. No seizures were recorded in 46% of patients (n = 23), but of these, 30% had iiEEG abnormalities that helped clarify diagnosis, and hence were considered diagnostic. Medical management was changed on the basis of the ambulatory video-EEG study in 60% of patients. Conclusions: The development of ambulatory, digital video-EEG monitoring can allow for diagnosis, seizure classification and even presurgical screening for patients without access to in-patient monitoring. In addition, the ambulatory video-EEG study may be appropriate for some patients who might find it difficult to comply with in-patient monitoring, such as pediatric patients, patients with heavy smoking, child care issues or in those where it is thought that environmental stimuli are triggers for targeted episodes. The shorter monitoring duration maybe responsible for the slightly lower rate of ?positive studies? compared to recent studies looking at this issue in in-patient monitoring (1), but the cost savings is substantial. Therefore, for many patients, ambulatory digital video-EEG monitoring is a cost-effective alternative to in-patient video-EEG studies. 1 Ghougassian D. F., et. al., Epilepsia 45(8):928?932, 2004 (Supported by SleepMed/DigiTrace (Peabody, MA 01960).) 1 Luciana M. Inuzuka, 1 Vera C.T. Bustamante, 1 Sandra S. Funayama, 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Sara R.E. Rosset, 1 Helio R. Machado, 1 Americo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Regina M.F. Fernandes ( 1 CIREP, Hospital das Clinicas de Ribeirao Preto - USP, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Ketogenic diet (KD) is a long-time known treatment, effective for seizure control, and often indicated for patients with refractory epilepsy.We carried out the present study in order to speculate how KD should be introduced, and further evaluate its effect over several electrophysiological parameters as well as its efficacy for seizure control. Methods: We evaluated prospectively clinical and neurophysiologic parameters of a group of patients submitted to KD treatment in our hospital. For this purpose, 27 patients with refractory epilepsy were selected and submitted to the classic KD. All patients had detailed previous video-EEG studies and 2 optimized anti-epileptic drugs before the beginning of KD treatment. The patients were randomly assigned to 2 groups and were submitted to two different modalities of KD introduction: First group of patients (n = 13) was submitted to KD after 24 hours of fasting. The second one was submitted to KD without fasting (n = 14). Both groups were compared by age of beginning of the DC, gender, age of epilepsy onset and introduction of KD, time to reach large urinary ketosis, types of epileptic seizures and syndromes, adverse events, efficacy of the KD for seizures control after 2, 6 and 12 months of treatment. Additionally, complete data of an historical series of 13 patients previously submitted to KD after prolonged fasting (24 to 72 hours) in our center were analyzed and included in this study. Results: There were no differences in age of KD introduction, age, gender, age of epilepsy onset, and epilepsy syndrome (focal or generalized) and time to reach strong ketosis among the three groups of patients. Also, there were no differences for seizure control after 2 or 6 months of follow-up among the three groups analyzed. After 6 months and 12 months, the KD was effective in controlling focal or generalized seizures in 46.9% and 37.5% of patients respectively. Corresponding to 25.0% (6 months) and 21.8% (12 months) of patients seizure free or improvement of seizures more than 90%. During KD period, 19 patients were submitted to video-EEG monitoring and 26.3% of them showed improvement on clinical and electroencephalographic parameters. During the introduction of the diet and along the first following days, no differences in the incidence of adverse effects were observed in regard to previous fasting or not. Conclusions: The introduction of KD without a previous fasting period was equally effective in provoking large urinary ketosis as compared to patients submitted to fasting. The incidence of adverse effects of KD was also not different between those groups. Moreover, a fasting period before KD did not affect long-term seizure control. Taken together, our results support the concept that a fasting period before the introduction of KD is not clinically relevant. 1 Soo Yeon Park, 1 Hee Hwang, 1 Jong Hee Chae, 1 Ji Eun Choi, 1 Ki Joong Kim, and 1 Yong Seung Hwang ( 1 Pediatrics, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Although atonic seizures are not uncommon in infants and children, the precise ictal semiology and EEG have not been characterized. This study was performed to demonstrate the clinical and electrophysiological characteristics of atonic seizures in infants and children. Methods: Twenty six patients (19 males and 7 females) showed atonic seizures during long-term video-EEG monitoring (VEM). The mean age on VEM was 37 months. Ictal semiology, interictal and ictal EEG, and brain imaging findings were analyzed. Results: The brain MRI findings were normal in 14 (53.8%) and abnormal in 11 patients (42.3%). Thirteen patients (50%) had atonic seizures only, while the other 13 patients (50%) showed other type of seizures in addition. The types of accompanying seizures were myoclonic seizures in 5, atypical absence seizures in 4, partial seizures in 3, tonic spasms in 2, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures in 1 patient. In the patients with atonic seizures only, 12 showed generalized epileptiform discharges as ictal rhythm such as diffuse or bilateral polyspike/spike and wave complexes (9) or diffuse theta or delta bursts (1) sometimes followed by diffuse attenuation of the background activity (2). One patient showed hemispheric polyspike wave bursts. Abnormalities in the interictal EEG were as follows; 1) 15 showed abnormal background activity, 2) interictal epileptiform discharges included generalized spike or spike wave in 9, generalized with multifocal spike in 7, focal or multifocal spike in 7. Conclusions: Fifty percent of the patients with atonic seizures experienced other types of seizures. In some cases, interictal EEG showed focal or multifocal epileptiform discharges. Therefore, VEM can be helpful for accurate diagnosis and classification of atonic seizures. 1 Mohamad Z. Koubeissi, 1 Gregory K. Bergey, 1 Christophe Jouny, and 1 Piotr Franaszczuk ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Cingulate seizures are poorly understood because their patterns of propagation may confound both the classification of clinical semiology and attempts at seizure localization. The anterior cingulate gyrus is known to have anatomic connections to temporal lobe structures, but projections from the posterior cingulate area are less established. We present a detailed analysis of seizure dynamics from intracranial recordings of repetitive seizures originating from the right posterior cingulate region and producing secondary seizure activity in the right mesial temporal structures. Methods: Depth electrode recordings were made of complex partial seizures (CPS) in a 22 year-old man with one year history of medically intractable epilepsy. His seizures were characterized by staring, automatisms, and incomprehensible speech. MRI revealed an 8.5 X 7 mm lesion of the right parietal cingulate region. PET revealed decreased activity of the right lateral temporal lobe. With scalp EEG, his CPS revealed a buildup of right temporal rhythmic spikes at 8?9 Hz. Depth electrode arrays were then placed in the right amygdala, hippocampus and cingulate lesion. Three stereotyped CPS were recorded. Ictal recordings were analyzed using the matching pursuit method which allows for detailed time-frequency decomposition of rapidly changing signals. In addition the Gabor atom density (GAD) was calculated for all seizures. GAD is a composite measure of signal complexity that has been shown to increase during epileptic seizures. Results: Each of the seizures had a stereotyped pattern of ictal dynamics. The seizures began with a right cingulate sentinel spike followed by low voltage, 40-hz activity. After 20?30 seconds, the mesial temporal depth contacts developed prominent secondary organized rhythmic activity of 6?8 Hz frequency, typical for mesial temporal lobe generators. The patient continued normal activities until the secondary right temporal involvement. GAD revealed a significant change of complexity from baseline during the earliest phase of the cingulate gamma activity and also a consistent pattern of complexity changes from both cingulate and mesial temporal contacts. Conclusions: These recurrent seizures did not produce clinical symptoms until secondary involvement of ipsilateral mesial temporal structures. This suggests connectivity between posterior cingulate regions and the temporal lobe and supports previous observations that cingulate seizures may not produce clinical symptoms without propagation to other brain regions. The dynamic analysis of the seizures revealed a stereotyped pattern of both time-frequency changes and complexity. The mesial temporal ictal evolution was a secondary pattern distinct from but always following the cingulate ictal onset. This activity can be clearly delineated by dynamical analyses. The patient is presently seizure free early after resection of this benign lesion. (Supported by NIH grant NS 33732.) 1 George R. Lee, 1 Noel P. Lim, 1 Amir Arain, and 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: We observed distinctive non-clonic unilateral rhythmic hand motions during seizures in several patients with temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing seizure monitoring. We initially considered these rhythmic hand movements to be automatisms, but noted they were contralateral to the seizure focus. Automatisms usually have no lateralizing value in temporal lobe epilepsy, but will be ipsilateral to the seizure focus if there is contralateral hand dystonic posturing. We studied these RINCH motions systematically in a consecutive series of patients. Methods: We identified thirteen patients with epilepsy who demonstrated RINCH motions and reviewed video-EEG recordings of all their seizures. We recorded time of clinical and EEG onset, time and duration of the rhythmic motions, specific character and laterality of these motions, association with other ictal signs, proportion of seizures that involved this activity, and laterality of the seizure focus. Results: RINCH motions were unilateral, rhythmic, non-clonic hand motions. The description of the movements varied between patients, but was consistent in each patient. They were either low amplitude milking, grasping, fist clenching, pill-rolling, or large amplitude opening-closing motions. The mean duration of the motions was 24 seconds with a range of 6?128 seconds. RINCH motions occurred 0?72 (mean 17.5) seconds following the onset of the electrographic seizure and 0?50 (mean 13) seconds following the onset of the clinical seizure. In the thirteen patients studied, RINCH motions were noted in 28 of 91 seizures analyzed. All patients with RINCH motions had temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). RINCH motions were followed or accompanied by posturing (dystonic or tonic) in every patient (though not in every seizure). They involved the hand contralateral to the temporal lobe of seizure onset in 12/13 patients. Only one patient demonstrated rhythmic hand movements ipsilateral to the seizure onset, and that patient had bilateral dystonic posturing consistent with contralateral seizure spread. Interestingly, RINCH motions affected the right hand in 89% (25/28) of the seizures and 10/13 patients. For each individual, the proportion of seizures with these rhythmic hand movements ranged from 6% to 100%. Based on a limited survey, we estimated that RINCH motions occur in ? 10% of patients with TLE. Conclusions: RINCH motions are a distinct ictal sign associated with posturing. They appear to be a lateralizing contralateral sign in temporal lobe epilepsy, unless bilateral dystonic posturing is present. RINCH motions are to be distinguished from automatisms, which are more likely to be ipsilateral to the seizure focus, involving the arm not affected by dystonic posturing. The mechanism of RINCH motions is unknown; evaluation of these motions in patients with implanted electrodes may help in understanding their mechanism. 1 Lawrence D. Morton, 1 Venkata V. Jakkampudi, 1 Lydia Kernitsky, 1 Alan R. Towne, and 1 William S. Corrie ( 1 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Patients with reports of ongoing seizures are often recommended for admission to an Epilepsy Monitoring Unit for Phase I evaluation to determine next most appropriate care, including possible surgical candidacy. Pressures exist from both patients and third party payers for this assessment to be carried out in the most efficient manner. Antiseizure medications are frequently withdrawn to increase the chance that sufficient events will be captured in a timely fashion. Data is limited regarding safety of this practice. Methods: All patients 18 years and older referred for seizures and seizure-like events admitted from 1/1/2000 through 12/31/2004 were reviewed. Data obtained included age, gender, admission seizure type, captured seizure type(s), including non-epileptic events, duration of admission, baseline antiseizure medications and additional medications administered (including rescue medications for acute seizures, staus epilepticus and impending status epilepticus). Patients with intracranial monitoring or history of status epilepticus were excluded from evaluation. Results: A total of 532 patients who were monitored (180 male, 352 female) had medications withdrawn or reduced. 316 patients experienced target events. 191 patients experienced seizures. A total of 29 patients received rescue therapy - 23 received lorazepam, 2 received diazepam, 2 received clonazepam, 2 received fosphenytoin. Almost all received therapy because the study was completed as an added measure was provided for safety while medications were reinstated or because, patient completed the study and was experiencing seizures above baseline frequency in a crescendo fashion. Only one patient required therapy for impending status. No one was treated for status epilepticus. One patient developed spike wave stupor which resolved spontaneously without treatment. This occurred overnight with no technologist present. Conclusions: Drug withdrawal for Phase I long term video eeg monitoring is safe. Impending status epilepticus or status epilepticus is a rare event that may be aborted with appropriate therapy. However, appropriate safeguards must be in place including intravenous access when withdrawing medication, and an ability to assess and treat rapidly. In addition, as it becomes increasingly difficult to have qualified technologists present 24 hours/day, there is a risk of nonconvulsive seizures occurring with a delay in diagnosis and hence treatment. 1 Rickey J. Reynolds, 2 Muhammad Al-Kaylani, and 3 Bassel Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ; 2 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ; and 3 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy evaluated for epilepsy surgery commonly have bilateral independent interictal epileptiform discharges (IED) during prolonged EEG monitoring. This finding raises the possibility of independent epileptogenic foci. There are no established criteria to distinguish IED associated with ictal onsets from those that are not. This study is an attempt to find neurophysiological IED indicators in the pre-surgical evaluation to help distinguish a primary focus from a mirror focus which does not generate seizures. Methods: We retrospectively studied 75 patients who underwent epilepsy surgery at Vanderbilt Medical Center for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and who demonstrated successful post-surgical outcomes defined as being seizure free for at least two years. From these 75 patients, 14 were found to have bilateral IED. Only ten patients had recordings available for review. The IED were evaluated by frequency of occurrence, amplitude, and field. A side to side comparison was made for the entire group. The IED incidence, average amplitude, maximum amplitude, average field and maximum field were compared with a two-tailed t-test for the primary epileptogenic focus and the mirror focus. Results: The mean IED incidence was higher on the epileptogenic side (ratio was 7.2 to 3; p < 0.0002). In addition, the epileptogenic side demonstrated a higher mean IED amplitude (p < 0.05) as well as maximum IED amplitude (p < 0.005). The mean IED field was not significantly different for the two sides, but the maximum field was wider on the epileptogenic side (p = 0.02). Conclusions: Even though this study had a small sample size, it demonstrated that in addition to the expected higher IED incidence on the epileptogenic side, mean and maximum IED amplitude, as well as maximum IED field were greater on the epileptogenic side. It is hopeful that this data may encourage a larger prospective study to determine more accurately the significance of these easily assessed values in the pre-surgical evaluation of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. 1 Alcibiades J. Rodriguez, and 2 Elson L. So ( 1 Sleep Disorders Center/Neurology Department-Epilepsy Division, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 2 Neurology Department-Epilepsy Division, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: Temporal lobe epilepsy is the most common type of intractable seizure disorder. Seizure semiology has been shown to improve the localization of seizures for the purpose of selecting candidates for temporal lobectomy. There are no studies to date that compare the clinical manifestations of seizures occurring during wakefulness with those of seizures arising from sleep in the same temporal lobe epilepsy patient. Methods: Inclusion study criteria were: 1) excellent outcome following left or right temporal lobectomy; 2) age of >5 years; 3) both wake and sleep seizures recorded by video-EEG; 4) recordings available for review; 5) no other seizure focus identified. Thirty patients from our epilepsy surgery database consecutively met the inclusion criteria. Video-EEG recordings of wake and sleep seizures were reviewed and compared in detail. Results: Subjects consisted of 12 males and 18 females. Nineteen had left temporal lobectomy. Average age was 29.7 years. There was no statistically significant difference in the following semiologic manifestations: early unforced head turn, unilateral automatism, contralateral immobile limb, ictal speech retention, dystonic limb, tonic limb, clonic activity, late forced head turn, ?fencing? posture, ?Figure 4? posture, second late forced head turn, asymmetric clonic ending, Todd's paresis, postictal nose wiping or postictal dysphasia. Mean seizure duration was 71.7 seconds during wakefulness vs. 88.7 seconds during sleep. The difference was not statistically significant (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Within each temporal lobe epilepsy surgery patient, there is no difference in semiology between seizures that occurred during wakefulness and seizures that occurred during sleep. Temporal lobe seizures arising from sleep has localizing value similar to that of temporal lobe seizures occurring during wake. 1 Lori A. Schuh, 1 David E. Burdette, and 1 Brian Silver ( 1 Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: The most effective methods for providing resident neuroscience instruction are not established. Performance on the Neurology Residency Inservice Training Exam (RITE) is predictive of performance on the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN) Part I, which is a measure of the quality of residency training (Goodman JC, et al. Neurology 2002; 58:1144?1146). We previously demonstrated the superiority of an education intervention consisting of resident presentations with weekly quizzing when the format was team oriented, emphasized performance in front of peers, and offered an incentive over a similar intervention with weekly written quizzes, confidential results, and no incentive (Schuh L, Burdette D. Neurology 2005; 64(S6):A31). We sought to confirm the effectiveness of this intervention in Neurophysiology. Methods: A prospective cohort of 17 residents from 2004?2005 were studied. The control group consisted of 44 resident data points from the RITE from 1998?2002. Residents were equally divided between 3 years of training. All residents from 1998?2005 received a minimum of 3 months training in EEG and EMG over 3 years of training and participated in the same lecture series. The additional educational program for the study cohort was a resident-prepared weekly lecture from a chosen text. Residents were divided into 2 teams. Weekly oral quizzes required every team member to answer in turn; the team with the highest cumulative points was given an incentive. Percent correct scores, individual year to year change and historical first year performance in Neurophysiology were compared with controls. Statistics used mean, standard deviation and t-test. Results: Results are presented in the Table. The study group demonstrated superior performance on the Neurophysiology section of the RITE compared to the historical control, with superior year to year improvement, but not superior first year resident performance. Conclusions: We confirmed the success of an educational format consisting of resident presentations with weekly quizzing when the format was team oriented, emphasized performance in front of peers, and offered an incentive. This format may be used by other residencies with a desire to improve RITE performance and document measurable learning under the core competency ?Medical Knowledge.? We plan to continue using this format in other courses and eventually analyze effect on ABPN pass rate. Neurophysiology Performance on RITE ?Control Group ?Study Group Statistical ?Significance Mean Percent Correct 49.4 ± 12.8 63.6 ± 17.0 p < 0.001 Mean Year to Year Difference ?8.5 ± 10.7 19.2 ± 14.0 p < 0.02? Mean Historical First Year Performance 41.6 ± 9.2? 44.2 ± 7.1? p = 0.7?? Means presented; statistical analysis performed with individual data points. 1 Romila Mushtaq, and 1 Linda M. Selwa ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Ictal SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) is a valuable diagnostic tool for localization of seizures in a presurgical evaluation of refractory epilepsy patients. At our institution, trained neurophysiology technicians are placed directly at the patient's bedside to monitor for seizure onset in order to obtain optimal ictal SPECT injection times. This creates additional demands on the institution for personnel and for financial resources. We proposed to analyze patients admitted for ictal SPECT to assess: 1)the success rate of obtaining an ictal SPECT study, 2)average time to record seizure that was injected for SPECT, 3)and average time of actual injection measure from seizure onset. Methods: A retrospective analysis was performed on all patients admitted for ictal SPECT scan between 2002?2004 utilizing inpatient charts, VEEG monitoring data, and monitoring reports generated by physicians. Patients are designated prior to admission to obtain an ictal SPECT. All patients have one seizure recorded prior to obtaining an ictal SPECT to characterize seizures. Day 1 was started as the time of admission until 11:59PM on that day. Patient admissions were analyzed to: 1) quantify the total number of successful ictal SPECT obtained, 2)duration to record the first seizure, 3)time between first and second seizure, 4)time to capture seizure for injection for ictal SPECT, and 5)time to actual injection of tracer from onset of seizure. Results: A total of 93 patients were admitted over 118 admissions to obtain ictal SPECT. Out of 118 admissions, only 23(19%) were unsuccessful at obtaining an ictal SPECT scan. The most common reason was failure to capture seizure during specific hours when SPECT can be performed. The average time to capture the first seizure was on day 2.1. The average time to capture seizure for injection was on day 4.5. Time to actual injection of tracer was calculated from the onset of clinical or EEG changes, whichever occurred first. Data was available in 80/97 successful injections, and the average injection time was 13 seconds. A total of 90% of injections occurred within 30 seconds of seizure onset. Conclusions: Early ictal SPECT injections minimize the problem of seizure propagation and of non-localization due to an early switch from ictal hyperperfusion to postictal hypoperfusion. At our institution, 81% of admissions for ictal SPECT were successfully performed, and 90% of these patients were injected with tracer within 30 seconds of seizure onset. We feel that this data justifies the utilization of trained neurophysiology personnel to monitor patients for seizure onset at the bedside when admitted for ictal SPECT scans. 1 Sona K. Shah, 1 Susan Hawes Ebesole, 1 James Tao, 1 Maria Baldwin, and 1 John Ebersole ( 1 Adult Epilepsy Center, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Non-invasive localization of epileptogenic foci by means of EEG dipole source modeling depends on there being a definable relationship between the cerebral source of an EEG spike or seizure potential and the scalp EEG voltage field that is used for the inverse solution. Validating this relationship can best be performed by simultaneously recording both intracranial and scalp EEG and correlating source location to scalp field. Determining scalp voltage fields correlated with selective sublobar sources would benefit from a technique to increase the ?signal? of the epileptiform activity from the ?noise,? which in this case is the ongoing EEG. Methods: We selected data from eight patients who had simultaneous EEG recordings from both an array of subdural electrodes encircling the temporal lobe and at least 24 scalp electrodes, including subtemporal locations bilaterally. Intracranial EEG spikes or seizure potentials of similar morphology from various circumscribed temporal lobe sources (base, tip, anterior infero-lateral, anterior and posterior lateral) were identified and used as a trigger to average the scalp EEG and thus enhance the signal to noise of any correlated scalp potential. Voltage topographic maps and single moving dipole models of the averaged scalp potentials were then calculated. Results: Discrete, sublobar intracranial EEG spikes and seizure potentials often did not have a scalp EEG correlate that was recognizable in ongoing EEG activity. Signal averaging usually resulted in a definable scalp voltage field for even small cortical sources. Temporal sources from different sublobar areas produced distinctive scalp voltage fields that were modeled by dipoles of different location and orientation. Dipole orientation, in particular, distinguished the various sublobar surfaces. Conclusions: There is a direct and definable relation between the location and orientation of a cortical spike or seizure source and the scalp voltage field it produces. Dipole and other source models of scalp EEG are therefore reasonable approaches to non-invasive localization of epileptogenic foci. Sublobar resolution should be possible given our findings. 1,3 C. A. Smith, 2 W. Trescher, 1 D. Boatman, 3 C. French, 3 K. Walsh, and 1 E. P. Vining ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins Medical School ; 2 Neurology, Kennedy Krieger Institute ; and 3 Neuropsychology, Mt Washington Pediatric Hospital ) Rationale: The study investigates the stability of neuropsychological test performance of children with Benign Epilepsy with Central-Temporal Spikes (BECTS). Children with BECTS generally have normal cognition; however, recent studies have demonstrated difficulties in various cognitive domains. It is unclear, however, whether the reported cognitive deficits are due to a fixed underlying cerebral dysfunction or if the deficits change over time, possibly related to fluctuations in interictal sharp activity. It was hypothesized that cognition would remain relatively stable over the course of 2 months. Methods: Four children were tested, ages 7?12, 2 girls and 2 boys. All were right handed and of average intelligence (FSIQ 97?112) with no history of developmental delays, learning or psychological disorders, and observed seizures within one month of initiating the study. Clinical criteria for the diagnosis of BECTS was met, including EEG sharp activity greater than 100 microvolts with a central or central-temporal distribution, and no evidence of focal slowing. Continuous EEG recordings were obtained on the same day as the neuropsychological evaluation. Subjects underwent assessment of attention, visual/verbal working memory, visual/verbal memory, receptive/expressive language, verbal fluency, visuospatial discrimination and motor abilities in a within subject, repeated-measures design. Subjects underwent repeat testing at 1?1:5 month intervals for 2 sessions (1 subject) or for 3 sessions (3 subjects). No changes in medication between sessions occurred. Results: Three subjects showed impaired visual attention across sessions (>2SD). Impaired performance (>2SD) was observed in immediate/delayed memory, visuospatial skills, response time, and auditory attention in select subjects and sessions. All subjects demonstrated significant variability (>1SD) across sessions in multiple cognitive domains of receptive/expressive language, visual/verbal memory, attention, response time, and executive abilities. Three subjects had central or central-temporal sharp activity on 1or more EEG recordings on the testing day. The observed variability in performance was not related to abnormal EEG activity or practice effect. One subject had normal EEG activity with impaired cognitive performance. The youngest, most recent onset subject had no overall impairment despite abnormal EEG; however, significant variability between sessions was noted. Conclusions: These preliminary results suggest that children with BECTS have significantly fluctuating cognition (>1SD difference) affecting attention, memory, visuospatial, and executive skills that can adversely affect their development and education. Even in a child who demonstrated no cognitive impairment, fluctuation of greater than 1SD was present, predicting alteration in academics, behavioral, and emotional functioning. 1 Christian A. Sonnefeld, 1 Adriana Palade, and 1 John F. Brick ( 1 Department of Neurology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV ) Rationale: Ictal aggression is extremely rare. We report the video EEG of two cases of aggressive behavior occurring during temporal lobe seizures. Methods: Case 1 involved a 20 year old man with a 3 year history of poorly controlled complex partial seizures. His MRI and neurological exam were normal. Interictal EEG revealed frequent right temporal sharp waves. Several seizures were captured on video EEG during which the patient exhibited destructive manifestations, improper language, and semi-purposefully striking and throwing objects. In one unprovoked typical event he struck a wall and attempted to strike his father. His language during this consisted of swearing and inappropriate words. Electrographically, rhythmic lateralized theta activity seen best over the anterior right temporal electrodes was present and began 7 seconds prior to the event. This progressed into higher frequency activity with superimposed spikes and poly-spikes over a 2 minute period. Case 2 involved a 39 year old man with a 4 year history of complex partial seizures and right temporal lobe tumor. Video EEG monitoring revealed the patient getting out of bed, turning toward his wife and motioning with his arms as if to shoot a bow and arrow at her while he makes a shooting noise. He then moves in towards her and appears to strangle her briefly. She cried out and he stepped back with a dazed look over his face. Electrographically, the seizure began with rhythmic theta activity over the right temporal electrodes, which gradually increased in amplitude and sharpness. Results: Both patients were amnestic of the events. In the second case the behavior was not the patient's typical event, having been induced by medication withdrawal. Conclusions: Ictal aggression is extremely rare, but does occur with temporal lobe seizures and probably can lead to injury to the patient or others. Medication withdrawal may lead to a new seizure type for an individual patient, including ictal aggressive behavior. 1 Patricia S. Sousa, 1 Katia Lin, 1 Gerardo M. Araujo Filho, 1 Americo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Elza Marcia T. Yacubian ( 1 Neurology, UNIPETE-UNIFESP-EPM Hospital S?o Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is the most common idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Patients with JME are very sensitive to precipitants factors (PF) such as sleep deprivation, excess of alcohol intake, and photic stimulation. More recently, other unusual PF, such as praxis, reading, writing, calculating, decision-making, speaking and playing musical instruments have been identified in patients with JME. Activation of specific cortical areas of the brain by cognitive stimuli is known to induce seizure in patients with JME. Objective: To examine the effects of higher mental activity in patients with JME, monitored with video-EEG during neuropsychological activation. Methods: Sixty-one patients with JME (35 females), treated and non-treated, underwent video-EEG recording during performance of neuropsychological tasks, which involved reading, speaking, writing, written and mental arithmetic calculation, and spatial construction. These tasks were compared to other activation methods during video-EEG: photic stimulation, hyperventilation, opening/closure of the eyes, and sleep after the tasks (without sleep deprivation). Results: All but 7 patients were treated with anti-epileptic drugs at the time of video-EEG examination. Overall, 18 patients (29.5%) had epileptiform discharges (ED) activation during at least one neuropsychological task. All non-treated patients had ED activation related to these tasks. Among 54 treated patients, 11 (20.4%) showed EEG activation. When photic stimulation and hyperventilation were included as activation methods, 35 patients (57.5%) showed increase of ED in EEG. Praxis was the most effective task (11 patients) followed by reading and writing (6) and mathematic calculation (4). Seizure was precipitated during the tests in 28 (45,9%) patients; the most common were myoclonus (22 patients ? 36.1%). Conclusions: Neuropsychological EEG activation is a useful instrument in the evaluation of treated and non-treated JME patients. It may confirm the existence of PFs and identify reflex seizures in these patients. (Supported by CAPES and FAPESP from Brazil and DAAD from Germany.) 1 Tiffany N. Townsend, 1 Beate Diehl, 1 Richard C. Burgess, and 1 Hans O. Lüders ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Epileptologists have observed that considerable differences exist between the time of first ictal EEG activity and the initial clinical manifestations of a seizure. Recording from intracranial electrodes currently offers us the earliest view of this ictal electrical activity. The window of time between ictal EEG and clinical onset is of interest because, if long enough, it might be used to accomplish some intervention, thereby aborting a seizure or diminishing the harm accompanying unavoidable seizures. Methods: A retrospective review was performed on all patients with focal epilepsy who underwent intracranial video-EEG monitoring (ICEEG) at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation between January 2003 and January 2005. For each patient demographic data was collected and the ICEEG seizure recordings were reviewed. To calculate the time difference from ictal EEG onset to clinical seizure onset, only those seizures with both clear focal EEG onsets as well as a clear clinical onsets were used. Clinical onsets were defined as one of the following: 1) patient self-report of an aura or pressing seizure button, 2)clear change in facial expression, 3) change in responsiveness as determined by interaction with others, 4)onset of automatisms 5)onset of motor seizure. In the group of patients who had >1 seizure that was analyzed, we then calculated the percentage of patients in that group who had a minimum time from EEG to clinical seizure onset of ≥ 10s in at least 80% of their seizures. Results: 31 patients who had a total of 268 seizures were studied. The mean age was 26.6, range [7?48]. The mean number of seizures recorded/patient was 8.65 (SD8.68), range [1?50]. The mean number of seizures/patient with both clear focal EEG onset and clear clinical onset was 3.32 (SD 2.81), range [0?9]. The mean time from ictal EEG onset to clinical seizure onset was 35.13s (SD 87.90), range [-2.14 to 432.42]. The subgroup of patients who had >1 seizure with both clear focal EEG onset and clear clinical onset consisted of 20 patients. In this group, 40% (n = 8) had a time from EEG to clinical seizure onset of ≥10s in at least 80% of their analyzed seizures. These patients represent 27% of the total study population. Conclusions: Our study shows that in about 27% of patients with focal epilepsy who undergo ICEEG there is a considerable time difference (>10s) between ictal ICEEG onset and clincal onset in at least 80% of their seizures. This information is useful in that it supports the rationale for creating EEG based interventions that may warn of, or prevent clinical seizure onset. 1 Amit Verma, and 1 Ian L. Goldsmith ( 1 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Vartiations in heart rate have been described during seizures by numerous authors. All this information is based on recorded seizures in patients with onset in either the dominant or nondominant hemisphere. No case has ever been reported, to our knowledge, where individual seizure onset in either hemisphere produced a different effect on heart rate in a single patient. We report a patient with bilateral seizure onset where seizure onset in the dominant (left) hemisphere was associated with asystole, while a tachycardia was seen during seizure onset from the nondominant (right) hemisphere. Methods: DK is a 35 year old right handed female with a history of a febrile convulsion at age 1 year. The patient began to experience seizures when she was in college. She initially reported having complex partial seizures associated with a ?bad taste in her mouth..? VideoEEG monitoring with bilateral sphenoidal electrodes performed in 1996 demonstrated seizure onset in the right temporal region. An MRI scan, however, demonstrated an enhancing lesion in the left frontal operculum. The patient underwent a partial resection of this lesion. The pathology was consistent with a ganglioglioma. The patient continued to have seizures, but then developed a second seizure type which she described as ?blackout spells.? Repeat video EEG monitoring in 2001 demonstrated two seizure types: 1) Seizures with onset in the left temporal region which were associated with bradycardia and asystole and 2) Seizures with onset in the right temporal region which were associated with slight increase in heart rate. Results: The patient subsequently underwent placement of a on-demand cardiac pacemaker to prevent episodes of asystole. She reported an elimination of her ?blackout spells? but continued to have her seizures associated with the ?bad taste in her mouth.? The patient had failed multiple antiepileptic drugs and subsequently underwent placement of a vagus nerve stimulator (VNS). This did not appreciably change her seizure frequency. Since the cardiac pacemaker had been implanted in the left infraclavicular region, the VNS was implanted in the right infraclavicular region with the VNS lead attached to the left vagus nerve. Conclusions: We believe this case is important to report for a variety of reasons. First, to our knowledge, no single case has ever been reported where independent seizure onset in both hemispheres has been associated with differential effects on heart rate. A volume of information exists about heart rate changes, but is all based on single sides of seizure onset in large cohorts of patients. This case may help provide more insite into the mechanism of Sudden Unexpected Death in patients with Epilepsy. Secondly, this also illustrates the safety of implantation of the VNS battery pack in the right infraclavicular region while stimulating the right vagus nerve. (Supported by Peter Kellaway Foundation For Research.) 1 Norman C. Wang, 1 Juan Ros-Escalante, and 2 Yu-tze Ng ( 1 Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ; and 2 Pediatric Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Scalp video-EEG (Phase I) studies often do not clearly localize seizure onsets. Depth wire recordings improve accuracy; however, invasive (Phase II) studies carry significant risks including, infection, hemorrhage and stroke. Earlier, non-invasive identification of nonsurgical candidates is warranted. One such population is patients with seizures arising from both left and right hemispheres independently. Various characteristics of this group of patients were examined to determine any noninvasive predictors of independent, bilateral onset seizures (IBOS) in cases that were subsequently confirmed on depth wire studies. Methods: All video-EEG monitoring reports from our epilepsy monitoring unit from 11/92 to 12/04 were reviewed. These included phase I and phase II monitored patients. Depth wire reports were examined for evidence of IBOS. Corresponding scalp EEG reports were obtained. Both reports for each patient were examined for the following data points: (1) ictal and interictal activity on scalp EEG recording, (2) MRI results, (3) seizure semiologies and (4) PET scans. Results: Of 2496 total reports, 299 depth wire cases were identified. Twenty-three (7.7%) of these demonstrated IBOS during Phase II and 3 cases were excluded due to lack of Phase I data. Twenty patients were reviewed in detail. During Phase I studies, 6 suggested IBOS with 5 showing interictal epileptiform discharges from both sides. None of 20 MRI reports had evidence of bilateral structural changes. PET scans revealed bilateral hypometabolism in only 2 of 15 cases. Thirteeen (65%) patients had two or more different seizure semiologies. During Phase II exams, there was a characteristic seizure semiology for each side of onset in only 2 patients. However, in 5 cases, the 2 observed semiology types did not correspond with a particular side of onset, and in 7 cases, there was only one seizure type despite varying onset lateralizations. More than 2 semiologies were seen in 6 cases. Conclusions: A surprisingly high number (7.7%) of patients undergoing depth electrode monitoring have IBOS. Certain noninvasive evidence suggests the findings of IBOS in Phase II studies. IBOS on scalp recordings were suggested in less than one-third of these patients but may indicate that depth wires are not indicated in this group. Further cohort studies would be necessary to determine the specificity to support this conclusion. Functional (PET) rather than structural (MRI) imaging appears more sensitive for these cases although this also occurred in a minority of cases (13.3%). Most patients (65%) had at least 2 different seizure semiologies with 6 patients (30%) having 3 or more semiologies and this may be predicitive of IBOS, although the seizure semiologies themselves did not consistently correlate with side of onset, varying widely between patients. Better recognition of patients with IBOS would prevent unnecessary depth electrode placements. 1,2,3 Randall J. Wright, 1,2,3 Amit Verma, 1,2,3 Ian L. Goldsmith, and 1?4 Eli M. Mizrahi ( 1 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center at The Methodist Hospital, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 3 Department of Neurophysiology, The Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX ; and 4 Section of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: A variety of techniques are utilized to localize epileptic seizure onset in patients with complex partial seizures in order to co-register non-neurophysiologic parameters with ictal EEG findings. Some techniques such as positron emission computerized tomography (SPECT) are based on detecting an increase in regional blood flow in the area of seizure onset. Very little is known about changes in larger diameter blood vessels during seizures. Such changes in cerebral blood flow were investigated utilizing ictal transcranial doppler (TCD). Methods: Transcranial doppler was recorded during EEG-video monitoring in 2 adult patients undergoing evaluation for anterior temporal lobectomy. Bilateral TCD sensors were held in place over the temporal regions utlizing a fixed halo. Standard EEG-video monitoring protocols utlizing scalp electrodes were not altered from clinical practice for this study. Results: One seizure each was recorded from each patient. For each, there was an increase in mean blood flow velocities on the side ipsilateral to the seizure onset as determined by ictal EEG. Conclusions: This preliminary data suggests that blood flow changes during TCD monitoring during complex partial seizures may correlate to the side of seizure onset. This may provide another tool in the evaluation of candidates for epilepsy surgery allowing another non-neurophysiologic method for co-registration of functional data. In addition, since TCD reflects changes in blood flow velocities in larger diameter blood vessels, this technique may provide further insight into blood flow patterns in larger blood vessels during partial seizures. (Supported in part by the Peter Kellaway Research Endowment, Baylor College of Medicine and National Service Award Training Grant T32 NS07399, National Institutes of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIH.) 1 Elza M.T. Yacubian, 1 Luis O.S.F. Caboclo, 1 Katia Lin, 1 Eliana Garzon, and 1 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology, UNIFESP/EPM, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Ictal spitting is considered to be a rare event in epileptic seizures (1, 2), being most frequently observed in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). It may represent a lateralizing sign of non-dominant temporal lobe seizures (3). Ictal spitting may, however, be observed in seizures originating in the dominant temporal lobe (1). We report three cases of right-handed patients with TLE, with ictal spitting in seizures originating in the left temporal lobe, as confirmed by video-EEG monitoring. Methods: We reviewed charts from all patients with TLE submitted to pre-surgical evaluation, which included high resolution MRI and prolonged video-EEG monitoring, during a two-year period (2003?2004). We searched for patients who presented ictal spitting during monitoring. Results: Three patients fulfilled the criteria above. All three reported spitting automatisms in the initial clinical evaluation. The first patient was a twenty-nine year-old right-handed man with seizures since the age of two. MRI showed a severely atrophic left hippocampus. During video-EEG with scalp-sphenoidal electrodes, twelve seizures were recorded, with ictal onset clearly lateralized to the right temporal lobe. In one seizure he presented ictal spitting. Due to discordance between neurophysiologic and imaging data, the patient was submitted to a new video-EEG monitoring with foramen ovale (FO) electrodes. He had three seizures with ictal onset in the contacts of the left FO electrode, which confirmed the hypothesis of false lateralization in surface EEG, and was submitted to left anterior temporal lobectomy; after 18 months of follow-up, he is seizure-free. The second patient was a nineteen year-old right-handed man with history of febrile seizures at the age of two, and onset of epileptic seizures at the age of nine. MRI revealed left hippocampal sclerosis (HS). The patient had six seizures during video-EEG monitoring, all with ictal onset over the left temporal lobe; in all seizures he had spitting automatisms. The third patient was a twenty-six year-old right handed woman with onset of epilepsy at the age of sixteen. MRI showed left HS. She had three seizures during video-EEG monitoring, with ictal onset localized over the left temporal lobe. In one of the seizures, she presented ictal spitting. Conclusions: Spitting is an uncommon automatism in temporal lobe seizures. As we have shown in this work, it should not be considered a lateralizing sign to nondominant temporal lobe, since it may occur as a clinical manifestation of seizures originating in the left temporal lobe. (Supported by FAPESP (Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo) and CAPES (Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior)/CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico).) 1 Alexei E. Yankovsky, 1 Frederick Andermann, and 1 Francois Dubeau ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Yawning, an autonomic phenomenon, has surprisingly rarely been described in association with seizures and has not previously been documented by video-EEG. Methods: We studied a 48-year-old woman with a long history of non-dominant centro-parietal seizures who developed forceful repetitive post-ictal yawning. Results: The patient began having intractable epileptic attacks at age 18. She described five types of seizures. At 30, she underwent invasive EEG studies, which showed epileptiform abnormalities over the right parietal operculum. Brain CT and MRI were normal. A right inferior parietal and posterior temporal resection did not lead to improvement. At 31, she had a second resection at the temporal edge of the previous operation again with no improvement. The tissue showed no definite abnormality. Yawning appeared late (approximately 24 years after onset of her seizures). It was repetitive, irresistible and forceful starting from 1 to 30 seconds after the seizure offset and lasting from 5 to 60 seconds. During video telemetry it was observed after most (86%) focal sensory-motor seizures and after one third of simple sensory attacks. She was alert during all yawning episodes. A video will be presented. Conclusions: Yawning may be added to the other autonomic peri-ictal symptoms such as spitting, water drinking, vomiting, urinary urgency or coughing. There is evidence suggesting that such symptoms involve primarily the nondominant hemisphere and this may be the case for yawning as well.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 385-391
TI  - Index
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119261728.index
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119261728.index
SP  - 385-391
PY  - 2005
AB  - Abstract No Abstract.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Monday, December 4, 2006 Platform Highlights Session A 3:45 p.m.–5:45 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 47
IS  - s4
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_1.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_1.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 7
PY  - 2006
AB  - 1 Kristen M. Fowler, 2 Joseph M. Massaro, 3 Cynthia L. Harden, 4 Michael R. Sperling, 5 Page B. Pennell, 1 Donald L. Schomer, 4 Joyce D. Liporace, 3 Blagovast Nikolov, 4 Gwendolyn Taylor, 5 Melanee Newman, and 1 Andrew G. Herzog ( 1 Harvard Neuroendocrine Unit, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ; 2 Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, MA ; 3 Neurology, Weill Cornell Medical School, New York, NY ; 4 Neurology, Thomas Jefferson University Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA ; and 5 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Past observations in small studies have suggested that seizures may not occur randomly in the majority of women with epilepsy. They often tend to cluster (Tauboll et al. 1991; Bauer et al. 2001; Haut S et al. 2006). Systematic investigations in large prospective investigations, however, are lacking. The purpose of this investigation was to determine the distribution of seizure occurrence in women with localization related epilepsy. Methods: The present data come from the first 100 women, aged 13?45, who were participating in the baseline phase of a multicenter investigation of supplemental progesterone therapy for the treatment of intractable seizures in women with localization related epilepsy. The women recorded seizures and menses during 3 baseline menstrual cycles. A midluteal progesterone level ≥ 5 ng/ml was used to identify ovulatory cycles. The goodness of fit of the Poisson distribution to the distribution of seizures during the combined three-cycle observation period in each woman with ≥10 seizures was tested by chi square analysis. ?2 values >5.99 identified women with nonrandom seizure distributions. Nonrandom distributions were further categorized as uniform (variance/mean < 1) or clustered (variance/mean >1). Results were similar to an alternative method of testing nonrandom distributions against a uniform distribution for each subject using the Pearson chi square statistic with categorization as clustered if p value was ≤ .05. Results: 75 women had ≥10 seizures over the 3 month observation period. Seizure distributions in these 75 women were random in 29 (38.7%). Among the remaining 46 (61.3%) who had non-random distributions, 6 (8.0%) had uniform distributions and 40 (53.3%) had clustered distributions. Clustering was significantly more pronounced among women with anovulatory cycles than among women with ovulatory cycles (variance/mean ± 2 SD = 6.1 ± 5.3 vs 2.2 ± 1.7; t-test for independent samples: p = .006). No correlation was demonstrated between clustering and age of subjects, age of epilepsy onset, duration of epilepsy, EEG laterality and individual AEDs. Conclusions: The preliminary findings of this prospective study suggest that the majority (53.3%) of women with localization related epilepsy have clustered seizure distributions and that clustering may be significantly more common with anovulatory than ovulatory cycles. (Supported by NIH RO1 NS39466.) 1 Mark Quigg, 2 Nicholas M. Barbaro, 3 Kenneth D. Laxer, 2 Marianne L. Ward, and Epilepsy Radiosurgery Study Group ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; 2 Neurological Surgery, University of California San Francisco, Charlottesville, VA ; and 3 Neurology, University California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKS) offers an alternative to open surgery for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), but its safety and efficacy are not well-established. We report the two year outcome on seizure remission and morbidities of a multicenter, prospective pilot study of GKS. Methods: Patients had unilateral MTLE as determined by standard presurgical evaluation. GKS, randomized to 20 Gy or 24 Gy comprising 5.0?7.5mL at the 50% isodose volume, was performed on mesial structures including the amygdala, hippocampus, and parahippocampal gyrus. Treatment plans were approved at a central site to insure uniformity of lesions. Patients and primary treating physicians were blinded to dose. Regular visits with seizure diaries were obtained for 3 months at presurgical baseline and postoperatively for every three months until 18m, then at 24m. Patients were counted as ?seizure-free? if no seizures (excluding auras) occurred between visits 18m-24m. Any subject that was not available for analysis was considered not seizure-free. Results: Of 40 planned enrollments, 30 qualified resulting in 13 subjects in the high dose and 17 in the low dose group. 1 patient was lost to follow-up soon after treatment. 1 subject in the low-dose group underwent standard lobectomy after not being seizure-free 24 months following treatment. 1 subject experienced papilledema that responded partially to dexamethasone and underwent temporal lobectomy. Reductions in seizure frequency were seen in the high-dose group at 3, 6, 15, 18, and 24 months and for the low-dose group at 12, 15, 18, and 24 months (Wilcoxon signed rank test). Thus, both groups showed significant reductions in seizures at approximately one year following treatment. The low-dose group showed a seizure-free response at 24 months of ? 60% and the high-dose group response was ? 80% at 24 months. Although there is a difference in the seizure-free rates for the two treatment groups, the Fisher's Exact Test using a 2-sided p value indicates that the difference in percentage seizure-free for the two groups is not statistically significant (p = 0.1194), a conclusion limited by the low power to resolve differences between treatment groups. Rates of steroid treatment, new headaches, and visual field defects did not differ between dose or seizure-outcome groups. Conclusions: GKS may offer a safe and effective alternative to standard open surgery for unilateral MTLE. High-dose GKS may be more effective than low-dose without additional morbidity. Disadvantages of GKS include latency to seizure-freedom. Further work is required to determine which patients may benefit from GKS. (Supported by NIH R01 NS039280; Elekta AB (Stockholm, Sweden).) 1 Miao Liu, and 1 Nathan B. Fountain ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: The natural history of epilepsy, and particularly the rate of seizure freedom (SF), is generally unknown except in a few specific epilepsy syndromes. The rate of SF is generally regarded to be low if patients do not respond to the first two medications. However, our experience suggests that some patients with refractory epilepsy become SF. We hypothesized that the rate of SF is higher than expected and correlated with the seizure class and epilepsy syndrome. Methods: Standardized data were prospectively collected by epileptologists from established and new patients seen in the UVA Epilepsy Clinic from April 1998 to November 2004. Data were acquired directly from patients and medical records, refined and cleaned by standardized methods and updated at each clinic visit. Analysis was limited to patients with definite epilepsy > 5 years old. Frequency of each seizure (SZ) type was collected at each visit. Patients were categorized into 14 classes by the combination of SZ types they possessed and classified by ILAE syndromes. For each subject, monthly SZ frequency of each SZ type was plotted over time for the study duration. SF was defined as a total frequency of 0 for at least 6 mo. in patients who had at least 3 SZ frequency entries. Results: From 1638 subjects, 988 had 3 or more SZ frequency entries and were followed for a mean of 37 mo. SF developed in 25% (243), established SF was present throughout the time period in 23% (231), and 52% (514) continued to have seizures. Among those SF, mean duration of follow-up was 24.5 mo. and mean duration of SF was 20.9 mo. The majority (56%) of those SF had a moderately high baseline SZ frequency of 1?15/mo, while 21% had < 1/mo and 15% had a very high SZ frequency of >15/mo. Subjects with GTCs only were most likely to have a low SZ frequency (60%) and mixed types to have a very high frequency (67%). SF rate was highest for subjects with generalized SZs (113 of 355 subjects or 31%) and lowest for mixed SZs (6 of 28 subjects or 21%). SF rate was highest for idiopathic localization-related (53%) and idiopathic generalized (38%) and lowest for other generalized epilepsies (25%). Conclusions: An overall rate of seizure freedom of 48% with 25% becoming SF during the study period is higher than generally expected for established epilepsy. Patients with only generalized SZs, or idiopathic generalized and idiopathic localization-related epilepsies are more likely to become SF but some rate of SF develops in all SZ types and syndromes. It is likely that recall bias and other factors give clinicians the impression that only few patients with epilepsy are seizure free. This demonstrates that SF is a reasonable goal in the treatment of established epilepsy, depending on the SZ type and epilepsy syndrome. (Supported by University of Virginia.) 1 Susana E. Camposano, 1 David A. Lyczkowski, 1 Sonja K. Rakowski, and 1 Elizabeth A. Thiele ( 1 Herscot Center for TSC, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Epilepsy is the most common medical manifestation of TSC, with a high incidence of infantile spasms and partial epilepsy that often is refractory to medical treatment. We describe the incidence, prevalence, management, and control of seizures in a large population of patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex. Methods: We conducted a retrospective chart review of patients meeting clinical criteria for TSC who were seen through our TSC clinical program between January 1999 and November 2005. Results: 194 patients met criteria for TSC (mean age 16 years, range 7 months to 60 years), including 91 females. 172 (88.7%) had a history of seizures (mean age 14.8 years, SD 14.8). Twenty-two (11%) patients did not have a history of seizures (mean 24.1years, SD 13.7). The latter group was significantly older (Student's t test, p < 0.005). TSC diagnosis in patients with no seizure history diagnosis may be established later in life, and they might be underrepresented in our sample. Median age at seizure onset was 6 months (range, newborn to13 years average, mean 1.8 years). Sixty-nine patients (43% of those with seizures) had a history of infantile spasms. Of those who had DNA mutational analysis and seizures (n = 122), patients with IS had a higher proportion of TSC2 mutations compared to those without IS (41/56 with IS versus 28/66 without IS, ?2 p < 0.001) Seizure control Detailed information on 158 patients was available for seizure control analysis. At the time of the last visit, 55 (35%) had been seizure free for one year or longer. 33 (21%) of them, including 4 that underwent epilepsy surgery, were on medications, with an average of 3.28 (total, current and past, range 1to 11) antiepileptic drugs (AED). They had been seizure free for an average of 6.65 years, maximum 28 years. Twenty-three were on current mono-therapy. Twenty-two patients (14%), including 4 that had seizure surgery, were off medications and had been on an average number of 2.81 AEDs (range 1 to 6). Refractory epilepsy Seventy-three patients who had been treated with 3 or more treatments, including AEDs, vagal nerve stimulator (12), ketogenic diet (10), or low glycemic index treatment (2) without reaching seizure control for one year were classified as refractory. They did not differ in mutational frequencies from 26 non-refractory patients (?2= NS), who did achieve seizure control with one or two AEDs. Fifty-nine patients were excluded from this analysis, since they had not been treated with more than 2 AEDs or other treatments and had not achieved seizure control for one year. Epilepsy surgery was performed in 27 refractory patients; 10 of them eventually became seizure free. Nineteen refractory patients became seizure free after being treated with 3 or more AEDs. Conclusions: TSC comprises a wide epilepsy spectrum, with early onset of seizures, high IS incidence and high intractabilitity rates. Nonetheless 35% achieve complete seizure control. 1 Kimford J. Meador, 2 Nancy Browning, 3 Morris J. Cohen, 4 Laura Kalayjian, 5 Joyce Liporace, 6 Page B. Pennell, 7 Michael D. Privitera, 8 Andres Kanner, and 9 Debra T. Cantrell ( 1 Neurology, University of Florida, Gaineville, FL ; 2 EMMES Corporation, Rockville, MD ; 3 Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 4 Neurology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA ; 5 Neuroscience, Riddle Health Care, Media, PA ; 6 Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ; 7 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; 8 Neurology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL ; and 9 North Texas Epilepsy Center, Irving, TX ) Rationale: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can produce behavioral teratogenesis in animals at dosages less than required to produce anatomical teratogenesis. We sought to evaluate the cognitive effects of in utero AED exposure in humans in order to determine if differences exist across commonly prescribed AEDs. Methods: The NEAD Study is an ongoing prospective multicenter observational investigation, which enrolled pregnant women with epilepsy taking monotherapy carbamazepine (CBZ), lamotrigine(LTG), phenytoin (PHT), or valproate (VPA). The long-term goal of the study is to examine children from these pregnancies at 6 years old to determine if differential neuropsychological effects exist from in utero exposure across the four most commonly employed AEDs in pregnant women. This analysis is based on currently available results at 2 years old from the Mental Scale of the Bayley Scales of Infant Development for 166 children (CBZ = 43, LTG = 57, PHT = 38, VPA = 28). The childrens' Mental Developmental Index (MDI) scores were analyzed by Analysis of Covariance controlling for maternal IQs. Results: Children exposed in utero to valproate had lower MDI scores at 2 years of age compared to the other 3 AEDs (p = .028). Follow-up pairwise comparisons revealed a significant difference for VPA-LTG (p = .018) and a trend for VPA-CBZ (p = .056). Mean (SD) MDIs were: CBZ = 94 (15), LTG = 97 (17), PHT = 90 (19), VPA = 85 (19). The percentages of children with MDI < 70 for each AED were: CBZ = 12%, LTG = 11%, PHT = 13%, VPA = 25%. The adverse effect of VPA was related to anticonvulsant blood level (p = .0001). Conclusions: These findings in conjunction with prior studies imply that in utero valproate exposure is more likely than other commonly used AEDs to impair cognitive development. Thus, valproate poses a greater risk for the unborn child for behavioral as well as anatomical teratogenesis. Additional studies are needed to confirm the present findings and to delineate the risks for other AEDs. (Supported by NIH/NINDS #2RO1 NS38455.) 1 Wayne M. Alves, 1 Yuhua Li, 2 Virinder Nohria, on behalf of the 205 Study Investigators ( 1 Research  and 2 Clinical Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Retigabine is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) that enhances the potassium currents mediated by human KCNQ2/3 and KCNQ3/5 potassium channels and exhibits potent anticonvulsant activity in a broad spectrum of epilepsy animal models. The safety and efficacy of retigabine in refractory partial-onset seizures has been previously reported [1]. This report provides a descriptive analysis evaluating the efficacy of retigabine on complex partial seizures (CPS) in patients with refractory partial-onset epilepsy. Methods: 399 patients with partial-onset seizures (age range: 16?70 years, baseline seizure frequency: ≥4 seizures/month) participated in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial. Study design included an 8-week baseline phase and 16-week double-blind treatment period (8-week forced titration and 8-week maintenance). Patients received either placebo or retigabine 600, 900, or 1200 mg/day and up to 2 approved AEDs. The primary efficacy variable was percent change from baseline in monthly total partial-seizure frequency. The percent change in monthly seizure rate for seizure types was considered as a secondary endpoint. Of 396 patients included in the efficacy analysis, 344 (86.9%) had CPS. 103 (26%) patients had simple partial seizures without secondary generalization (SPS). Results: Retigabine produced a linear dose-dependent reduction in monthly total partial-seizure frequency of 23%, 29% (p = 0.043), and 35% (p 0.001) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 13% for placebo. Looking at the most common seizure subtype, monthly CPS frequency was also significantly reduced. Median monthly CPS rate was reduced by 29.8% (p = 0.062), 26.5% (p = 0.064), and 40.0% (p = 0.002) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 14.8% for placebo. Monthly median SPS rate was reduced by 23.2% (p = 0.66), 34% (p = 0.77), and 37.6% (p = 0.15) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 15.2% for placebo. Conclusions: While retigabine is effective in reducing monthly total partial-onset seizures at 900 and 1200 mg/day, it appears to be effective in reducing the rate of complex partial seizures in all doses tested. Similar numerical trends for SPS frequency were observed but sample sizes are too small to draw a conclusion. Retigabine is currently undergoing global phase 3 studies as adjunctive treatment for partial-onset seizures in adults with refractory epilepsy. Reference 1 Porter P, Alves W, Nohria V, et al. World Congress of Neurology, 2005 (Sydney, Australia). (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International.) 1 Peter Halasz, 2 Reeta Kalviainen, 3 Maria Mazurkiewicz-Beldzinska, 4 Felix Rosenow, 5 Pamela Doty, and 5 Timothy Sullivan ( 1 Neurology, National Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology, Budapest, Hungary ; 2 Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland ; 3 Neurology, Medical University of Gdansk, Gdansk, Poland ; 4 Neurology, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany ; and 5 Clinical Development, Schwarz Biosciences, Inc., Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Lacosamide (LCM, SPM 927; formerly harkoseride) is a new chemical entity being developed as an oral and intravenous formulation for the treatment of partial-onset epilepsy. In a completed randomized, controlled trial (SP667), lacosamide (400 and 600 mg/day) reduced seizure frequency in subjects with uncontrolled partial seizures. Lacosamide has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile with low potential for pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions. Methods: SP755 was an international, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that investigated the efficacy and safety of lacosamide in subjects with uncontrolled partial seizures taking 1 to 3 concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) with or without vagus nerve stimulation. Concomitant AEDs were held stable during an 8-week baseline. Subjects (n = 485) who reported at least 8 seizures with no more than a 21-day seizure-free period were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to placebo, lacosamide 200 or 400 mg/day (given bid), respectively. Subjects were titrated over 4 weeks to the randomized dose in 100 mg/week increments. Treatment was maintained for 12 weeks, followed by blinded transition to an open-label extension trial or discontinuation. Efficacy was evaluated with continuous and categorical intent-to-treat analyses of seizure frequency (maintenance vs baseline). Safety was evaluated with adverse event (AE), ECG, vital sign, and clinical laboratory data. Results: The median percent reduction in seizure frequency was 21%, 35%, and 36% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. The lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day treatment groups were statistically significant over placebo in reducing seizure frequency from Baseline to the Maintenance Phase (p = 0.0223 and 0.0325, respectively). The 50% responder rates were 26%, 35%, and 41% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. Statistical analysis for responder rate over placebo was significant for lacosamide 400 mg/day (p = 0.0063) and approached significance for the 200 mg/day group (p = 0.0735). Rates for patient discontinuations from the trial for AEs were 6%, 6%, and 16% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. The most common (≥10% in any lacosamide group) AEs were dizziness, headache and diplopia. Conclusions: Data from this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial showed that adjunctive lacosamide (200 and 400 mg/day) produced a statistically significant reduction in partial seizures in patients with uncontrolled partial seizures and support further development of lacosamide as an antiepileptic drug. (Supported by Schwarz Biosciences, Inc.) 1 Luiz Eduardo Betting, 1 Susana Barreto Mory, 2 ?scia Lopes-Cendes, 1 Li M. Li, and 1 Fernando Cendes ( 1 Department of Neurology, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Medical Genetics, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Idiopathic generalized epilepsies (IGE) are a group of epilepsies with generalized onset of the seizures. According to the main seizure type IGE are divided in subsyndromes. Routine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is normal. The EEG supports the diagnosis when it shows the typical generalized spike and wave (GSW) discharges with normal background. Despite of these features, sometimes focal epileptiform discharges may be registered in the EEG. Some authors believe that these focalities represent fragmented GSW discharges but the pathophysiology of the focalities is still under investigation. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) is a quantitative technique of MRI analysis that allows automatic comparison between images. This method also increases the sensibility to detect small areas of structural abnormalities. The objective of this study was to investigate the focalities present on the EEG records of patients with IGE using VBM. Methods: Patients were classified according to clinical and EEG features following previous recommendations. All patients had at least one EEG with typical GSW discharges and one with clear focal epileptiform discharges. All patients were submitted to MRI evaluation in a 2T MRI scanner (Elscint, Haifa, Israel). A 3D T1 gradient echo sequence with 1 mm isotropic voxels was used for VBM analysis. Images were previously processed using the software SPM2 (http://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk). All images were submitted to spatial normalization, automatic segmentation, modulation and smoothing. The images of each patient were individually compared with a group of 47 controls (23 women, mean age 32 ± 14, range 19?67). Statistical analysis was performed searching for areas of gray matter concentration (GMC) abnormalities. The statistical level selected was a corrected p < 0.05 (false discovery rate). The localization of the focal discharges on the EEG was compared to the VBM results. Results: Twenty-two patients with IGE diagnosis were evaluated. Nine had juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), 6 patients had absence epilepsy (AE) and 7 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures on awakening (GTCS). Eight of the 9 (89%) patients with JME presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 6 of 8 patients (75%). Five of 6 (83%) patients with AE presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 3 of 5 patients (60%). Five of 7 (71%) patients with GTCS presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 2 of 5 patients (40%). Conclusions: This study supports that subtle structural abnormalities characterized mainly by increased GMC may be responsible for the focal epileptiform discharges observed in the EEG of IGE. These focalities are also probably involved in the pathophysiology of the IGE. (Supported by Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo (FAPESP) and Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES).) 1 Greg A. Worrell, 1 Matt Stead, 2 Rick Marsh, 2 Fred Meyer, 1 Greg Cascino, 1 Elson So, and 3 Brian Litt ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; 2 Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 3 Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: The range of physiologic and pathologic oscillations recorded from human brain extend well beyond what is commonly recorded with clinical acquisition systems. The range of local field activity in human epileptogenic brain extends from DC to ?700 Hz. The clinical relevance of DC fluctuations, infraslow oscillations (0.01?0.1 Hz) and ultrafast oscillations (100?700 Hz) is unclear, but recent research supports the possible role of pathological high-frequency oscillations in the genesis of focal onset seizures. Methods: We studied 10 consecutive patients undergoing presurgical evaluation with hybrid subdural and depth electrodes. The custom hybrid depth and subdural electrodes (Adtech) used for intracranial EEG recordings contain an array of microwire electrodes (40 um?60 um) and clinical macroelectrodes (1?4 mm). The EEG was acquired using a DC coupled broadband amplifier operating in parallel with the clinical EEG acquisition system. Results: The broadband recordings from all 10 patients (5 neocortical grids and 5 temporal depth electrodes) showed oscillations extending from DC to ?700Hz. Infraslow oscillations and DC fluctuations tended to be more spatially distributed, but were most prominent in the region of seizure onset. Ultrafast oscillations (>100 Hz) were most often localized, and were most prominent within the seizure onset zone. The ultrafast oscillations were most evident on the microwire electrodes, and were modulated by slow frequency oscillations. Conclusions: Human epileptogenic brain generates local field oscillations that extend over a wide dynamic range (DC-700 Hz). In addition to activity in the usual clinical bands (?0.5?100 Hz) there are DC fluctuations and shifts, infraslow frequency oscillations (?0.01?0.1 Hz), and ultrafast oscillations (>100?700 Hz) present. The presence of ultrafast oscillations are often highly localized and most evident on microwire recordings, but can be absent from large clinical macroelectrodes. This suggests that clinical macroelectrodes (2 mm) may partially average out ultrafast local field potentials. (Supported by NIH/NINDS K23NS47495?03.) 1 Wenbo Zhang, 2,5 Deanna L. Dickens, 2 Gail Risse, 1 Joel Landsteiner, 3 Mary Beth Dunn, 4 Mark V. Larkins, 3 Richard Gregory, 3 Keith Davies, 2,5 Michael D. Frost, 2,5 Patricia E. Penovich, 2 Robb Doss, 2 El-Hadi Mouderres, and 2,5 Frank J. Ritter ( 1 Magnetic Source Imaging, John Nasseff Neuroscience Institute, Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA and United Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; 2 Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA, St. Paul, MN ; 3 United Neurosurgery Associates, St. Paul, MN ; 4 Department of Neurosurgery, Regions Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; and 5 Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Magnetoencephalography (MEG)/magnetic source imaging (MSI) is the only neuroimaging method to real-time measure neuronal activity non-invasively. MSI clinical application is receiving more attention. Presurgical functional brain mapping with MSI allows guidance during surgical decision-making and decreases the invasiveness of presurgical evaluation in epilepsy, brain tumor or cerebral vascular diseases. This report describes the patients tested and confirmed by invasive brain monitoring intraoperatively or with subdural grid placement, in the MSI Lab of Minnesota Epilepsy Group, PA and United Hospital at Saint Paul, Minnesota. Methods: Twenty-nine patients experienced both functional brain mapping with MSI (148-channel Magnes 2500 WH System, 4-D Neuroimaging, San Diego, CA) and invasive brain mapping (11 patients with intra-operative mapping, 18 with subdural electrode placement) in Minnesota Epilepsy Group between Dec 2004 and June 2006. Standard MSI protocols were applied for localization of language (word recognition task for receptive language mapping), somatosensory (pneumatic piston as stimuli), and primary motor cortex (voluntary finger tapping). The magnetic sources are modeled as a single equivalent dipole. The dipoles were superimposed onto the 3-dimensional SPGR MR images (1.4 mm slice thickness, no gap). Results: In the 29 patients, there were 8 patients with language mapping, 26 with motor mapping and 16 with somatosensory mapping. In the 51 brain function components, somtosensory and motor MSI dipoles were overlapped with the locations of invasive cortical mapping or located within 1 cm range from the sites of invasive cortical mapping; language MSI dipoles were located in the sulcus overlapped by cortical mapping on surface. There were no non-predicted neurological deficits after resective surgery in 28 patients. One patient did not experience resection due to the overlapping of motor cortex and epileptogenic focus. Conclusions: Functional brain mapping with MSI is an accurate tool to localize brain function for surgical planning. Using MSI information properly may reduce the number of invasive brain mapping procedures. 1 Chad Carlson, 3 Catherine Schevon, 4 Jeff Stout, 1 Siddhartha Nadkarni, 2 Werner Doyle, 2 Howard Weiner, 1 Steven Pacia, 1,2 Orrin Devinsky, and 1 Ruben Kuzniecky ( 1 Neurology, New York University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurosurgery, New York University, New York, NY ; 3 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 4 New York MEG, New York, NY ) Rationale: The lateralization and localization of partial seizures, particularly in extratemporal epilepsy syndromes, remains difficult despite improved diagnostic imaging and electroencephalographic techniques. Magnetic source imaging (MSI) is increasingly employed in the presurgical evaluation. This study retrospectively examines the positive predictive value (PPV) of MSI for lateralizing the epileptogenic zone. Methods: All epilepsy surgical cases performed after the availability of MSI (4-D Neuroimaging, equivalent current source dipole localization) at our center were identified. 163 surgeries in 152 patients were performed. 73 patients had a diagnostic pre-operative MSI. Results were available to the epilepsy team prior to surgery; however the MSI results did not directly affect the resection. We compared MSI lateralization to the ICEEG lateralization and resection. These results were reviewed in the context of the surgical outcome for patients with more than six months of post-surgical follow-up. Results: 12 of the 73 patients did not have resections due to non-lateralizable or non-localizable seizures or because their implants were diagnostic bilateral strip surveys. 30 patients had resections limited to the temporal lobe (4 with focal tumors). 3 patients had frontal tumors. 10 patients had multi-focal lesions secondary to tuberous sclerosis complex. The MSI was normal in 9 patients. Of those with an abnormal MSI, 39 had unilateral abnormalities ipsilateral to the resection and 6 had abnormalities limited to the contralateral hemisphere. 19 patients had bilateral findings, with 10 demonstrating a clear predominance ipsilateral to the resection. 40/61 patients undergoing resections had six or more months of follow-up. The PPV for MSI lateralization is shown in the table below. Positive Predictive Value of MSI for Lateralization of Epileptic Foci Number of Patients PPV PPV + Bilateral All Patients 73 61% ?77% Engel I Outcome 25/40 77% ?91% Engel II Outcome ?5/40 75% 100% Engel III Outcome ?6/40 67% ?67% Engel IV Outcome ?4/40 75% ?75% Engel II-I VOutcomes 15/40 71% ?78% PPV = Positive Predictive Value. PPV + Bilateral = Positive Predictive Value including patients with bilateral localizations with a predominance to the side of resection. Conclusions: This retrospective analysis demonstrates both the validity of MSI for lateralizing the epileptogenic zone as well as the method's limitations; the specificity of the MSI technique for predicting the epileptogenic zone cannot exceed its ability to lateralize correctly. Thus, clinicians should interpret the MSI in the context of other presurgical studies, rather than rely on it as an independent predictor of the epileptogenic zone. (Supported by FACES.) 1 Gregory L. Barkley, 1 Brien Smith, 2 Gregory Bergey, 3 Gregory Worrell, 4 David Chabolla, 5 Joeseph Drazkowski, 6 Douglas Labar, 7 Robert Duckrow, 8 Anthony Murro, 9 Michael Smith, 10 Ryder Gwinn, 11 Bruce Fisch, 12 Lawrence Hirsch, and 13 Martha Morrell ( 1 Department of Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI ; 2 Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD ; 3 Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; 4 Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL ; 5 Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, AZ ; 6 Weill Medical College of Cornell University, NYC, NY ; 7 Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 8 Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 9 Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL ; 10 Swedish Neuroscience Inst., Seattle, WA ; 11 Lousiana State University, New Orleans, LA ; 12 Columbia University, NYC, NY ; and 13 NeuroPace, Inc., Mountain View, CA ,) Rationale: A multi-center feasibility investigation assessed safety and possible efficacy of the cranially based implantable, programmable Responsive Neurostimulator (RNS?) system. Methods: Subjects were 18?65 years with intractable partial-onset seizures and localized epileptogenic onset region(s). Subjects with ≥12 simple partial (SP) sensory or motor seizures, complex partial seizures (CPS) or generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures over an 84-day baseline period qualified for implant. The RNS was connected to up to 2 leads (subdural and/or depth), which were targeted to the seizure focus. Adverse events (AEs) were monitored throughout the trial. Efficacy was assessed during two time periods, the 84-day period beginning 28 days post-implant (primary) and the most recent 84 days for which a subject could have received therapy (secondary). Results: During the primary evaluation period, the responder rate (≥50% reduction in seizures) in 50 subjects (excluding 1 subject with no disabling seizures at baseline and 14 subjects blinded off) was 32% for CPS (n = 44), 63% for GTC (n = 16), and 26% (n = 50) for total disabling seizures (TDS) (SP motor, CPS and GTC). The median percentage reduction in seizure frequency was: CPS 27%, GTC 59% and TDS 29%; seizure reduction was significant for CPS (p < 0.05) and TDS (p < 0.001) (Wilcoxon signed-rank test). For the secondary evaluation period, as of 4/28/06, the responder rate for 62 subjects (excluding 1 subject with no disabling seizures at baseline and 2 subjects previously blinded off with fewer than 84-days of therapy on) was 40% for CPS (n = 52), 55% for GTC (n = 22), and 41% for TDS (n = 61). The median percentage reduction was: CPS 34%, GTC 66% and TDS 35%, and seizure reduction was significant for CPS (p < 0.05), GTC (p < 0.005), and TDS (p < 0.001). In 65 implanted subjects (including 17 device replacements) representing 65 patient years, there were no serious unanticipated device-related AEs, and responsive neurostimulation was well tolerated. Conclusions: An investigation of the RNS? system demonstrated safety and a sustained reduction in CPS, GTC and TDS events. Preliminary results indicated that the RNS? system may provide a safe and effective treatment for adults with intractable partial-onset epilepsy. (Supported by NeuroPace, Inc.) 1 Angela Y. Rackley, 1 Jerzy P. Szaflarski, 1 Daniel Woo, 1 Rosie Miller, 1 Jane Khoury, 1 Dawn O. Kleindorfer, 1 Joseph P. Broderick, 2 William Cahill, and 1 Brett M. Kissela ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Department of Veteran's Affairs, Fresno, CA ) Rationale: Stroke-related seizures are frequently defined as early (within 2 weeks after stroke) and late. The incidence of early and late seizures is relatively well established. The incidence of acute seizures (≤24 hours after stroke) is unknown. In this population-based study, we aimed to establish the incidence of acute post-stroke seizures in a biracial cohort. We also sought to determine if there were any differences between race, stroke subtype, and stroke localization. Methods: All stroke cases between 7/93?6/94 within the population of the Greater Cincinnati metropolitan region were identified by review of all primary and secondary stroke diagnoses (ICD-9 codes 430?436) from 19 local acute-care hospitals, outpatient clinics, autopsy cases, and death certificates. Clinical and demographic data was collected by study nurses and subsequently reviewed by study physicians. The presence of seizures in the 24 hours after stroke symptom onset was obtained through additional record review; patients with a prior history of seizure were excluded. All available neuroimaging performed at the time of stroke was reviewed by study physicians. Variable Seizure No Seizure p-value Age (years) 67.0 ± 20.3 71.6 ± 13.0 0.01? Gender (male) 53 (43.4%) 1241 (44.2%) 0.88? Race (black) 18 (14.8%) ?473 (16.8%) 0.55? Hypertension 70 (57.4%) 1744 (62.1%) 0.30? Heart Disease 48 (39.3%) 1149 (40.9%) 0.73? Prior Stroke 31 (25.4%) ?652 (23.2%) 0.57? LVH on admission EKG 16 (13.1%) ?349 (12.4%) 0.82? Initial GCS 12 (3, 14) ??15 (14, 15) <0.0001 Initial Rankin ?0 (0, 3) ???0 (0, 3) 0.54? 30-day Mortality 35 (28.7%) ?361 (12.8%) <0.0001 Hemorrhagic Stroke 39 (32.0%) ?295 (10.5%) <0.0001 Data analyzed using logistic regression model Results: We identified 2932 strokes who had no prior history of seizures, of which 122 (4.2%) had seizures within the first 24 hours of stroke onset. Of ICH/SAH patients, 11.4% had a seizure within the first 24 hours of stroke onset (p ≤ 0.0001 vs. all stroke). In ischemic stroke, we observed a trend towards seizures being more common with cardioembolic stroke vs. all other ischemic stroke subtypes (4.5% vs. 2.9%, p = 0.07). There was a higher mortality rate in patients who developed stroke-related acute seizures. See table for additional detail. Conclusions: The overall rate of epileptic seizures within the first 24 hours of stroke onset is 4.2%. Risk factors for developing seizure activity include younger age, lower initial GCS score, and hemorrhagic stroke (ICH/SAH). Patients with stroke-related acute seizures have a higher 30-day mortality than patients without seizures. This may be related to a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke in this group. 1,2,3 N. Elshorst, 2 F.G. Woermann, 2 T. May, 2 H. Freitag, 2 S. Horstmann, 2 R. Schulz, 3 M.P. McAndrews, and 2,3 B. Pohlmann-Eden ( 1 Universitaetsklinikum Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany ; 2 Mara Hospital, Bethel Epilepsy Centre Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 3 Krembil Neuroscience Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada ) Rationale: To identify the best predictors of postoperative verbal memory decline in patients undergoing left temporal lobe excisions for epilepsy. Methods: A retrospective analysis was carried out using data from 59 patients with left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) who underwent en-bloc resection. Memory was measured by a standard word list-learning task (z-score for total number of words over 5 trials) administered before and after surgery. A new rating was devised for the MR images, to characterize the extent of hippocampal damage. Atrophy and signal change of the hippocampus were examined separately. Both changes were assessed on a scale: 0 = no change 1 = moderate atrophy/signal change, 2 = severe atrophy/signal change. The average of these two factors was calculated to classify the degree (range 0 to 2) of mesiotemporal sclerosis (MTS). The Wada results included number of correctly identified items after ipsilateral injection and contralateral injection (pass/fail boundary: 67%), as well as an asymmetry score. In various multiple regression analyses, Wada test scores (injection ipsilateral, injection contralateral, asymmetry score), neuropsychological test scores before surgery, MRI scores (atrophy, increased signal change, MTS) and further risk factors such as age of onset were entered as the independent variables. The difference in the verbal memory test was the dependent variable. Results: After surgery, 35% of the patients showed a memory decline indicated by a z-score loss of more than one point. The regression analyses revealed that the pre-operative memory test score was the strongest predictor of memory change (p < 0.05, adjusted R Square = 0.341). Higher preoperative performance in the verbal memory task was associated with a greater risk of verbal memory decline after surgery. The second significant predictor was the MTS classification (p < 0.05, adjusted R Square = 0.428). Greater damage to the hippocampus was associated with less decline following surgery. None of the other variables, including the Wada results and other risk factors, were significant predictors of memory outcome. Conclusions: The Wada test results did add to the prediction of verbal memory decline in this sample of patients in whom temporal lobe resection was considered safe with regard to the risk of amnesia (i.e., adequate memory functioning following ipsilesional injection compared to contralesional injection). Thus, the clinical data obtained routinely before surgery seems to be sufficient to predict risk of memory decline in the majority of TLE patients. However, our findings do not refute the usefulness of the Wada test for excluding from surgery those patients who are at risk for amnesia after temporal lobe resection. 1 Cigdem I. Akman, 1 Aviva Olgavsky, 1 Marla Hamberger, 1 Ronald Tikofsky, and 1 Frank Gilliam ( 1 Department of Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University, College of Physicians  2 Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ; and 3 Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: We investigated longitudinal changes in the volumes and shapes of the hippocampi of non-surgical and post-surgical patients with unilateral mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: Sixteen non-surgical patients had a repeat brain MRI with a mean interval of 3.7 years and 16 post-surgical patients had two postoperative MRI scans with a mean interval of 4.8 years. We measured ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal volumes (IHV and CHV) in the non-surgical group and CHV in the postsurgical group. Hippocampal shape deformity analysis (HSDA) was also performed in each group. Results: In non-surgical patients, both IHV and CHV decreased significantly between the two scans (7.3 ± 5.7%, p < 0.001 and 2.5 ± 2.6%, p = 0.002). Moreover, IHV percent decreases were significantly correlated with the number of total seizures between the two scans (r = 0.57, p = 0.02). HSDA also showed inward deformities in both ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi in non-surgical patients (uncorrected p < 0.05). In post-surgical patients, mean CHV (2481.1 ± 364.9 mm3) for first postsurgical scans was not significantly different from mean CHV (2480.4 ± 316.1 mm3) for second scans. Total seizure numbers during the year before surgery were negatively correlated with CHV losses between the two postsurgical scans (r =?0.72, p = 0.002). HSDA of contralateral hippocampi between the two postsurgical scans mainly showed outward deformities in head, body and tail but small inward deformities in tail. Conclusions: These results suggest that recurrent seizures induce progressive atrophy in both ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi, but that a seizure-free state after the resection of an epileptic focus prevents longitudinal volume loss of the contralateral hippocampus and may facilitate a partial volume increase.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Platform Session B: Clinical Neurophysiology/Clinical Epilepsy  3:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
SP  - 264
EP  - 268
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Jose F. Tellez-Zenteno, 1 Scott B. Patten, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Studies indicate that up to 50% of patients with epilepsy have mental health disorders, with mood, anxiety, and psychotic disturbances being the most common. However, the prevalence of psychiatric illnesses in persons with epilepsy in the general population varies, owing to differences in methods, population, case ascertainment, and heterogeneity of epilepsy syndromes. We assessed the prevalence of self-reported, physician diagnosed mental health conditions associated with epilepsy in a large Canadian population health survey Methods: The Canadian Community Health Survey (CHS, N = 36,984) used probabilistic sampling to explore numerous aspects of mental health in the entire Canadian population, of whom 253 subjects had epilepsy. With sampling weights, the prevalence of epilepsy was 0.6%. Depression was ascertained with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (Short Form). Other valid scales various aspects of psychiatric comorbidity. The prevalence of drug and alcohol use, and abnormal ideation were ascertained through personal interviews. We explored age specific prevalence of mental health problems in epilepsy Results: The lifetime prevalence of depression was 22.2% (95%CI 14.0?30.4%) compared with 12.2% in the general population. The prevalence of depression in people with epilepsy was higher than in the general population in younger, but not older (>64 years) age groups. There was a marked effect of age on the prevalence of major depression (higher in younger individuals). The prevalence of social phobia was 15.8% (8.4?23.2) in people with epilepsy and 8.1% (7.6?8.5) in the general population. The 12-month prevalence of drug or alcohol dependence was not higher in people with epilepsy (3.0%) than in the general population (3.1%). Lifetime suicidal ideation was higher in patients with epilepsy 25.0% (95% CI 16.6?33.3) than in the general population 13.3% (95% CI 12.8?13.9) Conclusions: The prevalence of depression was considerable higher in younger people with epilepsy than in the general population. Social phobia and low indices of well being were more prevalent in epilepsy. We corroborated a high prevalence of suicidal ideation was in epilepsy patients. In contrast to other reports, we did not find a higher prevalence of alcohol and drug dependence in people with epilepsy. The complete analysis of mental health comorbidity will be presented 1 Miranda Geelhoed, 1 Anne Olde Boerrigter, 2 Peter R. Camfield, 1 Ada T. Geerts, 1 Willem Arts, 2 Bruce M. Smith, and 2 Carol S. Camfield ( 1 Department of Pediatric Neurology, Erasmus MC, Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, Netherlands ; and 2 Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University and IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS, Canada ) Rationale: About 50?60% of children with epilepsy eventually outgrow their seizure disorder. A number of predictive factors have been statistically associated with remission but it is unclear how accurate these factors are when applied to an individual child. Two large prospective cohort studies of childhood epilepsy (Nova Scotia and the Netherlands) each developed a statistical model to predict long-term outcome. We evaluated the accuracy of a prognostic model based on the two studies combined. Methods: A wealth of clinical and EEG variables were available for patients in both cohort studies. Data analyses with classification tree models and stepwise logistic regression produced predictive models for the combined dataset and the two separate cohorts. The resulting models were then externally validated on the opposite cohort. Remission was defined as no longer receiving daily medication for any length of time at the end of follow-up. Results: The combined cohorts yielded 1055 evaluable patients. At the end of follow up (≥5 years in >96%), 622 (59%) were in remission. Using the combined data, the classification tree model and the logistic regression model predicted the outcome (remission or no remission) correctly in approximately 70% (sensitivity ?72%, specificity?65%, positive predictive value?75%, negative predictive value ? 62%). The classification tree model split the data on epilepsy syndrome and age at first seizure. Independent statistically significant predictors in the logistic regression model were: seizure number before treatment, age at first seizure, absence seizures, epilepsy types of symptomatic generalized and symptomatic partial, pre-existing neurological signs, intelligence and the combination of febrile seizures and cryptogenic partial epilepsy. When the prediction models from each cohort were cross-validated on the opposite cohort, the outcome was predicted slightly less accurately than the model from the combined data. Conclusions: Based on currently available clinical and EEG variables, predicting the outcome of childhood epilepsy is difficult and appears to be incorrect in about one of every three patients. Predictions schemes are statistically robust but clinically relatively inaccurate. We suggest that clinicians should be cautious in applying prediction models when developing management strategies for individual children with epilepsy. 1 A. T. Berg, 2 B. G. Vickrey, 3 S. Smith, 3 F. M. Testa, 4 S. Shinnar, 3 S. R. Levy, 5 F. DiMario, and 3 B. Beckerman ( 1 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ; 2 Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Montefiore Hospital, Bronx, NY ; and 5 Neurology, CCMC, Hartford, CT ) Rationale: It is typically assumed that intractablility is evident soon after the onset of epilepsy. Retrospective histories from surgical patients, however, suggest that intractable seizures may not be evident for many years, particularly in partial epilepsy of childhood onset. Methods: In a community-based study of 613 children in Connecticut with newly diagnosed epilepsy (1993?97) prospectively followed a median of 9 years, the timing of the appearance of intractable epilepsy from date of initial diagnosis was determined. Two definitions for intractable epilepsy were used: 1) ?Strict:? 2 AED failures, ≥1 seizure/month for 18 months; 2) ?Loose:? 2 AED failures. Differences in the timing of the appearance of intractability were examined as a function of type of epilepsy syndrome. Results: Eighty-two children met the strict criteria for intractability: 38/294 (13%) of those with cryptogenic or symptomatic partial epilepsy (C/S-PE), 35/67 (52%) of those with an epileptic encephalopathy (EE) and 9/241 (4%) of those with idiopathic or other forms of epilepsy (p < 0.0001). Eleven children followed<18 months were not assigned an outcome. Twenty-five (30%) of the 82 intractable cases took >3 years to meet the strict criteria for intractability. The primary interest was in comparing EE and C/S-PE groups. Five of 35 (14%) intractable cases in the EE group versus 17/38 (45%) in the C/S-PE group met criteria at >3 years (p = 0.005). Loose criteria for intractability (2 AED failures) were met by 135 children. Of these, 32 (24%) met criteria >3 years after diagnosis: 1/46 in the EE group versus 25/69 in the C/S-PE group (p < 0.0001). In the C/S-PE group, 18/25 (72%) 25 who failed a second drug >3 years after diagnosis had experienced a 1+ year remission before the second drug failure. Conclusions: Poor seizure outcome is generally evident from the outset in the epileptic encephalopathies such as West, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. By contrast, the appearance of intractability may be delayed in cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy. Retrospective data1 suggest that with a median follow-up of 9 years, roughly a third to half the intractable cases that might occur in the cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy group have yet to declare themselves. Only continued prospective study in the current cohort, however, will reveal the eventual true burden of intractability and its time course. REFERENCE 1.?Berg AT, et al How long does it take for partial epilepsy to become intractable Neurology, 2003;60: 186?190. (Supported by NIH RO1-NS31146.) 1 Christina A. Palmese, 1 Marla J. Hamberger, 1 David Weintraub, 2 Nikolaos Scarmeas, 1 Hyunmi Choi, and 1 Lawrence J. Hirsch ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Taub Institute, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: It is well established that individuals with epilepsy frequently report memory problems and show deficits on objective memory measures. In recent years, cholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil have been shown to improve memory or delay memory decline in patients with other neurological disorders (e.g., dementia, multiple sclerosis). The purpose of this double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study was to determine whether donepezil would improve memory or other cognitive functions in epilepsy patients. Methods: Twenty-three epilepsy patients with subjective memory complaints (9 simple partial, 14 complex partial or generalized; mean age: 41 SD = 9.25; 16 males, 7 females) were tested at baseline, after 3 months on donepezil, and after 3 months on placebo. Patients were randomized into two treatment groups receiving 3 months of donepezil followed by 3 months of a placebo, or vice versa. Donepezil was started at a dose of 5mg/day for 4 weeks and increased to 10mg/day for the remaining 8 weeks. Functions tested included verbal memory (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test, Medical College of Georgia (?MCG?) story memory), visual memory (MCG Figure Memory Test), Attention (Continuous Attention Test, Stroop Test), visuomotor speed (Symbol Digit Coding), and fine motor speed and dexterity (Grooved Pegboard). Subjective memory complaints, quality of life and mood were assessed with the QOLIE-31 and Profile of Mood Scale (POMS). Change scores were calculated comparing baseline with both placebo and donepezil, and these difference scores were compared via paired sample t-tests. Results: While on donepezil, patients exhibited significantly stronger performance on MCG immediate story recall (donepezil mean change: 11.08 (SD = 11.69), placebo mean change: 6.78 (SD = 10.99), p = .04). However, they also showed poorer Stroop performance (p = .02), reported lower energy and ?vigor? (p = .01), and indicated poorer ?quality of life? (p = .01) on donepezil compared to placebo. Across donepezil and placebo treatment periods, there were no significant changes in subjective memory report or in number of side effects reported while patients were on donepezil versus placebo. There were also no significant differences in seizure frequency (p = .55). No patient reported any adverse event. Conclusions: Although patients exhibited improvement in immediate memory while on donepezil, they also exhibited worsening in attention, energy and quality of life. These results suggest that donepezil does not provide significant benefit for patients with epilepsy and subjective memory impairment, though this does not rule out possible benefit in individuals. There was no effect on seizure frequency in this study. (Supported by Pfizer Inc.) 1 Alison M. Pack, 2 Martha J. Morrell, 1 Alison Randall, 1 Silvia Done, 1 Edith Flaster, and 3 Elizabeth Shane ( 1 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA ; and 3 Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: We previously reported significant bone loss at the femoral neck of the hip in women with epilepsy receiving phenytoin (PHT) when followed for 1 year longitudinally. It has been postulated that adverse effects on bone secondary to PHT treatment are a result of enzyme inducing increased metabolism of vitamin D. We hypothesized that concentrations of vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment would be significantly lower in women treated with PHT than other AEDs including carbamazepine (CBZ), valproate (VPA), and lamotrigine (LTG). Methods: Women with epilepsy aged 18?40 receiving AED monotherapy were recruited. AEDs studied were PHT, CBZ, VPA and LTG. Subjects had baseline bone mineral density (BMD) studies as assessed by DXA and serologic measurements of calcium and vitamin D metabolites (25, hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D). Subjects were followed for 1 year and repeat studies were obtained. Correlation between change in BMD and calcium and vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment was evaluated. Results: Data was obtained from 66 women. There were 7 women receiving PHT, 27 receiving CBZ, 13 receiving VPA, and 19 receiving LTG. Serum calcium levels did not change significantly after 1 year of treatment in all AED treated groups. As we previously reported, baseline calcium levels were significantly lower in women treated with PHT, CBZ, and VPA compared to those treated with LTG. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations also did not change significantly in any of the AED treated groups. As we previously reported, there was no significant difference among baseline levels of 25, hydroxyvitamin D among the AED treated groups. Serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations were significantly higher after 1 year of treatment in LTG treated women (32.80 ? 39.55 pg/ml; p = 0.0067). Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT (31.10 ? 24.70 pg/ml). BMD loss at the femoral neck of the hip did not correlate with changes in calcium or vitamin D metabolite concentrations. Conclusions: Calcium and 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations did not change significantly in women treated with PHT, CBZ, VPA, and LTG and followed longitudinally for 1 year. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D is the most commonly used index of vitamin D status. Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT for 1 year. BMD loss did not correlate with changes in either calcium or vitamin D metabolites. The lack of significance of these findings may in part be explained by the small sample size of the PHT treated group. However, they do suggest that previously reported bone loss in PHT treated women may not be secondary to effects on vitamin D metabolism. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Douglas R. Nordli, 2 Solomon L. Moshé, 3 L. Matthew Frank, 4 John M. Pellock, 5 Darrell V. Lewis, 4 Anthony Marmarou, 6 Dale C. Hesdorffer, 2 Shlomo Shinnar, and 1?5 FEBSTAT Study Team ( 1 Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL ; 2 Montefiore, Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; 3 Children's Hospital of The King's Daughter, Norfolk, VA ; 4 Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 5 Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC ; and 6 Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: To study the role of acute EEG studies in children with febrile status epilepticus in predicting acute MRI abnormalities and later development of epilepsy and, more specifically, of subsequent mesial temporal sclerosis and temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: As part of the multi-institutional FEBSTAT study, neurological examinations, MRIs with particualr attention to the hippocampus, and EEGs were performed within 72 hours of febrile status epilepticus in children five years of age or younger. EEGs are read by two independent readers, blinded to clinical histories, and a consensus is reached. The primary outcome measure of the ongoing FEBSTAT study is the development of MTS, clinical epilepsy, or both. The study also seeks to determine if initial imaging and EEG studies can predict outcome. Results: As of April, 2005, 75 subjects have been enrolled. Consensus readings have been performed on the first 46 EEGs. Of these, 11 (24%) showed one or more abnormality. Specific findings include the following. Nine EEGs demonstrated slowing or attenuation, which was localized to the temporal lobe in 8 cases (17%). In one circumstance the attenuation involved the entire hemisphere. Two other EEGs showed diffuse slowing only. Spikes were the exclusive abnormality in only two tracings (frontal in one, and posterior temporal in the other). Temporal lobe spikes were seen along with temporal lobe slowing in only two cases. Conclusions: Focal temporal slowing, attenuation, or both is seen in 17% of children with febrile status epilepticus indicating temporal lobe dysfunction in this group. Focal epileptiform discharges were half as common. Further analysis will determine whether the acute EEG abnormalities correlate with hippocampal T2 signal abnormalities that are being seen in a significant number of children in this cohort. Additionally, the design of the study will allow us to look at the evolution of the EEG in those children at high risk for the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by NINDS NS43209: Consequences of Prolonged Febrile Seizures in Childhood.) 1 Stephan U. Schuele, 1 Adriana C. Bermeo, 1 Richard C. Burgess, 1 Dudley Dinner, and 1 Nancy Foldvary ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Ictal asystole with focal epilepsy is a rare but potentially life-threatening event and is a likely contributor to sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). Risk factors allowing early detection and intervention are unknown and ictal asystole remains an incidental finding in large monitoring populations. While there have been some inconsistent correlations (such as more frequent accompaniment to left temporal lobe seizures) semiologic characteristics associated with ictal asystole have not been described, and may be helpful in screening for high risk patients. Methods: Electronic database search of all patients undergoing longterm Video-EEG monitoring between 1994 and 2005 with episodes of aystole during simultaneous ECG acquisition. Patients with asystole during non-epileptic events (e.g. syncopal events) were excluded. Results: Ictal asystole was found in seven out of 5977 patients (0.12%) and occured in 12 out of 42 (29%) of their recorded events. Two of the patients were male and five female, mean age was 28 years (range 2 to 54 years). Asystole occured on average 41 seconds (s) after EEG onset (range 3?95 s) and was in all cases preceded by sinus bradycardia. Duration of asystole averaged 17 s (range 4?33 s). Sinus rhythm recurred spontaneously in all patients without requiring cardiac resusciation. Temporal lobe epilepsy was diagnosed in five patients, in three on the right, in one on the left and in one bilateral. Asystole in this group lasted between 4.5s and 33 s. In all five patients, episodes of sudden unresponsiveness associated with manual or oral automatism were reported as typical events. During the Video-EEG monitoring in four of these five patients, the habitual semiology was followed by a pronounced sudden loss of tone and body posture coinciding with the asystole. In the one patient without noticeable loss of tone, a generalized tonic seizure lasting more than 20s occured within five seconds after onset of the asystole. All five patients underwent pacemaker implantation. Two patients had extratemporal lobe epilepsy. One suffered from axial tonic seizures associated with a regional EEG seizure pattern over the vertex. The other one had episodes of unresponsiveness and staring associated with a left hemispheric focal epilepsy. Asystole lasted between 4s and 7s and no loss of tone was noted during Video-EEG monitoring. Conclusions: Ictal aystole is a rare but potentially life-threatening event. It is most commonly seen in patients with right or left temporal lobe epilepsy. Although a history of atonia and falls is often not obtained, loss of tone and posture can frequently be seen during Video-EEG-monitoring. Drop attacks at clinical onset have been reported in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, however a delayed sudden loss of tone is distinctly uncommon and may be revealed by a detailed history. Further cardiac monitoring in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and delayed atonia or drop attacks might be warranted. 1 Gregory D. Cascino, 1 Edward M. Manno, 2 Eric A. Pfeifer, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Eelco F.M. Wijdicks ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 2 Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: To evaluate the incidence and significance of cardiac contraction band necrosis (CBN) in patients who die during status epilepticus (SE). CBN has been observed in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and other life-threatening neurological emergencies. Massive catecholamine release may be the mechanism of CBN and cardiac arrhythmias that occur in these individuals. Methods: We retrospectively evaluated 28 patients who were derived from 54 consecutive patients with SE who underwent an autopsy between January 1975 and December 2003. The medical and pathological records were reviewed in all patients. Twenty six individuals were excluded because of an inability to confirm the diagnosis of SE or unavailability of cardiac anatomical specimens for examination. The 28 patients were divided into two groups: Group I- Died during refractory SE (n = 11), Group II- Died remote from SE (n = 17). The cardiac pathology in the two groups was compared to 22 randomly selected individuals (control group) who died without a known history of seizures. Nonconvulsive SE was confirmed by EEG studies. One investigator (EP) blinded to the clinical history and previous pathology reports reviewed the cardiac pathology slides for CBN. Results: There were no significant differences in age, gender or history of heart disease between the three patient groups. Nine of the Group I patients had generalized convulsive SE and two patients had nonconvulsive SE. Eight of the 11 patients in Group I had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p < 0.01, Fisher's exact test). Three of 17 patients in Group II had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p = 1.0, Fisher's exact test). CBN occurred more frequently in Group I patients than Group II patients (p < .01, Fisher's exact test). Conclusions: Cardiac CBN was identified in most patients in this series who died during an episode of SE. This specific anatomical pathology was uncommon in patients with a remote history of SE or an age-matched control group. This study provides compelling evidence that cardiac CBN may be a potential pathophysiology for cardiac decompensation and death in individuals with SE or seizure activity. (Supported by Mayo Foundation.) 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Francois Dubeau, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Seizures recorded with subdural grids have demonstrated high frequency activities up to 130Hz in contacts close to the seizure focus. We report localized changes in high frequency activity during seizures in patients with temporal and extra-temporal epilepsy implanted with depth macroelectrodes. Methods: Intracranial EEGs were obtained from stereotaxically-placed depth and epidural electrodes filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz in 8 consecutive patients. The epileptic zone was well-localized in 6 patients with 4 having mesial temporal (MT) and 2 having frontal neocortical foci with dysplastic lesions, and was regional or poorly localized in 2 others. Characteristic EEG sections lasting 3?10 s were selected within the seizures of each patient to reflect ictal onset, propagation and termination. Distinct high frequency (>100 Hz) segments were identified visually in the background and in the seizure sections by analyzing the expanded record dually with 50Hz and 100 Hz high-pass filters. Focal changes in high frequency activity during the seizure were also identified using spectral analysis by comparing section band powers (i.e. slow (0?40Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz)) with the background. Results: 12 seizures were analyzed from the 4 patients with MT foci, 7 from the 2 patients with neocortical foci, and 4 from the 2 patients with no definitive epileptogenic zone. Discrete, focal VHF segments were visually identified at seizure onset in 4/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone. Increased HF activity compared to the background was distinguished both visually and with spectral analysis later in the seizures of 3/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone and, in one patient, areas of contralateral peri-hippocampal propagation. The 2 patients with neocortical foci had increased HF activity confined to the epileptic zone late in their seizures, identified by visual and spectral analysis. No discrete HF or VHF activity was present in the poorly-localized seizures. Conclusions: VHF segments (fast ripples?) were consistently present in the epileptic zone early in seizures of patients with MT epilepsy. In contrast, HF activity was seen more prominently later in seizures, involving the epileptogenic areas of MT and neocortical patients, as well as areas of mesial temporal propagation. Changes in high frequency activity (100 to 500Hz) were absent in patients whose seizures were poorly-localized.This study demonstrates that changes in high frequency activity occur in regions of primary epileptogenesis and secondary spread in anatomically different foci. These activities may reflect focal synchronization of neuronal ensembles that are important in initiating or maintaining ictal activity. Moreover, absent high frequency activity seems to indicate poor localization. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Heinrich Vogt, 1 Thomas Baisch, and 1 Ian W. Mothersill ( 1 Swiss Epilepsy Center, Swiss Epilepsy Center, Zuerich, Switzerland ) Rationale: The progressive myoclonus epilepsies comprise a heterogenous group of diseases wich are clinically characterised by myoclonus with variable localisation, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, progressive dementia of variable severity and neurological symptomes, usually cerebellar. It is generally accepted that the locomotory disablement is due to cerebellar ataxia. We observed that in the course of the disease negative myoclonias are one of the most striking symptom and hypothesised that they were the main reason for locomotor disability. Methods: Negative myoclonias are very difficult to recognise without ictal polygraphic recordings in freely moving patients.We performed ictal polygraphic video-EEG-recordings (16 channel EEG, 8 channel surface EMG) in 13 patients with EPM1 (Unverricht-Lundborg Disease), proven by mutation of the CSTB Gene, 1 MERFF with a mitochondrial point mutation and 2 EPM2 (Lafora disease), proven by skin biopsy. Results: All 16 patients presented with negative myoclonias of short duration either isolated or in combination with myoclonus. They were provoked by voluntary movement. The duration of the muscular atonia was between 100 and 300 ms. Except 3 patients with EPM1 all where wheelchair bound, mainly due to fear of falls, caused by the frequent muscle atonias. Conclusions: We have shown, using simultaneous EEG/EMG recordings in freely moving patients, that the locomotor disability is in fact mainly due to negative myoclonus in voluntary innervated muscles. 1 Florian Mormann, 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Department of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: The localization of the epileptic focus from intracranial EEG recordings during the interictal period (i.e., without the necessity of observing any seizures) has been a focus of research in the past years. In addition to linear and nonlinear univariate measures, bivariate measures for synchronization have been shown to be capable of correctly lateralizing the focal hemisphere in the majority of cases. A more precise localization of the focal area, however, has not been achieved. Since the pathological neurons constituting the epileptic focus are assumed to drive the surrounding tissue, we used bivariate measures of directionality to investigate the driving influence of a focal area on the surrounding regions. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, the total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Side of focus was assessed by complete postoperative seizure control after selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Histopathological evaluation showed hippocampal sclerosis in all cases. A measure for directionality of phase coupling was calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique and then averaged over time. Results: In 26 out of 30 cases, we found a distinct region in the ipsilateral hippocampal formation that drove the surrounding regions both in the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal formation. The spatial extent of this region was usually found to range between 5 and 20 mm. Conclusions: Even during the seizure-free interval, the focus appears to be driving its surrounding areas. Its influence can be seen not only on the ipsilateral, but also on the contralateral temporal lobe. Analysis using directionality measures may allow a functional delineation of the focal area during the presurgical evaluation as a prerequisite for super-selective resection in epilepsy surgery. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1,4 Marizabel Rozas Latorre, 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2 Micah Brown, and 2,3 Don M. Tucker ( 1 Neurology, Regional Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesic, INC., Eugene, OR ; 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ; and 4 Neurología, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Lima, Peru ) Rationale: To determine the regions of cerebral cortex activated during the onset and propagation of electroencephalographic (EEG) epileptiform patterns in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). Methods: Ten patients with the clinical diagnosis of JME were included; there were three women and seven men between 16 and 38 years of age. Standard EEG studies demonstrated generalized 4?6 Hz spike-wave or multiple spike-wave discharges. In all cases the MRI and neurological exams were normal. A dense-array, 256-channel scalp EEG recorded epileptiform discharges in each patient. Source analyses of discharges were performed in all subjects, using an equivalent dipole (BESA) and two linear inverse methods (LORETA and LAURA), with results co-registered to a standard MRI model. Results: The three methods of source analyses yielded generally convergent results. In all patients epileptiform discharges engaged orbital-frontal cortex and basal-mesial temporal regions, with the left side more often involved than the right. Activation of occipital cortex was also frequent, with occasional rapid spread to superior or mesial frontal, or parietal regions. Spike components preferentially activated orbital-frontal and temporal cortex, while slow wave elements had wider distributions over the same areas. Some variations were found in propagation patterns both within and between subjects. Conclusions: Epileptiform patterns in JME patients have both localized onsets and a restricted cortical network during propagation that consistently includes orbital-frontal and basal-mesial temporal areas, with less frequent activation of occipital cortex and other regions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wisser, J.
TI  - WS14-07Volume sonography of the female pelvic floor after childbirth
JO  - Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology
VL  - 16
IS  - s1
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-91.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-91.x
SP  - 26
EP  - 26
PY  - 2000
AB  - Objective To evaluate the sonomorphologic changes of the female pelvic floor after childbirth. Furthermore the timing of the appearance of these defects labor are examined. Methods We examined three groups of patients. 104 primiparae after vaginal delivery, 26 primiparae after elective cesarean section and 77 primiparae after secondary cesarean section within 3?7?days after delivery. To assess the morphology of the pelvic floor we used to examine the anal morphology, whereas the transrectal route was used to assess the paraurethral fixation of the lateral vaginal edges. Paravaginal defect was defined as descent of the lateral vaginal edges below the suburethral portion of the vagina and defects of the internal anal sphincter is defined by anterior vs. posterior thickness-ratio below 0.5. Clinical symptoms were documented using a standardized questionnaire. Results Primiparae after elective cesarean section served as control group. After vaginal delivery 7.3% of women showed urinary and 17.7% anal incontinence. Mode of delivery is significantly associated with anal and urinary incontinence. Paraurethral defect is predictive for urinary incontinence. Morphological defects of the pelvic floor could be documented after dilatation of the cervix to more than 7?cm. Conclusions Volume sonography after childbirth allows to document trauma to the pelvic floor due to vaginal delivery. Defects of the anterior compartment are predictive for the development of urinary incontinence. To study the timing of the appearance of pelvic floor defects during the course of vaginal delivery may be helpful for obstetrical decision making.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Couturier, J.
AU  - Rault, D.
AU  - Cauzinille, L.
TI  - Chiari-like malformation and syringomyelia in normal cavalier King Charles spaniels: a multiple diagnostic imaging approach
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 49
IS  - 9
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2008.00578.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2008.00578.x
SP  - 438
EP  - 443
PY  - 2008
AB  - Objectives: The objectives of the study were (1) to report the incidence of Chiari-like malformation and syringomyelia in a normal French cavalier King Charles spaniel breeding population; (2) to precise the standard computed tomography dimensions of the caudal fossa and (3) to investigate the use of ultrasonography in diagnosis of this syndrome. Methods: Clinically normal adult cavalier King Charles spaniel underwent ultrasonographic examination of the spinal cord and caudal fossa. Computed tomography was used to measure the caudal fossa and magnetic resonance imaging allowed syringomyelia and cerebellar herniation identification. Results: Of the 16 dogs in the study, seven had syringomyelia (43·7 per cent). All dogs had cerebellar herniation, suggesting Chiari-like malformation and also a tendency to occipital dysplasia. Computed tomography measurements of the caudal fossa are reported. In one dog, a syrinx was identified by ultrasonography. The only difference between dogs with or without syringomyelia was that dogs with Chiari-like malformation/syringomyelia were statistically older. Clinical Significance: The incidence of Chiari-like malformation and syringomyelia may be high in an asymptomatic population of cavalier King Charles spaniel . Computed tomography measurements reported in this study should now be compared with those of a symptomatic population to evaluate the hypothesis that dogs with Chiari-like malformation/syringomyelia syndrome have a smaller caudal fossa. This study did not identify a smaller caudal fossa in an asymptomatic cavalier King Charles spaniel population with syringomyelia. Ultrasonography probably has a low sensitivity for diagnosis of Chiari-like malformation/syringomyelia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Nursing/Psychosocial/Health Services
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
SP  - 14
EP  - 23
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Melanie A. Adams, 1 Bradley V. Vaughn, and 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh ( 1 Dept. of Neurology, Univ. of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Seizure control in epilepsy has been thought to be the primary goal for both patients and clinicians. However, practitioners may not be fully aware of what goals epilepsy patients truly wish to attain. We surveyed epilepsy patients in our clinic and asked them to list their primary goal for treatment of their epilepsy. We also considered how treatment regimen and seizure frequency may influence a patient's goals. Methods: We surveyed 48 patients in our Epilepsy Clinic at the University of North Carolina and asked them to list their primary goal for their epilepsy treatment, the number of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) they used, and their seizure frequency. Results: Forty-eight patients with a mean age of 41.3 years completed the survey and 32 were female. The subjects averaged taking 2 antiepileptic drugs and had an average seizure frequency of one seizure per month. We grouped the patients by number of AEDs used and seizure frequency. We found that patients who were using two or more antiepileptic drugs were more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 19% of patients taking one AED listed seizure control as their primary goal, but 75% of patients taking two AEDs listed seizure control as their goal and 93% of patients taking three AEDs listed seizure control as their goal. Additionally, patients that had a higher seizure frequency were also more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. When looking at seizure frequency, 69% of patients who had more frequent seizures (seizures occurring at least once per month) listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. All of the patients (n = 4) who had more than one seizure per week, but less than one seizure per day, listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 40% of patients who had been seizure-free for one year or longer listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. Conclusions: In our study we found that most of our epilepsy patients listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. However, we found that patients who were taking more antiepileptic medications and had a higher seizure frequency were most likely to list seizure control as their primary goal. This may indicate that patients are willing to use more than one AED for seizure control despite the risk of an increase in side effects from the combination of medications. Additionally, we found that patients who were using one AED and had fewer seizures were least likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. This highlights the importance of communication between patients who have seizures and the practitioners who treat them to establish a treatment plan that can insure compliance from the patient, especially if the patient has refractory seizures. 1 Marlene Blackman, 1,2 Elaine Wirrell, and 1,2 Lorie Hamiwka ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy have greater behavior problems than healthy controls. Both intractability and mental handicap predict greater risk. Methods: Cohort study of 58 children aged 4?17 years with epilepsy attending a tertiary care pediatric neurology clinic. Parent-completed Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) subscores were compared between children with and without refractory epilepsy (defined as failure of >2 AEDs and seizures ≥ q3monthly over the past year) and with and without mental handicap using the Mann-Whitney U test. Results: 58 children were surveyed, 21 with refractory epilepsy (4 normal cognition, 17 mental handicap) and 37 with non-refractory epilepsy (22 normal cognition, 15 mental handicap). Groups did not differ significantly with respect to age or gender. Those with refractory epilepsy scored significantly higher (more abnormal) on the Social Problems (p < 0.05) and Attention Problems (p < 0.02) subscales of the CBCL. Those with mental handicap scored significantly higher on the Withdrawn (p < 0.001), Social Problems (p < 0.00001), Thought Problems (p < 0.00005), Attention Problems (p < 0.00001) and Aggressive Behavior (p < 0.02) subscales. Conclusions: While children with refractory epilepsy have greater behavior problems as indicated by the Social Problems and Attention Problems subscales, co-morbid cognitive impairment appears to be even more predictive of poor behavioral outcome in children with epilepsy. 1 Janice M. Buelow, 1 Joan K. Austin, 1 Angela M. McNelis, and 1 Cheryl P. Shore ( 1 School of Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Parents of children with epilepsy and Intellectual Disability (ID) report that their children have significant behavior problems. Past research shows that the level of family stress and child behavior problems are related, however the nature of this relationship is not well understood. In order to better understand the complex interaction of family stress and child behavior problems, this study describes the behavior problems of children with epilepsy and ID and parental perception of their child's behavior problems. Methods: Qualitative naturalistic inquiry was used to describe naturally occurring phenomena. Participants were 20 parents of children (9?16 years, mean = 12.2) who had at least two seizures a year or were on anti-epilepsy medications, and had an IQ between 55 and 75. Open-ended interviews were conducted with parents to explore the problems they experienced while raising their children. Interviews lasted about 1 hour, were tape recorded and transcribed verbatim. Each interview was analyzed for within-case themes. After interviews were analyzed individually, themes were compared across cases to identify commonalities. Two researchers reviewed each interview and agreement was reached on themes Results: The most common problem behaviors were: (1) attention problems, (2) inappropriate behavior in public including temper tantrums, (3) poor socialization skills including inability to make friends, and (4) violent behavior including injuries to self and others. Parent themes regarding behavior were (1) I recognize and can manage my child's behavior, (2) my child's behaviors are just part of life, (3) my child's behaviors problems are because of others' actions and (4) my child's behavior problems are a result of seizures. Only one family out of 20 stated that there were no behavior problems. Conclusions: This study describes specific behavior problems that children experience and parental perceptions regarding the behavior. Child behaviors ranged from attention problems to violent behavior and family themes ranged from recognition of the problem to blaming the problem on outside events. Future studies should address the underlying causes of the behavior problems in these children with the goal of intervening to reduce or eliminate these problem areas. In addition, clinicians should be assessing for behavior problems in children with epilepsy and low IQ. (Supported by NR 04536 and NR 005035v 1 Kami D. Clark, 1 Steve S. Chung, and 1 David M. Treiman ( 1 Epilepsy Program, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: The number of medication and treatment options for the 2.3 million epilepsy patients in the U.S. in increasing. Understanding treatment regimens including medications and diagnostic testing is crucial for epilepsy patients. In addition, accurately conveying information concerning adverse effects of antiepileptic medications is critical. A lack of understanding or education may adversely effect medication compliance and treatment efficacy. Returning the phone calls of patients with questions is an important but often a time-consuming and costly task for healthcare providers. We analyzed patient care related phone calls to try to identify ways in which patient education could be improved. Therefore, reducing the frequency of phone queries from patients. Methods: We evaluated all patient care related phone calls received by the epilepsy nurse practitioner in the Barrow Neurological Institute Adult Epilepsy Clinic from December 2004 through April 2005. A total of 209 calls were evaluated. These calls excluded patients calling to request medication refills or appointments, and any call not placed by an epilepsy patient or his/her caregiver. Results: The 209 patient phone calls were divided into eight categories. Medication related questions accounted for 34.4% (72) of all calls. Reporting breakthrough seizures, 32.5% (68), queries regarding lab/test results, 8.6% (18), work/disability issues, 8.2% (17), other health related questions, 8.2% (17), OTC medication questions, 4.8% (10), other epilepsy treatment options, 1.9% (4), and 1.4% (3) called the clinic to report doing well. We reviewed common questions of epilepsy patients who call the epilepsy clinic so that we may redirect education efforts. The most common call received was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects, new onset of symptoms, and medication titration and weaning schedules. Although, initial in-office medication education and written titration schedules were provided for all these patients, almost thirty five percent required additional education or clarification via time consuming telephone conversations. Conclusions: The most common call received to our clinic was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects (44) and verifying medication titration and weaning schedules (28). In order to optimize patient care and patient empowerment, our study indicates that the development of clearly written medication side effect profiles and medication titration and weaning schedules may improve patient care and reduce incoming phone calls. 1 B. M. Corbett, 1 S. L. Hanson, 1 N. F. Lendzion, 1 T. B. Pipe, 1 J. J. Bortz, 1 J. F. Drazkowski, 1 J. I. Sirven, 1 L. C. Helepololei, 1 J. M. Muccioli, 1 L. M. Tapsell, 1 L. M. Autry, 1 D. L. Shulman, 1 J. K. Gerke, and 1 R. S. Zimmerman ( 1 5 West, Mayo Clinic Hospital, Scottsdale, AZ ) Rationale: At MCH, a select number of patients with medically intractable seizures undergo diagnostic admissions involving subtraction ictal SPECT co-registered to MRI (SISCOM). The timeliness and efficiency of radioisotope injection is crucial to the potential identification of epileptogenic foci. The optimum results yielded by this procedure requires timing of radioisotope injection to be as close to seizure onset as possible. However, little is known about factors that facilitate or hinder the efficiency of ictal injections. Our pilot study is an important first step in gathering objective data regarding facilitators and barriers to efficient radioisotope administration. Methods: A focus-group questionnaire was distributed to the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit (EMU) nursing staff in order to identify key factors related to injection response time. From this data, an item checklist was derived and subsequently used to evaluate a retrospective series of 16 consecutive radioisotope injections. Eight of these cases fell within 60 seconds of seizure onset. Eight injections occurred after the 60-second cutoff. Videotapes of each injection were independently reviewed by raters blind to response time. Results: Results revealed timing efficiency was significantly related to a higher number of staff assisting in the procedure (?2= 11.20, p = .01). Although not statistically significant, a trend regarding an inverse relationship between gloving time and injection efficiency was evidenced. Other variables, including patient responsiveness, amount of environmental clutter, and the number of SISCOM patients on the unit were not related to time between seizure onset and injection. Conclusions: This pilot study is part of a broader investigation that includes prospective data derived from a larger group of study patients. Initial results identified a positive relationship between the number of staff available to assist in the procedure and the timing efficiency of SISCOM injections. These data may reflect several factors, including 1) efficacy of teamwork required to stabilize and prepare patients for injection and 2) increased consensus regarding the appropriateness of injection. The data also suggests gloving in advance, rather than at the time of seizure onset, facilitates speed of injection. Finally, these data may have important implications in the evaluation of acuity and staffing levels for patients undergoing ictal SPECT studies. 1 Sandra M. Cushner-Weinstein, 1 Leslie Bethke-Pope, 2 Jay Salpekar, 1 William D. Gaillard, 1 Phillip L. Pearl, 1 Marian Kolodgie, 1 Audrey Scully, 1 Joan Conry, and 1 Steve L. Weinstein ( 1 Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, George Washington University, Washington, DC ; and 2 Psychiatry, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Camps developed for children with epilepsy were questioned to evaluate change in design, goals, and programs from the years 2001 to 2005. The expectation was to find an increase in condition specific camps, common identified goals, and the number of individuals with epilepsy in leadership roles. Camps were compared for similarities and differences. Methods: In 2001, thirty-one camps for children with epilepsy received telephone interviews comprised of thirty-eight questions. In 2005, twenty-five camps for children with epilepsy received a questionnaire by mail or e-mail and phone contact for clarification. The thirty-eight questions in 2001 were reduced to twenty questions in 2005, based on the original questions and answers. Included in the questions were camp designs, goals, composition and age of campers, schedules, opportunities for camper advancement, return rates, percentage of staff with epilepsy, co-morbidities, and staff to camper ratio. Results: From 2001 to 2005, three primary designs of camps continue to exist with a shift towards condition specific camps. The designs include camps for children diagnosed with epilepsy, for family member(s) and campers with epilepsy, and integrated or mainstream camps. Over four years, the number of camps increased serving children with epilepsy only, 54% (2001) to 60% (2005), and serving children with epilepsy and family members, 3% (2001) to 24% (2005). Also a decrease in the number of integrated camps from 19% (2001) to 16% (2005) was found. Other findings include in 2001, 50% of the camps did not have counselors with epilepsy while in 2005, 65% did; however, 20% had less than 10% of counselors with epilepsy. Only 52% of camps in 2001 offered opportunities for campers to advance to leadership roles (counselors in training or assistants) and there was an increase (64%) in 2005. Also in 2005, 65% of the camps selected socialization, independence, and self-esteem as their top three camper benefits and goals, while in 2001, less than 35% of the camps identified socialization and self-esteem as benefits or goals. Conclusions: The percentage of condition specific camps serving children with epilepsy and epilepsy and family member(s) increased over four years, as did the opportunities for campers to advance in leadership roles. It is important for camps serving children with epilepsy to question their design and implement programs to support and promote goals. 1 Kirsti J. Dahlen, 1 Torunn Erichsen, and 1 Siv Skarstein ( 1 Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; and Administration, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway ) Rationale: Over the past decades a change in paradigm has taken place from seeing the patient as a passive receiver of treatment, till todays focus on empowerment and individual rehabilitation prosesses. A multidiciplinary educational programme for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation was established at the National Centre for Epilepsy in Norway in 2003. This educational programme focuses on two main subjects: Evidence based treatment and care within epilepsy and the rehabilitation prosess, including multidiciplinary communication and cooperation, and patient autonomy. The education takes place at the epilepsy centre and the syllabus is developed in close collaboration with a local university college. The students meet five sessions per year, each session lasting four days. The programme includes lectures, tutoring and group work. In this study, we have assessed the satisfaction among the students who completed the programme in 2003/4 and 2004/5. Methods: All 31 students participating in course l (2003/4) and course 2 (2004/5) answered a standardized evaluation questionnaire. The questionnaire contained 7 questiones with five alternative answers, scaled from 1 (bad) to 5 (very good). 18 of the students attending the educational programme were registered nurses and 13 were registered nurses for the mentally subnormal. 14 were fulltime employed within community based service and 17 fulltime employed within specialist service. Results: 31 students have completed the courses so far. Evaluation of satisfaction with the programme in each session shows that all 31 students scored from good to very good. Evaluation according to relevance of the main learning objects for the education and the use of internal lectures from the centre, showed similar results. Student satisfaction regarding lectures and group work within epileptology showed a higher score than within rehabilitation. Conclusions: A multidiciplinary education for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation seems to be of importance for the participants. The syllabus is evaluated to be relevant for the purpose of this education. A pedagogical challenge is how to merge the two main objects. 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 1,2 Priscila Barioni Salgado, 1,2 Ana Lúcia Andrade Noronha, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, UNICAMP, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Psychology, ASPE, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The purpose of this study is to estimate the magnitude of epilepsy stigma in four cities in the southern region of Brazil, a limited-resource country. Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional population-based study in Campinas, a large city with ?1 million inhabitants in the southeast of Brazil. We applied Stigma Scale of Epilepsy (SSE) in 1.850 people from all the regions within the city following a sampling selection methodology (95% confidence interval and error of 2.3%). In order to assess whether there is a regional difference in degree of epilepsy stigma, we applied SSE in a random selected people on the streets during the II National Week of Epilepsy in other three cities; Vila Velha, Curitiba, and S?o Paulo. SSE consists of 10 questions that provide a total score ranging from 0 (no stigma) to 100 (highest level of stigma). SSE was developed and validated by our group and showed high internal consistency (α Cronbach's coefficient = 0.81). Sample size required for assessing group differences using SSE is 47 subjects (r = 0,40; alpha = 0,05 [IC = 95%]; beta = 0,20). Results: The mean age of the subjects (53% women) was 39 years (range from 12 to 90 years) in Campinas. The mean SSE score was 42 (range from 3 to 98; SD = 14). Women had SSE score higher (43) than men (40) (t-test [1848]= 5.42; p < 0.001). In regard to religion, spiritism had lowest level of SSE score (35); (ANOVA [4,1845]= 4.4; p = 0.0015, Tukey's: spiritism<catholic = evangelic = others = no religion). Level of education showed inverse relation to SSE scores, illiterate people had higher level of SSE score (45) than people with university degree (37) (ANOVA [4,1845]= 16.3; p < 0.0001). In other three cities, it was applied 209 questionnaires (Curitiba = 83 subjects, S?o Paulo = 47, Vila Velha = 79). The mean SSE (95% Confidence interval) score were different among four cities: Campinas = 42 (95%CI = 41?43); Vila Velha = 42 (95%CI = 39?45); Curitiba = 49 (95%CI = 46?52); S?o Paulo = 53 (95%CI = 48?58). Conclusions: Our study showed that there are differences in the perception of stigma in different societies in the same country. The magnitude of stigma is different within segment a society, highlighting that sociocultural factors, such as gender, religion, and level of education are important predictors of stigma. Mass media campaign should target these social segments to fight prejudice and improve social acceptance of people with epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Patricia Fischer ( 1 Department of Pharmacy Practice, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Developing a seizure emergency treatment plan enables efficient management of seizure emergencies and decreases the potential for seizure-related complications. Individualized treatment plans provide for more patient and caregiver control in seizure emergencies, minimize the effect seizures have in the workplace or at school, and may reduce the need for access to emergency medical care. Recent emphasis has been placed on seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children; however, adults who experience seizures would also benefit from a predetermined course of action for seizure emergencies. Methods: A comprehensive review of the components associated with seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children, along with a literature review and clinical experience with adult patients with seizures, revealed that a seizure emergency treatment plan for adults would be a practical and comprehensive adjunctive treatment approach. The unique needs of adult patients were taken into consideration to develop a protocol for designing seizure emergency treatment plans for an adult population. Results: A 5-phase protocol to develop seizure emergency treatment plans for adult patients with seizures was created. In Phase I, patients who would benefit from plan development are identified; patients who require emergency medical transport for prolonged seizure episodes, patients whose antiepileptic drug regimen is being changed, and patients who are severely affected by their seizure activity are candidates. In Phase II, key plan components are identified, including seizure presentation and history, recognition of seizure emergencies, seizure first aid, and caretaker designation. If emergency seizure treatment includes seizure rescue medication, diazepam rectal gel (Diastat?) information (eg, administration instructions, time to stop seizures, instructions regarding repeat dosing, patient care) is delineated. In Phase III, specific steps needed to implement the plan are addressed, including caregiver education, use in patient-specific environments (eg, at work, while traveling), and removal of perceived obstacles to success. In Phase IV, efficacy, safety, ease of implementation, and patient and caregiver satisfaction with the plan are evaluated. Phase V allows for plan modification based on the evaluation as well as changes in seizure presentation and patient physical characteristics. Conclusions: Adult patients who experience seizures have unique treatment needs that warrant the development and implementation of individualized seizure emergency treatment plans for optimal management of seizure activity. (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Laura H. Goldstein, 2 Leah Holland, 2 Helen Soteriou, and 2 John D.C. Mellers ( 1 Psychology, PO 77, Institute of Psychiatry, London, United Kingdom ; and 2 Neuropsychiatry, Maudsley Hospital, London, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Whilst psychosocial well-being in people with epilepsy is thought to be related to styles of coping, less is known about the relationship between the way people with epilepsy perceive their illness (i.e. their illness representations) and their psychological state. Similarly, little is known about the extent to which illness representations are related to coping strategies when predicting outcome measures such as mood. Therefore, this study set out to extend what is known about predictors of anxiety and depression symptoms in adults with chronic epilepsy. Methods: Forty-three adults with chronic epilepsy attending out-patient hospital clinics completed the Illness Perception Questionnaire, the Ways of Coping Scale and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Recent seizure frequency was noted, as were patients' seizure types and age at onset of their epilepsy. Results: Whilst epilepsy variables (seizure frequency, age at seizure onset and number of seizure types) were not significantly related to mood, having also adjusted for gender within multiple regression analyses, an increased use of escape-avoidance and a decreased use of distancing as coping strategies best predicted patients' anxiety scores. In addition to the use of escape-avoidant coping, depression scores were also best predicted by the use of self-controlling coping strategies. After accounting for coping styles, anxiety scores were independently predicted by Illness Identity scores (i.e. the number of symptoms that patients associated with their seizures); this indicated that coping was not simply mediating the impact of illness representations on patients' mood. In contrast, no measure of illness representations independently predicted depression scores. Conclusions: Our results highlight the potential relevance of epilepsy patients' cognitive representations of their illness (and in particular patients' beliefs concerning Illness Identity), as well as their coping styles in determining their psychological well-being. Such factors may also be of importance when studying aspects of their health-related behaviour. 1 Andres M. Kanner, 1 Joanne Wuu, 2 Bruce Hermann, 3 Kimford Meador, 4 Frank Gilliam, and 5 John Barry ( 1 Neurological Sciences, Rush Medical College, Chicago, IL ; 2 Neurology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison, WI ; 3 Neurology, University of Florida School of Medicine, Gainsville, FL ; 4 Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 5 Psychiatry, Stanford Univesrity School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA ) Rationale: In patients with epilepsy (PWE) up to 50% of depressive episodes are atypical as they fail to meet any of the diagnostic criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV). Their semiology tends to be similar to dysthymic disorders and can therefore be referred as Dysthymic-like Disorders of Epilepsy (DLDE). The purpose of this study was to identify the most frequent symptoms of DLDE that could be used in the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. Methods: First phase: Sample A: 205 consecutive PWE from five outpatient epilepsy clinics underwent structured psychiatric interviews with two validated instruments used to identify Axis I diagnoses, according to the DSM-IV criteria (the Structured Clinical Interview for Axis I DSM-IV Disorders [SCID] and the Minin International Neuropsychiatric Inventory) and completed a 46 item instrument, the Mood and Anxiety Symptoms in Epilepsy (MASE), integrated by symptoms of depression (n = 16), anxiety (n = 11), irritability (n = 9), socialization difficulties (n = 5), increased energy (n = 3) and physical symptoms (n = 2). Each item inquires on the presence of a symptom for the last two weeks and is rated on a 4 Lickert Scale (1 [not at all] to 4 [all the time]) and was completed twice, two weeks apart. The MASE has a high internal consistency with a Chronbach alpha of 0.96. Among the 205 patients, 52 failed to meet any diagnostic criteria on the SCID and MINI but had a mean of 17.7 ± 7 positive symptoms (rated as 3 [some of the time] or 4 [all of the time]) on the MASE. Thirteen symptoms were identified by more than 50% of these patients. Second phase: The presence of these 13 symptoms was investigated in a second sample, of 159 PWE and a DLDE (Sample B) who underwent an evaluation with the same psychiatric instruments. Results: Among the 13 symptoms identified in > 50% of sample A patients (see below), 11 were identified in > 50% of sample B patients. These included: feel like crying (52%), disappointed (70%), moody (75%), worried (69%), tense (68%), get impatient easily (72%), agitated (55%), frustrated (65%), irritable and cranky (65%), prefer to be alone (62%), and tired (74%). Two symptoms identified in more than 50% in sample A but not in sample B included: angry and racing thoughts. Conclusions: DLDE is a pleomorphic mood disorder with symptoms of depression, anxiety and irritability. These 11 items are being evaluated for the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. (Supported by Glaxo-Smith-Kline.) 1,2 Ana Lucia Andrade Noronha, 2 Moacir Alves Borges, 2 Lucia Neves Marques, 4 Dirce Trevisan Zanetta, 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 5 Hanneke De Boer, 6 Javier Espindola, 6 Claudio Miranda, 7 Josemir W. Sander, 8 Leonid Prilipko, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, Faculty of Medicine - UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 2 EDUCATION, ASPE, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 3 Neurology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 4 Epidemiology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 5 Secretariat, Global Campaign Against Epilepsy ; 6 Pan-American Health Organization ; 7 Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom ; and 8 World Health Organization, Switzerland ) Rationale: The worldwide prevalence of epilepsy has been estimated to be around 10/1,000; however, the access to treatment is quite variable. Many people go untreated, particularly in resource poor countries, which may add to the cumulative prevalence of epilepsy in these countries. This study had an objective to estimate the prevalence of epilepsy and the proportion of people not receiving adequate treatment in different socio-economic classes in Brazil, a resource poor country. Methods: We conducted a door-to-door community survey to assess the prevalence and treatment gap of epilepsy (corrected for socio-economic status) in three areas of two cities (Campinas and S?o José do Rio Preto[SJRP]) in the southeast of Brazil. The total population studied in these three areas was 96,300 people. We applied a validated epidemiological questionnaire with sensitivity 95.8% and specificity 97.8% for epilepsy screening, and a neurologist further ascertained the positive cases. We applied a validated questionnaire based on household possessions inventory for socio-economic classification that ranges from Class A (highest) to E (lowest). We defined adequate epilepsy treatment as regular use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) at standard dosage. Results: The cumulative prevalence was 9.1/1,000 people. The estimated prevalence of active epilepsy was 5.3/1,000 people. The prevalence of active epilepsy was higher in the more deprived social classes in Campinas (Class D+E = 8.1/1,000 [95%CI = 4.4?11.9] vs. Class A = 1.6/1,000 [0.4?2.9]) and in SJRP (Class D+E = 7.3/1,000 [5.7?8.9] vs. Class B = 3.1/1,000 [1.5?4.7]). Thirty-seven percent of patients with active epilepsy had inadequate treatment, including 19% who were not on any medication; the figures were similar in the different socio-economic groups. Conclusions: The prevalence of epilepsy in Brazil is similar to other resource-poor countries, and the treatment gap is high. We studied the differences in the social classes for prevalence and treatment gap, and the poorer classes had higher prevalence than the richest ones, while treatment gap is similar. Commitment of the health system towards improvement of the quality of health management for people with epilepsy and consistent and regular AED supply is needed. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Roy C. Martin, 1 Russell H. Fushee, 1 Edward Faught, 1 Robert C. Knowlton, and 1 Laura K. Vogtle ( 1 Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: Driving restrictions play a central role in the quality of life in patients with epilepsy (PWE). Neurologists as well as other physician groups bear considerable responsibility for decisions about driving privileges in PWE. However, little is known about how neurologist's attitudes compare to other physician groups. The purpose of this survey was to compare practices and beliefs across physician subspecialties that treat PWE. Methods: A sample of 209 physicians (Neurologists = 56; non-neurologists (NN) = Family Practice and Internal Medicine physicians = 133 and Other/unspecified = 20) completed a 28-item survey related to driving issues and epilepsy. Surveys were completed through fax technology that met IRB approval. A random geographic sampling of 1400 physicians, obtained through a commercial provider, were faxed the survey. A 19% response rate was achieved. Some neurologists completed the survey during a regional epilepsy conference (21 of 48 conference attendees). Results: All practitioners treated PWE and nearly 100% of those surveyed felt driving should be allowed with seizure control. Both groups felt that 6 months seizure-free was an appropriate limit for reinstatement of driving privileges. NNs were more likely to oppose allowing people with uncontrolled seizures to drive (99% vs. 92%; p < .01). NNs were more likely to oppose people with uncontrolled seizures having driver's licenses when the seizures did not result in the loss of consciousness (85% vs. 61%; p < .001), when seizures occurred nocturnally (72% vs. 45%; p < .001), and more likely to agree that states should set a minimum time for PWE to be seizure free before allowing a driver's license (96% vs. 80%; p < .005). NNs were more likely to support mandatory reporting of patient seizure information to state motor vehicle departments (90% vs. 36%; p < .001). Neurologists were more likely to have had PWE report an automobile accident due to a seizure, (72% vs. 33%; p < .001), more likely to have suspected that PWEs had an unreported automobile accident due to a seizure (60% vs. 39%; p < .01), and to have had PWE give justifications for having to drive (75% vs. 58%; p < .05). Conclusions: Neurologists and NNs expressed several similar opinions regarding the importance of physician assistance in evaluating driving issues in PWE and the need for driving restrictions under certain circumstances. However, they differed in terms of specific areas including mandatory reporting and obtaining a drivers license under certain conditions. Although neurologists have had more patients involved in automobile accidents, NNs were generally more restrictive in their support for driving by PWE. This survey highlights the need for continued epilepsy-specific education outreach efforts directed at the non-neurology medical community. (Supported by the Special Interest Project from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention awarded through the UAB Center for Health Promotion.) 1 Louise Mc Quaid, 1 Colin Doherty, 1 Tony Kenny, 1 Norman Delanty, and 1 Mary Fitzsimons ( 1 Epilepsy Programme, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland ) Rationale: Electronic health (eHealth) services have the potential to enhance epilepsy care by improving integration of health services. Electronic patient records (EPR) provide basic infrastructure for eHealth services. An EPR supports pre-service, point-of-service and after-service enhancements for all stakeholders ? patients and their carers, clinicians, health researchers and healthcare managers. EPR's facilitate the continuity of patient care both within and across healthcare organisation boundaries as simultaneous and/or remote access by multiple users is possible. Data protection and security is enhanced with an audit trail of all accesses to the record which is role-based and limited to authorised and authenticated users. An EPR supports health service monitoring, planning, and health research as it provides ready access to large volumes of integrated, harmonised and consistent patient data. While the potential benefits of EPR's are clear, their design, development and implementation represent a socio-technical challenge. The epilepsy programme at Beaumont Hospital aims to design, develop and implement a standards based secure EPR to support epilepsy clinical services and research activities. Methods: System design involved a qualitative study to determine user and domain requirements, data protection, security and training requirements, and to inform software engineers. Study subjects included potential users of the EPR ? epileptologists, NCHDs, epilepsy nurses and the epilepsy clinic administrator. Data collection Multi-stage interviews following a Delphi technique were conducted with potential users; ethnographic fieldwork was conducted to observe users in the environment where the EPR will be used. Results: Data collected were used to establish the granularity of field requirements for the EPR; process-mapping was conducted to illustrate the workflows that the EPR would support; a set of use-cases, or sequence of transactions, required for effective interaction between users and the EPR was determined The technical development of the EPR is based on international healthcare standards. It has two components, one which manages generic patient information and one that manages epilepsy specific information. The system architecture can therefore be applied to develop EPRs for the management of other diseases. Conclusions: The epilepsy EPR development is at an advanced stage. 16 of 30 use cases are complete. User acceptance testing commenced in April 2005 and we expect roll-out of phase 1 to the epilepsy out-patient service at Beaumont Hospital in Summer 2005. In this presentation we will demonstrate our experience with the project to date and the first phase EPR user interfaces. Building on this infrastructure we aim to further enhance the care of epilepsy patients by providing remote access to the EPR to healthcare professionals in other settings and to authorised patients. (Supported by the Irish Health Research Board.) 1 Mary T. McCole, 2 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 2 John O. Elliott ( 1 Critical Care Department, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Individuals with epilepsy always seek to know more about their condition. Parents of children with epilepsy and young people with epilepsy want to know if their condition is likely to remit or worsen. Young adults eventually become concerned about the possible hereditary impact epilepsy may have upon future offspring. In this study an individual with epilepsy, without training in genetics or medical research, endeavored to identify all family members with epilepsy. Methods: The index subject, an American female of Irish Catholic descent, identified herself. She was aware that epilepsy ran in her family. She subsequently researched the family history of epilepsy by interviewing living relatives. The fact that epilepsy occurred in multiple generations was found when the subject began exploring her family history. The index subject trained herself in genealogical research by following the recommendations of others who had done the same, as well as reviewing multiple records relevant to her family tree. Oral histories provided most of the information. All research was done in the US. Results: Genealogic research identified 5 generations with epilepsy in this family. Epilepsy could be traced back to the index subject's paternal grandparents (generation 1 G1). Epilepsy was clearly traced to the paternal grandfather's maternal family, although the grandmother seemed to have more knowledge than expected for seizure disorders. Grandparents were from the same county in Ireland but not cconsanguineous. They may have been denied immigration to the US by disclosing an illness such as epilepsy; however, neither were never known to have seizures. In the 2nd generation (G2) 1of 8 and 7 of 26 in generation 3 (G3) had seizures. All individuals but one in G2 married subjects of Irish heritage. All G3 subjects married non-Irish. In G4, 1of 45 had seizures. Of 9 G5 subjects, none have yet to develop seizures. While absence seizures were reported, the primary seizure type is tonic-clonic, with typical onset at age 8 and no onset later than 15. Epilepsy is mild; some individuals outgrew epilepsy. This research also identified three 2nd cousins; one each for G2, G3  however, one child was not able to go to school because of his condition. Two adults were currently unemployed because of their uncontrolled seizures. Results: The verbatim transcriptions were treated as a database. Data were analyzed by two investigators to identify themes. Each investigator independently identified the themes and listed the statements that supported that theme. The investigators then met to discuss each theme and supporting statements and 100% agreement was reached. Four themes with subthemes evolved from the parent data: Difficulties/Struggles/Problems (Navigating the health care system, Being an advocate, Trajectory of disorder and what to expect from health care professionals, Family role changes); Helpful at the beginning (Time to process, Access to doctors and nurses); Helpful now (Information: building on existing knowledge, Support); and Fears, Needs and Concerns (Interference with growth and development, Prognosis, Unpredictability/uncertainty). Two themes evolved from the child data: Talking at my level and Feeling different than others. Conclusions: Findings from this study provide direction for health care professionals working with children and their families. It is evident that much attention needs to be directed to assessing informational and emotional support needs during the diagnostic process. It appears equally important that ongoing assessment is necessary as chidlren and parents have continuing needs beyond the initial encounter. Future research is needed to develop educational interventions that address these concerns and needs for both children and their parents. (Supported by Center for Enhancing Quality of Life in Chronic Illness, Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis, IN, 46202.) 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Sally L. Hanson, 1 Chris D. Tollefson, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Joseph I. Sirven, 1 Michael C. Roarke, and 1 Deborah L. Shulman ( 1 Neurology/Nuclear Radiology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Many medical centers with epilepsy monitoring units (EMU), are performing ictal brain scintigraphy (SPECT). In order to produce accurate SPECT images, the injection of radiopharmaceutical (tracer) must occur during the seizure. After the onset of a seizure, the preferred maximum amount of time allowed for injecting the isotope is 90 seconds with less than 30 seconds being optimal. The medical personnel in closest proximity to the patient during seizure onset is the registered nurse (RN). Injection of the radioactive tracer by the RN may be the best way to ensure an optimally timed ictal injection. State radiation regulatory agencies are often reluctant to grant permission to perform these injections to allied health personnel outside of the Nuclear Medicine department. We will describe our RN safety education program and competency assessment program at Mayo Clinic Arizona (MCA). Methods: The Arizona Radiation Regulatory Agency (ARRA) controls the use of all radiopharmaceuticals. MCA has a broad scope radioactive material license from the ARRA. ARRA granted approval to deliver the injection of radiopharmaceuticals for this procedure, provided that an education module and competency assessment were developed for the RNs at MCA working in the EMU. Certified Nuclear Medicine Technologists (CNMTs) and the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) provided initial education (January 2003) for these RNs. Advisory opinions posted by the Arizona State Board of Nursing had previously established that RNs were able to inject IV contrast medium for diagnostic studies such as computed tomography. Results: A total of 15 RNs were present for the initial training which involved viewing a radiation safety video, reading and verbalizing understanding of the unit specific ictal radiopharmaceutical injection policy. A performance criteria sheet was completed as each RN demonstrated the correct performance of these injections. The initial class was approximately one hour. All 26 EMU RNs completed the same education requirements described above. All RNs (100%) met the competency requirement. This competency is reinforced and revalidated during annual unit based education, which is mandatory for all RNs. During annual competencies RNs are not required to view the radiation video again, however, they are required to demonstrate understanding of the policy as well as correct performance of the injection and handling of the radioactive material. Conclusions: Despite regulatory deterrents to the procedure, EMU RNs play an important role in the injection of ictal SPECT scan patients at MCA. Through a dedicated radiation safety education and competency assessment, EMU RNs can aquire the knowledge and skills necessary for the safe and rapid injection of the radiopharmaceutical during a seizure event. 1 Christine O'Dell, 1 David Masur, 2 Anne T. Berg, 1 Maryana Sigalova, 1 Rochelle C. Ledgister, and 1 Shlomo Shinnar ( 1 Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; and 2 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ) Rationale: To determine the frequency of the utilization of special educational services in children who present with a first unprovoked seizure. Methods: In a prospective study, 407 children age one month to 19 years (mean age 6.8 years) with a first unprovoked seizure were recruited and then followed for a mean of 14.4 years. A structured interview was conducted > 10 years after the initial seizure which included questions about education. Educational data were available in 325 (80%) cases and in 101 sibling controls. Results: In the overall cohort, 129 (40%) of the subjects and 23 (23%) of the controls in this predominantly inner city cohort had either received any special educational services including resource room or repeated a grade (SpEd group) at some point (p < 0.002). Limiting the analysis to cases with cryptogenic or idiopathic etiology, 85 (33%) of 259 cases compared to 23 (23%) controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.06). Among these 259 cases, 42 (28%) of 152 children who only had one seizure were in the SpEd group compared with 25 (32%) of 79 children with a total of 2 to 9 seizures and 18 (64%) of 28 children with 10 or more seizures over the duration of the study (p = 0.0007). Comparing the children with a cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and only one seizure to the controls, 28% of 152 cases and 23% of controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.39). On the other hand, 40% of 107 children with cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and recurrent seizures were in the SpEd group which was significantly higher than the control group (p = 0.007). Conclusions: Children with recurrent seizures have a higher rate of receiving special educational services than children who present with a single unprovoked seizure or than sibling controls. This is particularly true of those with 10 or more seizures. However, children with a single unprovoked seizure who do not recur have a similar profile of educational needs as controls. These data provide further support for the favorable outcome of children with a single unprovoked seizure. (Supported by NIH grant NS 26151 from NINDS.) 1,4,5 Rosemary J. Panelli, 1 Susan M. Moore, 2 Christine Kilpatrick, 2 Zelko Matkovic, 3 Wendyl D'souza, and 2,3,4 Terence J. O'Brien ( 1 Life and Social Sciences, Swinburne University ; 2 Department of Neurology, Royal Melbourne Hospital ; 3 Department of Neurology, The Alfred ; 4 Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne ; and 5 Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Research suggests that patients with epilepsy are at risk of negative psychosocial effects. This longitudinal study followed a cohort of First Seizure Clinic patients over 12 months to compare psychosocial outcomes of those patients diagnosed with seizures and those who were not. Methods: Following a suspected first seizure, adults with no known prior diagnosis of epilepsy were grouped into four broad diagnostic categories: provoked or single seizures (33.5%), epilepsy (35.5%), syncope (14.3%), or other (18.8%). Self-report questionnaires were completed at the first visit (n = 245), 3 months (n = 156), and 12 months (n = 93). Measures included the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), a perception of general health question, a satisfaction with treatment scale, and a perceived stigma scale. Results: In 245 participants the mean age was 37 years (SD 16) and 65% were male. Anxiety and depression rates did not differ significantly between the four diagnostic groups. However, there was a strong relationship between mood and levels of perceived general health. Patients with the poorest perception of their general health had anxiety and depression levels significantly higher than patients with high levels of perceived general health at all time points (all p < 0.001, one way ANOVA). Satisfaction with treatment also did not vary between diagnostic groups, but was correlated with mood. Low treatment satisfaction was associated with high levels of anxiety and depression: 3 months (anxiety: r = .35, p < 0.001; depression: r = .29, p < 0.01); 12 months (anxiety: r = .27, p < 0.05, depression: r = .24, p < 0.05). There was no difference between the perceived stigma scores of the four diagnostic categories. However, perceived stigma was strongly correlated with anxiety and depression: baseline (anxiety: r = .60; depression: r = .52); 3 months (anxiety: r = .55; depression: r = .55); 12 months (anxiety: r = .47; depression: r = .43); (all p < 0.001). Conclusions: First Seizure Clinic patients diagnosed with seizures do not appear to be at higher risk of affective disturbances or perceived stigma in the first 12 months, than those who are not diagnosed with seizures. Mood is a stronger indicator of patient well-being than diagnosis and this needs to be considered in patient management. (Supported by Australian Research Council and the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria.) 1 Sharon Penney, 1 Maureen Robertson, 1 Jackie Martini, 1 Thea Dupras, 1 Nancy Thornton, 1 Corinne McMillan, 1 Arlene Sadownyk, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Pediatrics, Janeway Child Health Centre, St John, NL, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Informal surveys reveal that in Canada (2003) there are no more than two dozen nurses working part or full-time in epilepsy. Three large Canadian provinces have no access to epilepsy nurses. We conducted a survey to assess the perceived role and value of specialized epilepsy nurses in the out-patient and in-patient setting. Methods: This was a cross-sectional survey involving epileptologists and epilepsy clinic patients across Canada. Epilepsy centers were identified from previous census. Physicians and patients answered a ten-item questionnaire. Physicians were asked about dedicated funding for epilepsy nurses, availability at their centre, specific roles, and a rating of importance of specialized epilepsy nurses. Patients were asked about type of interaction with the epilepsy nurse, perception of helpfulness and satisfaction, as well as health care setting. The project was approved by the internal Ethics Review Board. Results: At the time of this submission, 17 centres had replied, 41% had dedicated funding for a total of 25 epilepsy nurses. Their roles were multiple: 25?100% of their activities were clinical, 5?40% research and 5?30% purely inpatient. Seventy-six percent of the nurses were involved in educational activities, 65% were involved specialized seizure monitoring units, 58% were involved in coordinating pre-surgical evaluation, and 82% were involved in other patient care areas. All centers rated the role of the epilepsy nurse as highly important (7/7). At the time of this report, 92 patients replied. Ninety-six percent had contact with an epilepsy nurse, either directly, over the telephone or both. The most commonly reported benefit was enhancing communication between patients and neurologists (91%), understanding anti-seizure drugs (62%) and understanding epilepsy (54%). In addition, nurses assisted patients cope with epilepsy. Seventy-five percent (75%) rated this as 5/7 or higher, and 80% were highly satisfied with nursing intervention (5/7 or higher). Conclusions: There is a need for an increased role of dedicated epilepsy nurses at all levels of epilepsy care. Both physicians and patients rated patient education, assistance with care and organizational aspects as highly valuable. Unfortunately, many patients with epilepsy do not have access to this valuable resource. 1 Lena K.A. Räty, 2 Birgitta A. Söderfeldt, and 1 Bodil M. Wilde Larsson ( 1 Department of Nursing Science, Division for Health and Caring Sciences, Karlstad, Sweden ; and 2 Department of Neuroscience and Locomotion, Division of Neurology, Linköping, Sweden ) Rationale: The aim was to study the development of the epilepsy condition during adolescence and to identify factors that are of significant importance to achieve optimal psychosocial well-being and seizure-freedom or seizure reduction in adulthood. A further aim was to study quality of life in young adults. Methods: In 1999 151 adolescents (13 - 22 years) with epilepsy answered questionnaires on quality of life focusing on self-esteem, psychosocial and medical aspects. In 2004 a follow-up study was carried out with questionnaires mainly identical to those used in 1999. One questionnaire regarding quality of life (QLI) was added. The answering rate was 70%. No significant differences were found between participants and dropouts regarding variables measured 1999. Results: At present results regarding psychosocial factors and quality of life have been preliminary analysed. Compared with 1999 males reported a lower psychosocial well-being (p = 0.009) at the follow-up in 2004. The differences were most evident in patients aged 18?20 (?22) years. The lowest scores were reported on the sense of coherence, representing confidence in life by measuring manageability, comprehensiveness and meaning (p = 0.01). As five years ago the participants reported a positive self-esteem, however somewhat lower compared with the general population. The lowest quality of life was reported in the psychological/spiritual area and highest in relation to the family. Conclusions: The result indicates that psychosocial well-being, especially regarding the sense of coherence could be age-related in males with epilepsy, with the lowest point at 18 ? 20 years of age. 1 Maureen Robertson, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Although epilepsy has a high prevalence, misconceptions and lack of knowledge among the public are problematic. Grade XII students are at the brink of adulthood. This is an impressionable age when lifetime attitudes are often formed. We evaluated the effect of a structured educational intervention about epilepsy in this age group. Methods: Seventy grade XII students engage annually in one-day field trips with lectures and demonstrations by specialized epilepsy professionals, following a classroom education session on the brain. Pre-intervention (day before) and post-intervention (within 2?3 days), identical questionnaires were administered. Questionnaires contained 21 questions assessing general knowledge about epilepsy, attitudinal aspects, and personal knowledge of people with epilepsy. Sample questions include: ?Is epilepsy a form of mental illness?,??People who have epilepsy should not go out in public places in case they might have a seizure (True/False),??What should you do if you see a person you know having a seizure?? Results: In 2002 the average correct pre-test and post-test response rate was 65% and 87%, respectively. In 2005 the average correct pre-intervention and post-intervention response rate was 49% and 70% respectively (mean difference of 22.4 points, p < 0.001). Therefore knowledge and attitudes improved by this structured educational intervention. Free text analysis of written feedback by students revealed improved attitudes and empathy for people with epilepsy. Conclusions: Epilepsy centers can serve important educational functions in society, an often neglected activity in such specialized units. Educational interventions in epilepsy are meaningful and effective in adolescence. 1 Cheryl P. Shore, 2 Susan M. Perkins, and 1 Joan K. Austin ( 1 Nursing, Indiana University/Purdue University Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 Division of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Previous research suggests that children with epilepsy and their parents experience stressors related to the child's health condition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the Seizures and Epilepsy Education (SEE) program on quality of life, seizure condition management, and health care costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. Methods: A quasi-experimental design was used. Each participant served as his or her control. Most participants were referred by a school nurse or physician. Children were eligible to participate if they were at least 12 years of age, had a diagnosis of epilepsy, and could attend with at least one parent. Parents of children younger than 12 were also eligible to attend. Participants attended the SEE program, a two-day intensive psychoeducational program including content on medical and social aspects of epilepsy. Participants completed instruments to measure the variables of interest prior to program attendance, 4 weeks after attending, and 6 months after attendance. Statistical analysis was completed using SAS Version 9.1. Repeated measures ANCOVA, McNemar's tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were utitlized. Results: Representatives of 17 families participated. Parents significantly improved on many variables both 4 weeks and 6 months after program attendance. Outcomes with continued improvement 6 months after the program included parental perceptions of child behavior, child mental health, and family activities. Parents also demonstrated improved knowledge of epilepsy, less worry about the seizure condition, and had fewer unmet needs for information. Parents reported fewer nonscheduled health care visits and fewer child absences from school after SEE program attendance. Children's scores that remained significantly improved six months after the program included perceptions of their behavior, mental health, self-esteem, and family activities. Children maintained significantly lower levels of depressive symptoms and fewer fears about epilepsy six months after program attendance. Conclusions: The SEE program resulted in significant differences in quality of life indicators, measures of seizure condition management, and health care and related costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. The results are consistent with those from a previous study with adult participants (Helgeson et al., Epilepsia 1990; 31; 75?82). Health care providers can recommend the SEE program and reasonably expect that attendance will result in improved quality of life and seizure condition management. (Supported by The Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of Shire US, Inc.) 1 Deborah L. Shulman, 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Joseph I. Sirven ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, Mesa ) Rationale: Telephone triage is a major part of the role of the epilepsy nurse coordinator. Some calls are from patients, while others are received by a spouse or parent. A large portion of these calls includes: reporting seizures, requesting lab results, and difficulties with medications. Many times instructions are given to adjust medications based on lab results, seizures, or side effects reported. On many occasions the person calling is asked to call back and let us know how they are doing in relation to the instructions given. Unfortunately we do not always receive a call back with this information. Are family members more responsible than patients about calling back? A tracking system to follow up with patients on a timely basis when we did not hear back from them was initiated. This is important in order to improve health outcomes from interventions. Methods: The epilepsy coordinator is responsible for all phone calls for a team of 2 neurologists. All calls received during regular business hours were documented prospectively over a two-week period noting, 1. who called, 2. the purpose of the call, and 3. any directions that were given. All calls pertained to individuals with epilepsy. We did not include calls related to medication refill requests, appointments, scheduling monitoring admissions or calls that did not request a return call. We tabulated the number of calls from family members versus patients, and which group responded to the request to call back. Our intent was to establish better communication with all our patients and to identify which group required more of an effort to establish consistent and reliable communication. Results: A total of 37 phone calls were analyzed with 13 calls for medication problems, 10 to report seizures and 14 for test results. 46% of calls received were by family members and 54% by a patient. Phone calls for test results that led to medication changes represented the largest return rate of calls as instructed with 38% from the family group and 36% from the patients. 50% of families were likely to call back, while 52% of the patients did not. An equal number of spouses called, however, 40% of wives called back versus 20% of husbands. There were more telephone calls from females with a return rate of 55% versus 38% of males that returned calls. 3 out of the 5 calls received from parents were not returned. When we called patients we did not hear from, some stated they planned on calling but they ?did not want to be a bother.? Conclusions: It is important to know how patients are doing after therapy changes. The development of a tracking chart will enable us to reach out to each patient in a timely manner when they do not call back as instructed. Ensuring that health care provider recommendations are completed is essential to improve health outcomes. 1,2 Debbie Terry, 1,3 Juliann Paolicchi, and 1 Mary Karn ( 1 Neurology, Columbus Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH ; 2 Nursing, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; and 3 Pediatrics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy are frequently prescribed diazepam rectal gel for the acute treatment of seizures. In addition to home use, parents have asked other caregivers in day care and school settings to administer diazepam rectal gel. Parents have reported resistance and refusal by schools or day care providers to administer diazepam rectal gel. This may have a significant impact on the child's well being and the child and family's quality of life. The purpose of this study was to identify the frequency with which parents of children with epilepsy experience barriers to the use of diazepam rectal gel in daycare or school settings, what those barriers are, and what the impact is on the child and family. Methods: This was a prospective study conducted in a comprehensive epilepsy clinic. During a six month period, parents of children birth to 18 years were screened to participate in the study. Parents of children previously prescribed diazepam rectal gel were asked to complete an 18 item questionnaire. Results: Of 218 parents screened, 86 qualified for the study and 64 agreed to participate. Of the 64 parents who completed the questionnaire, 43 (68%) had asked their school or daycare to administer diazepam rectal gel. Overall, of those 43 parents, 35 (81%) reported that the school or day care agreed and 8 (19%) reported they refused to give diazepam rectal gel. Of these 43 parents, 16 (37%) asked MRDD schools of which 15 (94%) agreed and 1 (6%) refused; 21 (49%) asked public schools of which 17 (81%) agreed and 4 (19%) refused; and 6 (14%) asked private schools of which 3 (50%) agreed and 3 (50%) refused. There was a statistically significant difference in the responses between MRDD and private schools (p = .028). Reasons for refusal were: 5 (62%) not legally allowed to give diazepam rectal gel, 2 (25%) reasons were unknown, 2 (25%) worry that school staff would not know when to give the medication, 2 (25%) fear of embarrassing the child, and 1 (12.5%) fear of not being able to learn how to give the medication. Of the 8 parents whose school or day care refused to give diazepam rectal gel, 3 (42%) parents reported no effect on their family, but 3 (42%) parents worried their child would be hurt by a seizure, 1 (12.5%) parent kept her child at home, and 1 (12.5%) parent went to school with her child. Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that the majority of children prescribed diazepam rectal gel do not encounter barriers to its use in school and day care settings. However, children in private schools are significantly more likely to encounter barriers than are children in MRDD programs. The most frequently stated reason for refusal of the school or day care to give diazepam rectal gel was legal concerns. When schools refuse to give diazepam rectal gel, the quality of life of the child and family can be significantly impacted. 1 Rupprecht Thorbecke, 1 Ulrich Specht, 1 Joachim Czisch, and 2 Theodor W. May ( 1 Rehabilitation Unit, EvKB, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 2 Society for Epilepsy Research, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: A follow-up evaluation of patients of a specialized rehabilitation unit for people with epilepsy showed significant improvements for epilepsy related fear, emotional adaptation, physical and emotional health, however only weak effects for perceived stigma (PS) (3). Using data from the same cohort, this study aims to get more insight into the association of clinical, neuropsychological and psychosocial variables with PS. Methods: Ninety-six consecutive non-surgical patients with epilepsy (mean age, 35 years, 66% male) completed a validated questionnaire (PESOS) before admission (2, 3). PESOS includes a 4 item PS scale. During the rehabilitation program, all patients underwent comprehensive epileptological, neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluation. Associations between PS and clinical respectively psychosocial variables were tested with univariate methods (p < .05, two tailed). Results: Mean duration of epilepsy was 17.5 years. 24% of the patients were seizure-free (>6 months) on admission. 75% of the patients reported more or less pronounced PS. There were strong relations between PS and emotional adaptation, self esteem, and perceived restrictions because of one's epilepsy (all, p < .01). No association between PS and psychiatric co-morbidity or partnership was found. However PS was higher in patients with early onset of epilepsy, neuropsychological deficits or epilepsy related fears. Patients holding a driving license felt less stigmatized than those who did not. There were however no differences between patients who were actually driving/not driving because of their epilepsy. PS was associated with difficulties to address one's epilepsy when being with other persons, and with the number of friends and frequency of contacts. Conclusions: Our findings are in accordance with the literature, showing that PS is a common finding in chronic epilepsy, with strong associations of PS with emotional variables however only weak associations with seizure frequency (1). They underline the importance of holding a driving license and also of neuropsychological deficits for PS. Finally they demonstrate clearly that PS is associated with social isolation. REFERENCES 1.?Jacoby A. Epilepsy Behav 3, 6S2 (2002) S10?S20. 2.?May TW, et al. PESOS-Fragebogen fuer Menschen mit Epilepsie. Z Epileptol 2004;17(4):287?300. 3.?Specht U., et al. Epilepsia 2004;45 Suppl 7: 57 ( Supported by the society for epilepsy research , Bielefeld , Germany .) 1 Michael J. Wierzbinski, and 2 Paul C. Van Ness ( 1 Medicine Services/Epilepsy Outreach Program, Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX ; and 2 Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: About 25% of adult epilepsy patients have intractable seizures. Many are unable to work or retain a job due to seizures and other co-morbidities. Patients may apply for federal governmental assistance since they are unable to work. They apply thorough the Social Security Administration for one of two programs. One, is Social Supplemental Income (SSI) and or Social Security Disability Income (SSDI), the later if they have a consistent work history. After applying for disability it may take several years before benefits are approved. Additional information would be helpful to find out what variables may determine the time it may take for a positive ruling of disability for a patient's claim. Methods: Chart reviews and telephone interviews were conducted on 25 adult patients from an indigent, urban county hospital who were felt to be disabled. Patients who consistently attended an epilepsy clinic, report having seizures, and have applied for governmental disability benefits were included. Results: Disability information was obtained from 25 patients. 75% of the case had seizure onset before age 20. 36% of the patients had generalized tonic clonic seizures and 32% had generalized seizures along with complex partial seizures. 75% of the patients had a diagnostic EEG that confirmed their epilepsy diagnosis. 40% of the patients had other co-morbidities. 28% had a psychiatric diagnosis. 60% either had cognitive deficits or were diagnosed with borderline IQ and/or mental retardation. 50% had no work history and or a limited work history. Most were over the age of 40 and were minorities. At least, 60% of the patients had previously applied for benefits at least one other time. 30% of the patients who applied for SSI/SSDI were approved for disability within one year of application. 70% who applied for disability had to wait one to three years before they were approved. Conclusions: Applying for disability thorough the Social Security Administration is complex, confusing, and time consuming. Most patients in this study required assistance in applying for disability from an attorney or social worker. Some patients have filed multiple times for disability. Many are denied disability initially despite eventual approval. Several cases were told that they could work despite the physician's opinion. The wait has many psychosocial implications. Some patients give up trying to obtain disability and depend upon family for financial assistance. Finally, several patients had their disability claim turned down by disability attorneys/representatives. The later did not want to represent the patient's disability claim. There was no one to assist them thorough this process except their social worker. (Supported by Epilepsy Outreach Program is funded by a grant from the Department of State Health Services (Texas).)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gaharwar, Akhilesh K.
AU  - Arpanaei, Ayyoob
AU  - Andresen, Thomas L.
AU  - Dolatshahi-Pirouz, Alireza
TI  - 3D Biomaterial Microarrays for Regenerative Medicine: Current State-of-the-Art, Emerging Directions and Future Trends
JO  - Advanced Materials
JA  - Adv. Mater.
VL  - 28
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201503918
DO  - doi:10.1002/adma.201503918
SP  - 771
EP  - 781
KW  - 3D microarrays
KW  - microfabrication
KW  - tissue engineering
KW  - biomaterials
KW  - 3D printing
PY  - 2016
AB  - Three dimensional (3D) biomaterial microarrays hold enormous promise for regenerative medicine because of their ability to accelerate the design and fabrication of biomimetic materials. Such tissue-like biomaterials can provide an appropriate microenvironment for stimulating and controlling stem cell differentiation into tissue-specific lineages. The use of 3D biomaterial microarrays can, if optimized correctly, result in a more than 1000-fold reduction in biomaterials and cells consumption when engineering optimal materials combinations, which makes these miniaturized systems very attractive for tissue engineering and drug screening applications.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Estefan, Lianne Fuino
AU  - Armstead, Theresa L.
AU  - Rivera, Moira Shaw
AU  - Kearns, Megan C.
AU  - Carter, Denise
AU  - Crowell, Jessica
AU  - El-Beshti, Rasha
AU  - Daniels, Brandy
TI  - Enhancing the National Dialogue on the Prevention of Intimate Partner Violence
JO  - American Journal of Community Psychology
JA  - Am J Community Psychol
VL  - 63
IS  - 1-2
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajcp.12318
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajcp.12318
SP  - 153
EP  - 167
KW  - Intimate partner violence
KW  - Community-based prevention
KW  - Practice-based evidence
KW  - Social ecology
KW  - Qualitative research
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Little systematic information exists about how community-based prevention efforts at the state and local levels contribute to our knowledge of intimate partner violence (IPV) prevention. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) DELTA FOCUS program funds ten state domestic violence coalitions to engage in IPV primary prevention through approaches addressing the outer layers of the social ecology. This paper explored the ways in which DELTA FOCUS recipients have contributed to a national-level dialogue on IPV prevention. Previously undefined, the authors define national-level dialogue and retrospectively apply the CDC Science Impact Framework (SIF) to describe contributions DELTA FOCUS recipients made to it. Authors conducted document review and qualitative content analysis of recipient semi-annual progress reports from 2014 to 2016 (N = 40) using NVivo. A semi-structured coding scheme was applied across the five SIF domains: Creating Awareness, Catalyzing Action, Effecting Change, Disseminating Science, and Shaping the Future. All recipients sought to promote IPV prevention by communicating and sharing with non-CDC-funded state coalitions, national partners, and other IPV stakeholders information and resources accumulated through practice-based prevention efforts. Through implementing and disseminating their prevention work in myriad ways, DELTA FOCUS recipients are building practice-based evidence on community-based IPV prevention.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - van der Vleuten, Cees
AU  - Verhoeven, Bas
TI  - In-training assessment developments in postgraduate education in Europe
JO  - ANZ Journal of Surgery
JA  - ANZ J Surg
VL  - 83
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ans.12190
DO  - doi:10.1111/ans.12190
SP  - 454
EP  - 459
KW  - assessment
KW  - clinical performance
KW  - direct observation
KW  - portfolio
KW  - postgraduate training
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Aim This paper reviews changes that are underway in postgraduate medical education in various European countries. Training in the workplace is a very effective way of learning, but it has many imperfections. Changes in in-training assessment are proposed to remedy some of these. Assessment tools The focus is on a set of assessment tools for performance in authentic work-based contexts. These tools include direct performance measures of single clinical events (mini-Clinical Evaluation Exercise, Direct Observation of Practical Skills, Objective Structured Assessment of Technical Skills, Case-based Discussion, Mini-Peer Assessment Tool) and performance measures over a period of time (Multi-Source Feedback), based on judgement by one or more knowledgeable assessors (supervisor, other healthcare professional, patient, trainee himself/herself). Quantitative and qualitative information from single assessments is first and foremost used to promote learning, but also aggregated across a large sample of contexts and assessors in order to obtain an overall picture of a trainee's progress. Aggregating instruments, such as the portfolio, can be used to collect, support and assess outcomes in terms of competencies achieved. We will describe this set of instruments and provide theoretical background as well as our own practical experiences. Discussion A central message is that the utility of assessment methods lies very much in the (understanding of) the users. Therefore, our concern is more with the actual implementation of change than with the assessment technology per se. If we fail in our efforts to implement real change, postgraduate education may be at risk for bureaucratization and trivialization. We nevertheless are excited to see change happening in the right direction, but remain patient, not expecting very quick wins.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Goffinet, F.
AU  - Aboulker, D.
AU  - Subtil, D.
AU  - Uzan
AU  - Bréart, G.
AU  - Uzan, S.
TI  - WS12-02Systematic screening with a uterine Doppler in low-risk pregnant women followed by low-dose aspirin in cases with abnormal results: results of the two French multicenter randomised controlled trial
JO  - Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology
VL  - 16
IS  - s1
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-69.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-69.x
SP  - 21
EP  - 21
PY  - 2000
AB  - Objectives Two large multicenter randomised trials were performed in France to assess whether systematic screening with an artery uteroplacental Doppler (AUD) in low-risk pregnant women followed by the prescription of low-dose aspirin in cases with abnormal results reduced the incidence of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and of preeclampsia. Study design and population The first trial ?Seine Saint-Denis? (SSD) trial included 3317 low-risk pregnant women (multi and primigravidae) in 17 French maternity Hospitals and the second ?Erasme? trial included 1869 primigravidae in 12 centres. In the Doppler group, the AUD was performed between 20 and 24?weeks, and women with abnormal results received 100?mg of aspirin daily until the 35th week. Results In the Doppler group, 232 patients (15.7%) had an abnormal result in the SSD trial and 20% in the ERASME trial. The predictive value of the AUD was comparable to that reported in the studies of low-risk populations, but with a low sensitivity. Finally, IUGR, whether defined by the third or tenth percentile, and preeclampsia did not differ significantly between the treatment groups in both trials. Conclusions There is no proof justifying the recommendation of a systematic AUD in a low-risk population, even if abnormal results are followed by aspirin treatment and increase in prenatal surveillance. Future studies must assess predictive tests that can be performed early in pregnancy and can identify populations at very high risk of preeclampsia and IUGR. Only when all of these conditions are fulfilled can aspirin prove its efficacy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - SEEWALD, STEFAN
AU  - ANG, TIING LEONG
AU  - RICHTER, HUGO
AU  - TENG, KARL YU KIM
AU  - ZHONG, YAN
AU  - GROTH, STEFAN
AU  - OMAR, SALEM
AU  - SOEHENDRA, NIB
TI  - LONG-TERM RESULTS AFTER ENDOSCOPIC DRAINAGE AND NECROSECTOMY OF SYMPTOMATIC PANCREATIC FLUID COLLECTIONS
JO  - Digestive Endoscopy
VL  - 24
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1443-1661.2011.01162.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1443-1661.2011.01162.x
SP  - 36
EP  - 41
KW  - abscess
KW  - drainage
KW  - endoscopy
KW  - necrosis
KW  - pancreatic fluid collection
KW  - pseudocyst
PY  - 2012
AB  - Aims:? To determine the immediate and long-term results of endoscopic drainage and necrosectomy for symptomatic pancreatic fluid collections. Methods:? The data of 80 patients with symptomatic pancreatic fluid collections (mean diameter: 11.7?cm, range 3?20; pseudocysts: 24/80, abscess: 20/80, infected walled-off necrosis: 36/80) referred for endoscopic management from October 1997 to March 2008 were analyzed retrospectively. Results:? Endoscopic drainage techniques included endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided aspiration (2/80), EUS-guided transenteric drainage (70/80) and non-EUS-guided drainage across a spontaneous transenteric fistula (8/80). Endoscopic necrosectomy was carried out in 49/80 (abscesses: 14/20; infected necrosis: 35/36). Procedural complications were bleeding (12/80), perforation (7/80), portal air embolism (1/80) and Ogilvie Syndrome (1/80). Initial technical success was achieved in 78/80 (97.5%) and clinical resolution of the collections was achieved endoscopically in 67/80 (83.8%), with surgery required in 13/80 (perforation: four; endoscopically inaccessible areas: two; inadequate drainage: seven). Within 6?months five patients required surgery due to recurrent fluid collections; over a mean follow up of 31?months, surgery was required in four more patients due to recurrent collections as a consequence of underlying pancreatic duct abnormalities that could not be treated endoscopically. The long-term success of endoscopic treatment was 58/80 (72.5%). Conclusions:? Endoscopic drainage of symptomatic pancreatic fluid collections is safe and effective, with excellent immediate and long-term results. Endoscopic necrosectomy has a risk of serious complications. The underlying pancreatic duct abnormalities must be addressed to prevent recurrence of fluid collections.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Koukouvinos, C.
AU  - Parpoula, C.
TI  - A Penalized Wrapper Method for Screening Main Effects and Interactions in Supersaturated Designs
JO  - Quality and Reliability Engineering International
JA  - Qual. Reliab. Engng. Int.
VL  - 31
IS  - 8
SN  - 9781119261711
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/qre.1679
DO  - doi:10.1002/qre.1679
SP  - 1423
EP  - 1435
KW  - factor screening
KW  - generalized linear model
KW  - interaction
KW  - LASSO penalty
KW  - penalization
KW  - ridge penalty
KW  - supersaturated designs
KW  - support vector machines
PY  - 2015
AB  - Supersaturated designs (SSDs) are defined as fractional factorial designs whose experimental run size is smaller than the number of main effects to be estimated. The main goal using the class of SSDs is to identify the important effects efficiently, that is, at a minimal computational cost and time. Several methods for analyzing SSDs have been proposed in recent literature. While most of the literature on SSDs has focused on main effects models, the analysis of such designs involving models with interactions has not been developed to a great extent. In this paper, we attempt to relate several penalty and loss functions with support vector machines, with one main goal in mind, screening active effects in SSDs. In this spirit, we propose a penalized wrapper screening method for identifying in one stage the important main effects and two-factor interactions of two-level SSDs, by assuming generalized linear models. We also carry out simulation studies and a real data analysis to assess the performance of the proposed screening procedure, showing that the proposed method works satisfactorily. Copyright ? 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 
