
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pickles, K.J.
AU  - Madigan, J.E.
AU  - Torske, S.
AU  - Aleman, M.R.
TI  - Use of Squeeze-Induced Somnolence for Routine Plasma Administration in Healthy Neonatal Foals
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 46
IS  - S47
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12323_6
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12323_6
SP  - 4
EP  - 4
PY  - 2014
AB  - Reasons for performing study A nonchemical method of restraint to facilitate neonatal foal handling and minimally invasive procedures would be highly useful. Objectives To investigate squeeze-induced somnolence for providing adequate restraint of healthy neonatal foals for the purpose of plasma administration. Study design Prospective clinical study. Methods Squeeze-induced somnolence of neonatal foals was performed by use of a soft rope restraint as previously described [1] to allow intravenous catheterisation and plasma administration. Physiological and clinical parameters were monitored pre-, during and post squeeze-induced somnolence. Results Squeeze-induced somnolence and plasma administration was performed on 14 foals within the first day of life without any adverse effects. Mean time to recumbency during squeeze restraint was 53?s, mean time to stand and mean time to nurse from dam following release of restraint were 46?s and 163?s, respectively. Over 50% of foals gave some reaction to subcutaneous injection of local anaesthetic but only one foal reacted strongly. The restraint technique was performed without any difficulty in 8/14 foals, 5/14 foals became less somnolent latterly in the procedure (around 17?18?min) and one foal never became fully somnolent. Conclusions Squeeze-induced somnolence provides adequate restraint for plasma administration, without the need for sedation, in the majority of neonatal foals. Squeeze-induced somnolence can be used to allow nonchemical restraint of neonatal foals for routine procedures. Further refinement of the technique is required to maximise its potential usefulness. Ethical animal research:?The study was approved by the University of California Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Foals were included in the study with informed owner consent. Sources of funding:?Private anonymous donation. Competing interests:?None.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hsu, Hsin-Yun
AU  - Joos, Thomas O.
AU  - Koga, Hisashi
TI  - Multiplex microsphere-based flow cytometric platforms for protein analysis and their application in clinical proteomics – from assays to results
JO  - ELECTROPHORESIS
JA  - ELECTROPHORESIS
VL  - 30
IS  - 23
SN  - 0173-0835
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/elps.200900211
DO  - doi:10.1002/elps.200900211
SP  - 4008
EP  - 4019
KW  - Clinical proteomics/diagnostics
KW  - Microsphere-based flow cytometric platforms
KW  - Multiplexed assay
KW  - Suspension microarray
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Advances in high-throughput screening, together with rapid progress in genomic and proteomic sciences, have considerably stimulated the development of a variety of biomarker discovery tools and have contributed to the improvement of clinical diagnosis. Major challenges include the obtaining of high-quality data sets based on assays that are rapid, reliable, and inexpensive, but still highly sensitive and easy to perform. The microsphere-based flow cytometric technology is a platform that is currently entering the diagnostic market. This article reviews the development and the applications of microsphere-based flow cytometric platforms in basic and applied proteomic research, and discusses bead-based assays used in clinical applications.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hadj-Moussa, Hanane
AU  - Storey, Kenneth B.
TI  - Bringing nature back: using hibernation to reboot organ preservation
JO  - The FEBS Journal
JA  - FEBS J
VL  - 286
IS  - 6
SN  - 1742-464X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/febs.14683
DO  - doi:10.1111/febs.14683
SP  - 1094
EP  - 1100
KW  - biostasis
KW  - metabolic rate depression
KW  - microRNA
KW  - normothermic perfusion
KW  - organ transplantation
KW  - torpor
KW  - warm preservation
PY  - 2019
AB  - Recently, organ transplant therapy has received a major boost from a change in perspective ? a move away from damaging, cold static organ storage to the use of warm normothermic perfusion. The concept for warm preservation is one that has been borrowed from Nature, and it is only fitting that we go back to the wild for more ?tricks? to further improve warm organ stabilization. Current warm preservation strategies are designed to mimic natural conditions in the human body as closely as possible, but what if we could mimic these conditions while simultaneously inducing a reversible state of torpor that would further extend the viability window of donor organs? Indeed, the original driver for using cold organ storage was its ability to strongly reduce metabolic rate many-fold when organs were cooled from 37 to 5 °C. Herein, we discuss the adaptations that allow warm hibernators such as bears and lemurs (fellow primates) to naturally depress their metabolic rate and retreat into states of suspended animation, and how these can be applied to improve organ transplant therapy. Can we look to Nature for instructions to induce torpor in human organs? This article discusses the possibilities.
ER  - 

AU  - Hasday, Jeffrey D.
AU  - Thompson, Christopher
AU  - Singh, Ishwar S.
C7  - pp. 109-148
TI  - Fever, Immunity, and Molecular Adaptations
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cphy.c130019
DO  - doi:10.1002/cphy.c130019
SP  - 109-148
PY  - 2019
AB  - AbstractThe heat shock response (HSR) is an ancient and highly conserved process that is essential for coping with environmental stresses, including extremes of temperature. Fever is a more recently evolved response, during which organisms temporarily subject themselves to thermal stress in the face of infections. We review the phylogenetically conserved mechanisms that regulate fever and discuss the effects that febrile-range temperatures have on multiple biological processes involved in host defense and cell death and survival, including the HSR and its implications for patients with severe sepsis, trauma, and other acute systemic inflammatory states. Heat shock factor-1, a heat-induced transcriptional enhancer is not only the central regulator of the HSR but also regulates expression of pivotal cytokines and early response genes. Febrile-range temperatures exert additional immunomodulatory effects by activating mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades and accelerating apoptosis in some cell types. This results in accelerated pathogen clearance, but increased collateral tissue injury, thus the net effect of exposure to febrile range temperature depends in part on the site and nature of the pathologic process and the specific treatment provided. ? 2014 American Physiological Society. Compr Physiol 4:109-148, 2014.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ding, Yaping
AU  - Li, Wei
AU  - Zhang, Feng
AU  - Liu, Zehua
AU  - Zanjanizadeh Ezazi, Nazanin
AU  - Liu, Dongfei
AU  - Santos, Hélder A.
C7  - 1802852
TI  - Electrospun Fibrous Architectures for Drug Delivery, Tissue Engineering and Cancer Therapy
JO  - Advanced Functional Materials
JA  - Adv. Funct. Mater.
VL  - 29
IS  - 2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201802852
DO  - doi:10.1002/adfm.201802852
SP  - 1802852
KW  - cancer therapy
KW  - drug delivery
KW  - electrospinning
KW  - tissue engineering
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract The versatile electrospinning technique is recognized as an efficient strategy to deliver active pharmaceutical ingredients and has gained tremendous progress in drug delivery, tissue engineering, cancer therapy, and disease diagnosis. Numerous drug delivery systems fabricated through electrospinning regarding the carrier compositions, drug incorporation techniques, release kinetics, and the subsequent therapeutic efficacy are presented herein. Targeting for distinct applications, the composition of drug carriers vary from natural/synthetic polymers/blends, inorganic materials, and even hybrids. Various drug incorporation approaches through electrospinning are thoroughly discussed with respect to the principles, benefits, and limitations. To meet the various requirements in actual sophisticated in vivo environments and to overcome the limitations of a single carrier system, feasible combinations of multiple drug-inclusion processes via electrospinning could be employed to achieve programmed, multi-staged, or stimuli-triggered release of multiple drugs. The therapeutic efficacy of the designed electrospun drug-eluting systems is further verified in multiple biomedical applications and is comprehensively overviewed, demonstrating promising potential to address a variety of clinical challenges.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fahy, Niamh
AU  - Alini, Mauro
AU  - Stoddart, Martin J.
TI  - Mechanical stimulation of mesenchymal stem cells: Implications for cartilage tissue engineering
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 36
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.23670
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.23670
SP  - 52
EP  - 63
KW  - articular cartilage
KW  - biomechanics
KW  - mesenchymal stem cells
KW  - chondrogenesis
PY  - 2018
AB  - ABSTRACT Articular cartilage is a load-bearing tissue playing a crucial mechanical role in diarthrodial joints, facilitating joint articulation, and minimizing wear. The significance of biomechanical stimuli in the development of cartilage and maintenance of chondrocyte phenotype in adult tissues has been well documented. Furthermore, dysregulated loading is associated with cartilage pathology highlighting the importance of mechanical cues in cartilage homeostasis. The repair of damaged articular cartilage resulting from trauma or degenerative joint disease poses a major challenge due to a low intrinsic capacity of cartilage for self-renewal, attributable to its avascular nature. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are considered a promising cell type for cartilage replacement strategies due to their chondrogenic differentiation potential. Chondrogenesis of MSCs is influenced not only by biological factors but also by the environment itself, and various efforts to date have focused on harnessing biomechanics to enhance chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs. Furthermore, recapitulating mechanical cues associated with cartilage development and homeostasis in vivo, may facilitate the development of a cellular phenotype resembling native articular cartilage. The goal of this review is to summarize current literature examining the effect of mechanical cues on cartilage homeostasis, disease, and MSC chondrogenesis. The role of biological factors produced by MSCs in response to mechanical loading will also be examined. An in-depth understanding of the impact of mechanical stimulation on the chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs in terms of endogenous bioactive factor production and signaling pathways involved, may identify therapeutic targets and facilitate the development of more robust strategies for cartilage replacement using MSCs. ? 2017 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 36:52?63, 2018.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Koltai, Erika
AU  - Bori, Zoltán
AU  - Chabert, Clovis
AU  - Dubouchaud, Hervé
AU  - Naito, Hisashi
AU  - Machida, Shuichi
AU  - Davies, Kelvin JA
AU  - Murlasits, Zsolt
AU  - Fry, Andrew C
AU  - Boldogh, Istvan
AU  - Radak, Zsolt
TI  - SIRT1 may play a crucial role in overload-induced hypertrophy of skeletal muscle
JO  - The Journal of Physiology
JA  - J Physiol
VL  - 595
IS  - 11
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1113/JP273774
DO  - doi:10.1113/JP273774
SP  - 3361
EP  - 3376
KW  - anabolic
KW  - catabolic
KW  - hypertrophy
KW  - micro RNA
KW  - SIRT1
PY  - 2017
AB  - Key points Silent mating type information regulation 2 homologue 1 (SIRT1) activity and content increased significantly in overload-induced hypertrophy. SIRT1-mediated signalling through Akt, the endothelial nitric oxide synthase mediated pathway, regulates anabolic process in the hypertrophy of skeletal muscle. The regulation of catabolic signalling via forkhead box O 1 and protein ubiquitination is SIRT1 dependent. Overload-induced changes in microRNA levels regulate SIRT1 and insulin-like growth factor 1 signalling. Abstract Significant skeletal muscle mass guarantees functional wellbeing and is important for high level performance in many sports. Although the molecular mechanism for skeletal muscle hypertrophy has been well studied, it still is not completely understood. In the present study, we used a functional overload model to induce plantaris muscle hypertrophy by surgically removing the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles in rats. Two weeks of muscle ablation resulted in a 40% increase in muscle mass, which was associated with a significant increase in silent mating type information regulation 2 homologue 1 (SIRT1) content and activity (P < 0.001). SIRT1-regulated Akt, endothelial nitric oxide synthase and GLUT4 levels were also induced in hypertrophied muscles, and SIRT1 levels correlated with muscle mass, paired box protein 7 (Pax7), proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (Nampt) levels. Alternatively, decreased forkhead box O 1 (FOXO1) and increased K48 polyubiquitination also suggest that SIRT1 could be involved in the catabolic process of hypertrophy. Furthermore, increased levels of K63 and muscle RING finger 2 (MuRF2) protein could also be important enhancers of muscle mass. We report here that the levels of miR1 and miR133a decrease in hypertrophy and negatively correlate with muscle mass, SIRT1 and Nampt levels. Our results reveal a strong correlation between SIRT1 levels and activity, SIRT1-regulated pathways and overload-induced hypertrophy. These findings, along with the well-known regulatory roles that SIRT1 plays in modulating both anabolic and catabolic pathways, allow us to propose the hypothesis that SIRT1 may actually play a crucial causal role in overload-induced hypertrophy of skeletal muscle. This hypothesis will now require rigorous direct and functional testing.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mueller, Alan J.
AU  - Peffers, Mandy J.
AU  - Proctor, Carole J.
AU  - Clegg, Peter D.
TI  - Systems approaches in osteoarthritis: Identifying routes to novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 35
IS  - 8
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.23563
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.23563
SP  - 1573
EP  - 1588
KW  - osteoarthritis
KW  - systems biology
KW  - cartilage
KW  - modelling
PY  - 2017
AB  - ABSTRACT Systems orientated research offers the possibility of identifying novel therapeutic targets and relevant diagnostic markers for complex diseases such as osteoarthritis. This review demonstrates that the osteoarthritis research community has been slow to incorporate systems orientated approaches into research studies, although a number of key studies reveal novel insights into the regulatory mechanisms that contribute both to joint tissue homeostasis and its dysfunction. The review introduces both top-down and bottom-up approaches employed in the study of osteoarthritis. A holistic and multiscale approach, where clinical measurements may predict dysregulation and progression of joint degeneration, should be a key objective in future research. The review concludes with suggestions for further research and emerging trends not least of which is the coupled development of diagnostic tests and therapeutics as part of a concerted effort by the osteoarthritis research community to meet clinical needs. ? 2017 The Authors. Journal of Orthopaedic Research Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of Orthopaedic Research Society. J Orthop Res 35:1573?1588, 2017.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Li, Yan
AU  - Ye, Dewen
AU  - Li, Mingxi
AU  - Ma, Ming
AU  - Gu, Ning
TI  - Adaptive Materials Based on Iron Oxide Nanoparticles for Bone Regeneration
JO  - ChemPhysChem
JA  - ChemPhysChem
VL  - 19
IS  - 16
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cphc.201701294
DO  - doi:10.1002/cphc.201701294
SP  - 1965
EP  - 1979
KW  - iron oxide
KW  - magnetic properties
KW  - nanotechnology
KW  - osteogenic differentiation
KW  - regenerative medicine
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract The paper provides a brief overview of the use of iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) in the areas of bone regenerative medicine. Reconstruction of bone defects caused by trauma, non-union, and bone tumor excision, still faces many challenges despite the intense investigations and advancement in bone-tissue engineering and bone regeneration over the past decades. IONPs have promising prospects in this field due to their controlled responsive characteristics in specific external magnetic fields and have been of great interest during the last few years. This Minireview aims to summarize the relevant progress and describes the following five aspects: (i) The general introduction of IONPs, with a focus on the magnetic properties as the base of application; (ii) using IONPs as tools to study and control stem cells for better treatment efficacy in stem-cell-based bone defect repair; (iii) the use of IONPs and their complexes in the delivery of therapeutic agents, including chemical drug molecules, growth factors, and genetic materials, to promote osteogenesis-related cell function and differentiation, healthy bone tissue growth, and functional reconstruction; (iv) magneto-mechanical actuation in the regulation of cells distribution, mechano-transduction membrane receptors activation, and mechanosensitive signaling pathways regulation, and (v) fabrication, characteristics, and in?vitro and in?vivo osteogenic effects of magnetic composite bone scaffolds. Ongoing prospects are also discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Table of Contents
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 46
IS  - S47
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12323
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12323
SP  - i
EP  - iii
PY  - 2014
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Denhardt, David T.
TI  - Effect of stress on human biology: Epigenetics, adaptation, inheritance, and social significance
JO  - Journal of Cellular Physiology
JA  - J Cell Physiol
VL  - 233
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.25837
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcp.25837
SP  - 1975
EP  - 1984
KW  - drugs
KW  - early life experiences
KW  - epigenetics
KW  - social life
KW  - stress
PY  - 2018
AB  - I present a brief introduction to epigenetics, focused primarily on methylation of the genome and various regulatory RNAs, modifications of associated histones, and their importance in enabling us to adapt to real and changing environmental, developmental, and social circumstances. Following this is a more extensive overview of how it impacts our inheritance, our entire life (which changes as we age), and how we interact with others. Throughout, I emphasize the critical influence that stress, of many varieties exerts, via epigenetic means, on much of how we live and survive, mostly in the brain. I end with a short section on multigenerational transmission, drugs, and the importance of both social life and early life experiences in the development of adult diseases. There will be nothing about cancer. Although epigenetics is critical in that field, it is a whole different cobweb of complications (some involving stress).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tsai, Hsiang-Lin
AU  - Miao, Zhi-Feng
AU  - Chen, Yi-Ting
AU  - Huang, Ching-Wen
AU  - Yeh, Yung-Sung
AU  - Yang, I-Ping
AU  - Wang, Jaw-Yuan
TI  - miR-148a inhibits early relapsed colorectal cancers and the secretion of VEGF by indirectly targeting HIF-1α under non-hypoxia/hypoxia conditions
JO  - Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
JA  - J Cell Mol Med
VL  - 23
IS  - 5
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jcmm.14257
DO  - doi:10.1111/jcmm.14257
SP  - 3572
EP  - 3582
KW  - colorectal cancers
KW  - early relapse
KW  - HIF-1α
KW  - miR-148a
KW  - non-hypoxia/hypoxia conditions
KW  - VEGF
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is correlated with angiogenesis and early relapse of colorectal cancer (CRC). This study investigated the role of miR-148a in the regulation of VEGF/angiogenesis and early relapse of CRC. We established a stable clone with miR-148a expression in HCT116 and HT29 cell lines and created a hypoxic condition by using CoCl2 to determine the underlying mechanism of miR-148a. The effects of miR-148a on the phosphoryl-ERK (pERK)/hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α)/VEGF pathway were evaluated through Western blotting and the inhibitory effect of miR-148a on angiogenesis was demonstrated through a tube formation assay. Sixty-three CRC tissues (28 early relapse and 35 non-early relapse) were analysed to assess the relationship between miR-148a and HIF-1α/VEGF. The protein expression of pERK/HIF-1α/VEGF in HCT116 and HT29 cells was significantly decreased by miR-148a (all P < 0.05). The protein expression of VEGF/HIF-1α was strongly inversely associated with the expression of miR-148a in the 63 CRC tissue samples (all P < 0.05). Tube formation assay demonstrated that miR-148a significantly obliterated angiogenesis. miR-148a suppresses VEGF through down-regulation of the pERK/HIF-1α/VEGF pathway and might lead to the inhibition of angiogenesis; miR-148a down-regulation increased the early relapse rate of CRC. This demonstrates that miR-148a is a potential diagnostic and therapeutic target.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Denham, J.
C7  - e12881
TI  - Exercise and epigenetic inheritance of disease risk
JO  - Acta Physiologica
JA  - Acta Physiol
VL  - 222
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/apha.12881
DO  - doi:10.1111/apha.12881
SP  - e12881
KW  - disease prevention
KW  - DNA methylation
KW  - epigenome
KW  - exercise training
KW  - microRNA
KW  - sperm
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Epigenetics is the study of gene expression changes that occur in the absence of altered genotype. Current evidence indicates a role for environmentally induced alterations to epigenetic modifications leading to health and disease changes across multiple generations. This phenomenon is called intergenerational or transgenerational epigenetic inheritance of health or disease. Environmental insults, in the form of toxins, plastics and particular dietary interventions, perturb the epigenetic landscape and influence the health of F1 through to F4 generations in rodents. There is, however, the possibility that healthy lifestyles and environmental factors, such as exercise training, could lead to favourable, heritable epigenetic modifications that augment transcriptional programmes protective of disease, including metabolic dysfunction, heart disease and cancer. The health benefits conferred by regular physical exercise training are unquestionable, yet many of the molecular changes may have heritable health implications for future generations. Similar to other environmental factors, exercise modulates the epigenome of somatic cells and researchers are beginning to study exercise epigenetics in germ cells. The germ cell epigenetic modifications affected by exercise offer a molecular mechanism for the inheritance of health and disease risk. The aims of this review are to: (i) provide an update on the expanding field of exercise epigenetics; (ii) offer an overview of data on intergenerational/transgenerational epigenetic inheritance of disease by environmental insults; (iii) to discuss the potential of exercise-induced intergenerational inheritance of health and disease risk; and finally, outline potential mechanisms and avenues for future work on epigenetic inheritance through exercise.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Marchesi, Nicoletta
AU  - Osera, Cecilia
AU  - Fassina, Lorenzo
AU  - Amadio, Marialaura
AU  - Angeletti, Francesca
AU  - Morini, Martina
AU  - Magenes, Giovanni
AU  - Venturini, Letizia
AU  - Biggiogera, Marco
AU  - Ricevuti, Giovanni
AU  - Govoni, Stefano
AU  - Caorsi, Salvatore
AU  - Pascale, Alessia
AU  - Comincini, Sergio
TI  - Autophagy Is Modulated in Human Neuroblastoma Cells Through Direct Exposition to Low Frequency Electromagnetic Fields
JO  - Journal of Cellular Physiology
JA  - J. Cell. Physiol.
VL  - 229
IS  - 11
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.24631
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcp.24631
SP  - 1776
EP  - 1786
PY  - 2014
AB  - In neurogenerative diseases, comprising Alzheimer?s (AD), functional alteration in autophagy is considered one of the pathological hallmarks and a promising therapeutic target. Epidemiological investigations on the possible causes undergoing these diseases have suggested that electromagnetic fields (EMF) exposition can contribute to their etiology. On the other hand, EMF have therapeutic implications in reactivating neuronal functionality. To partly clarify this dualism, the effect of low-frequency EMF (LF-EMF) on the modulation of autophagy was investigated in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, which were also subsequently exposed to A? peptides, key players in AD. The results primarily point that LF-EMF induce a significant reduction of microRNA 30a (miR-30a) expression with a concomitant increase of Beclin1 transcript (BECN1) and its corresponding protein. Furthermore, LF-EMF counteract the induced miR-30a up-regulation in the same cells transfected with miR-30a mimic precursor molecules and, on the other side, rescue Beclin1 expression after BECN1 siRNA treatment. The expression of autophagy-related markers (ATG7 and LC3B-II) as well as the dynamics of autophagosome formation were also visualized after LF-EMF exposition. Finally, different protocols of repeated LF-EMF treatments were assayed to contrast the effects of A? peptides in vitro administration. Overall, this research demonstrates, for the first time, that specific LF-EMF treatments can modulate in vitro the expression of a microRNA sequence, which in turn affects autophagy via Beclin1 expression. Taking into account the pivotal role of autophagy in the clearance of protein aggregates within the cells, our results indicate a potential cytoprotective effect exerted by LF-EMF in neurodegenerative diseases such as AD. J. Cell. Physiol. 229: 1776?1786, 2014. ? 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

AU  - Horwood, Nicole J.
AU  - Dazzi, Francesco
AU  - Zaher, Walid
AU  - Kassem, Moustapha
C7  - pp. 332-357
TI  - Mesenchymal Stem Cells: Application for Immunomodulation and Tissue Repair
SN  - 9781405198257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118498453.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118498453.ch16
SP  - 332-357
KW  - mesenchymal stem cells
KW  - immunosuppression
KW  - tissue engineering
KW  - graft versus host disease
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are stem cell populations present among the bone marrow stroma and a number of other tissues that are capable of multi-lineage differentiation into mesoderm-type cells such as osteoblasts, adipocytes and chondrocytes. MSC provide supportive stroma for growth and differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and hematopoiesis. These cells have been described as important immunoregulators due to their ability to suppress T cells proliferation. MSC can also directly contribute to tissue repair by migrating to sites of injury and providing a source of cells for differentiation and/or providing bystander support for resident stromal cells. This chapter discusses the cellular and molecular properties of MSC, the mechanisms by which they can modulate immune responses and the clinical applications of MSC in disorders such as graft-versus-host disease and aplastic anaemia. The role of MSC in the treatment of autoimmune disorders as well as their potential in the arena of tissue repair and a view of what the future clinical applications of MSC might be is outlined in this chapter.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Simchovitz, Alon
AU  - Heneka, Michael T.
AU  - Soreq, Hermona
TI  - Personalized genetics of the cholinergic blockade of neuroinflammation
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
JA  - J. Neurochem.
VL  - 142
IS  - S2
SN  - 9781405198257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jnc.13928
DO  - doi:10.1111/jnc.13928
SP  - 178
EP  - 187
KW  - acetylcholinesterase (AChE)
KW  - Alzheimer's disease
KW  - genetics
KW  - neuroinflammation
KW  - single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Acetylcholine signaling is essential for cognitive functioning and blocks inflammation. To maintain homeostasis, cholinergic signaling is subjected to multi-leveled and bidirectional regulation by both proteins and non-coding microRNAs (?CholinomiRs?). CholinomiRs coordinate the cognitive and inflammatory aspects of cholinergic signaling by targeting major cholinergic transcripts including the acetylcholine hydrolyzing enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Notably, AChE inhibitors are the only currently approved line of treatment for Alzheimer's disease patients. Since cholinergic signaling blocks neuroinflammation which is inherent to Alzheimer's disease, genomic changes modifying AChE's properties and its susceptibility to inhibitors and/or to CholinomiRs regulation may affect the levels and properties of inflammasome components such as NLRP3. This calls for genomic-based medicine approaches based on genotyping of both coding and non-coding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the genes involved in cholinergic signaling. An example is a SNP in a recognition element for the primate-specific microRNA-608 within the 3? untranslated region of the AChE transcript. Carriers of the minor allele of that SNP present massively elevated brain AChE levels, increased trait anxiety and inflammation, accompanied by perturbed CholinomiR-608 regulatory networks and elevated prefrontal activity under exposure to stressful insults. Several additional SNPs in the AChE and other cholinergic genes await further studies, and might likewise involve different CholinomiRs and pathways including those modulating the initiation and progression of neurodegenerative diseases. CholinomiRs regulation of the cholinergic system thus merits in-depth interrogation and is likely to lead to personalized medicine approaches for achieving better homeostasis in health and disease. This is an article for the special issue XVth International Symposium on Cholinergic Mechanisms.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - McCue, M. E.
AU  - McCoy, A. M.
TI  - Harnessing big data for equine health
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 51
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405198257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.13080
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.13080
SP  - 429
EP  - 432
PY  - 2019
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hao, Zi-Chen
AU  - Lu, Jun
AU  - Wang, Shan-Zheng
AU  - Wu, Hao
AU  - Zhang, Yun-Tong
AU  - Xu, Shuo-Gui
C7  - e12359
TI  - Stem cell-derived exosomes: A promising strategy for fracture healing
JO  - Cell Proliferation
JA  - Cell Prolif
VL  - 50
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781405198257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cpr.12359
DO  - doi:10.1111/cpr.12359
SP  - e12359
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Objectives To describe the biological characteristics of exosomes and to summarize the current status of stem cell-derived exosomes on fracture healing. Meanwhile, future challenges, limitations and perspectives are also discussed. Methods Search and analyze the related articles in pubmed database through the multi-combination of keywords like ?stem cells?,?exosomes?,?bone regeneration? and ?fracture healing?. Conclusion Stem cell-derived exosome therapy for fracture healing has been enjoying popularity and is drawing increasing attention. This strategy helps to promote proliferation and migration of cells, as well as osteogenesis and angiogenesis, in the process of bone formation. Although the exact mechanisms remain elusive, exosomal miRNAs seem to play vital roles. Future studies are required to solve multiple problems before clinical application, including comprehensive and thorough understanding of exosomes, the exact roles of exosomes in regulating bone formation, and the optimal source, dose and frequency of treatment, as well as technical and safety issues. Moreover, studies based on fracture models of large animals are could offer guidance and are in demand.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - LeGolvan, Mark P.
AU  - Resnick, Murray
TI  - Pathobiology of colorectal cancer hepatic metastases with an emphasis on prognostic factors
JO  - Journal of Surgical Oncology
JA  - J. Surg. Oncol.
VL  - 102
IS  - 8
SN  - 9781405198257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jso.21817
DO  - doi:10.1002/jso.21817
SP  - 898
EP  - 908
KW  - angiogenesis
KW  - cadherins
KW  - epithelial–mesenchymal transformation EMT
KW  - integrins
KW  - miRNA
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer related death in the United States. The majority of these deaths are due to metastasis, with the liver easily accounting as the most common site of deposit. While there are multiple steps in the CRC hepatic metastatic cascade, this review attempts to summarize the different processes involved, focusing on the most recent discoveries, as well as the associated effects in relation to prognosis. J. Surg. Oncol. 2010;102:898?908. ? 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Acharya, Sreemukta
AU  - Hartmann, Mark
AU  - Erhardt, Sylvia
C7  - e1435
TI  - Chromatin-associated noncoding RNAs in development and inheritance
JO  - WIREs RNA
JA  - WIREs RNA
VL  - 8
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781405198257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/wrna.1435
DO  - doi:10.1002/wrna.1435
SP  - e1435
PY  - 2017
AB  - Noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) have emerged as crucial players in chromatin regulation. Their diversity allows them to partake in the regulation of numerous cellular processes across species. During development, long and short ncRNAs act in conjunction with each other where long ncRNAs (lncRNAs) are best understood in establishing appropriate gene expression patterns, while short ncRNAs (sRNAs) are known to establish constitutive heterochromatin and suppress mobile elements. Additionally, increasing evidence demonstrates roles of sRNAs in several typically lncRNA-mediated processes such as dosage compensation, indicating a complex regulatory network of noncoding RNAs. Together, various ncRNAs establish many mitotically heritable epigenetic marks during development. Additionally, they participate in mechanisms that regulate maintenance of these epigenetic marks during the lifespan of the organism. Interestingly, some epigenetic traits are transmitted to the next generation(s) via paramutations or transgenerational inheritance mediated by sRNAs. In this review, we give an overview of the various functions and regulations of ncRNAs and the mechanisms they employ in the establishment and maintenance of epigenetic marks and multi-generational transmission of epigenetic traits. WIREs RNA 2017, 8:e1435. doi: 10.1002/wrna.1435 This article is categorized under: RNA Interactions with Proteins and Other Molecules > Protein?RNA Interactions: Functional Implications Regulatory RNAs/RNAi/Riboswitches > Regulatory RNAs RNA in Disease and Development > RNA in Development
ER  - 
