
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yurube, Takashi
AU  - Ito, Masaaki
AU  - Kakiuchi, Yuji
AU  - Kuroda, Ryosuke
AU  - Kakutani, Kenichiro
C7  - e1082
TI  - Autophagy and mTOR signaling during intervertebral disc aging and degeneration
JO  - JOR SPINE
JA  - JOR Spine
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jsp2.1082
DO  - doi:10.1002/jsp2.1082
SP  - e1082
KW  - aging
KW  - autophagy
KW  - disc degeneration
KW  - intervertebral disc
KW  - mTOR signaling
KW  - spine
AB  - Abstract Degenerative disc disease is a highly prevalent, global health problem that represents the primary cause of back pain and is associated with neurological disorders, including radiculopathy, myelopathy, and paralysis, resulting in worker disability and socioeconomic burdens. The intervertebral disc is the largest avascular organ in the body, and degeneration is suspected to be linked to nutritional deficiencies. Autophagy, the process through which cells self-digest and recycle damaged components, is an important cell survival mechanism under stress conditions, especially nutrient deprivation. Autophagy is negatively controlled by the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. mTOR is a serine/threonine kinase that detects nutrient availability to trigger the activation of cell growth and protein synthesis pathways. Thus, resident disc cells may utilize autophagy and mTOR signaling to cope with harsh low-nutrient conditions, such as low glucose, low oxygen, and low pH. We performed rabbit and human disc cell and tissue studies to elucidate the involvement and roles played by autophagy and mTOR signaling in the intervertebral disc. In vitro serum and nutrient deprivation studies resulted in decreased disc cell proliferation and metabolic activity and increased apoptosis and senescence, in addition to increased autophagy. The selective RNA interference-mediated and pharmacological inhibition of mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) was protective against inflammation-induced disc cellular apoptosis, senescence, and extracellular matrix catabolism, through the induction of autophagy and the activation of the Akt-signaling network. Although temsirolimus, a rapamycin derivative with improved water solubility, was the most effective mTORC1 inhibitor tested, dual mTOR inhibitors, capable of blocking multiple mTOR complexes, did not rescue disc cells. In vivo, high levels of mTOR-signaling molecule expression and phosphorylation were observed in human intermediately degenerated discs and decreased with age. A mechanistic understanding of autophagy and mTOR signaling can provide a basis for the development of biological therapies to treat degenerative disc disease.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jaeschke, Hartmut
TI  - Reactive oxygen and mechanisms of inflammatory liver injury: Present concepts
JO  - Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology
VL  - 26
IS  - s1
SN  - 0815-9319
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-1746.2010.06592.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1440-1746.2010.06592.x
SP  - 173
EP  - 179
KW  - alarmins
KW  - apoptosis
KW  - cholestasis
KW  - cytokines
KW  - high mobility group box -1
KW  - hypochlorite
KW  - ischemia-reperfusion
KW  - Kupffer cells
KW  - lipid peroxidation
KW  - neutrophils
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Liver cell death induced by stresses such as ischemia-reperfusion, cholestasis and drug toxicity can trigger a sterile inflammatory response with activation of innate immune cells through release of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). A similar inflammatory response can be induced by pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) such as endotoxin. Both DAMPs and PAMPs activate through toll-like receptors the resident macrophages (Kupffer cells) and recruit activated neutrophils and monocytes into the liver. Central to this inflammatory response is promotion of reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation by these phagocytes. ROS are the principal toxic mediators by which inflammatory cells kill their targets, e.g. bacteria during host defense but also hepatocytes and other liver cells. The mechanism of ROS-induced cell killing during inflammation involves the promotion of mitochondrial dysfunction through an intracellular oxidant stress in hepatocytes leading mainly to oncotic necrosis and less apoptosis. The additional release of cell contents amplifies the inflammatory injury. However, an inflammatory oxidant stress insufficient to directly cause cell damage can induce transcription of stress defence genes including antioxidant genes. This preconditioning effect of ROS enhances the resistance against future inflammatory oxidant stress and promotes the initiation of tissue repair processes. Despite the substantial progress in our understanding of mechanisms of inflammatory liver injury during the last decade, more research is necessary to better understand the role of ROS in acute liver inflammation and to develop clinically applicable therapeutic strategies that selectively target the detrimental effects of oxidant stress without compromising the vital function of ROS in host defense.
ER  - 

AU  - Hasday, Jeffrey D.
AU  - Thompson, Christopher
AU  - Singh, Ishwar S.
C7  - pp. 109-148
TI  - Fever, Immunity, and Molecular Adaptations
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cphy.c130019
DO  - doi:10.1002/cphy.c130019
SP  - 109-148
PY  - 2011
AB  - AbstractThe heat shock response (HSR) is an ancient and highly conserved process that is essential for coping with environmental stresses, including extremes of temperature. Fever is a more recently evolved response, during which organisms temporarily subject themselves to thermal stress in the face of infections. We review the phylogenetically conserved mechanisms that regulate fever and discuss the effects that febrile-range temperatures have on multiple biological processes involved in host defense and cell death and survival, including the HSR and its implications for patients with severe sepsis, trauma, and other acute systemic inflammatory states. Heat shock factor-1, a heat-induced transcriptional enhancer is not only the central regulator of the HSR but also regulates expression of pivotal cytokines and early response genes. Febrile-range temperatures exert additional immunomodulatory effects by activating mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades and accelerating apoptosis in some cell types. This results in accelerated pathogen clearance, but increased collateral tissue injury, thus the net effect of exposure to febrile range temperature depends in part on the site and nature of the pathologic process and the specific treatment provided. ? 2014 American Physiological Society. Compr Physiol 4:109-148, 2014.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sriskandan, S
AU  - Altmann, DM
TI  - The immunology of sepsis
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 214
IS  - 2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.2274
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.2274
SP  - 211
EP  - 223
KW  - sepsis
KW  - Group A steptococci
KW  - superantigen
KW  - gene polymorphism
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Sepsis, the systemic inflammatory response to infection, is considered the major cause of death among critically ill patients in the developed world. While there is a general view that this reflects contributions from both the pathogen and the host with respect to an inappropriate inflammatory response, there is a lack of agreement as to the key immune mechanisms. This has been reflected in the diverse range of immunotherapies tested in clinical trials, often with rather marginal effects. The case has been made for a pathogenic role of excessive immunity, the so-called ?cytokine storm?, and for a role of too little immunity through immune paralysis. Apoptosis is implicated as a key mechanism in both this immune paralysis and the multi-organ failure that is a feature of severe sepsis. A number of polymorphisms have been implicated in susceptibility to sepsis, including cytokine genes, HLA class II and caspase-12. In this review we focus in particular on the role of group A streptococci in severe sepsis. Here the effect of bacterial superantigens appears to be a correlate of inflammatory activation, although the precise evolutionary role of the superantigens remains unclear. Copyright ? 2007 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Loell, I.
AU  - Lundberg, I. E.
TI  - Can muscle regeneration fail in chronic inflammation: a weakness in inflammatory myopathies?
JO  - Journal of Internal Medicine
VL  - 269
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2796.2010.02334.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2796.2010.02334.x
SP  - 243
EP  - 257
KW  - cytokines
KW  - eicosanoids
KW  - inflammation
KW  - inflammatory myopathies
KW  - myositis
KW  - pathogenesis
KW  - physical exercise
KW  - regeneration
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract.? Loell I, Lundberg IE (Karolinska University Hospital, Solna, Stockholm, Sweden) Can muscle regeneration fail in chronic inflammation: a weakness in inflammatory myopathies? (Review) J Intern Med 2010; 269: 243?257. Idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIMs), collectively termed myositis, include three major subgroups: polymyositis, dermatomyositis and inclusion body myositis. IIMs are characterized clinically by muscle weakness and reduced muscle endurance preferentially affecting the proximal skeletal muscle. In typical cases, inflammatory cell infiltrates and proinflammatory cytokines, alarmins and eicosanoids are present in muscle tissue. Treatment with glucocorticoids and other immunosuppressants results in improved performance, but complete recovery is rarely seen. The mechanisms that cause muscle weakness and reduced muscle endurance are multi-factorial, and different mechanisms predominate in different phases of disease. It is likely that a combination of immune-mediated and nonimmune-mediated mechanisms contributes to clinical muscle symptoms. Immune-mediated mechanisms include immune cell-mediated muscle fibre necrosis as well as direct effects of various cytokines on muscle fibre contractility. Among the nonimmune-mediated mechanisms, an acquired metabolic myopathy and so-called endoplasmic reticulum stress may be important. There is also a possibility of defective repair mechanisms, with an influence of both disease-related factors and glucocorticoid treatment. Several proinflammatory molecules observed in muscle tissue of myositis patients, including interleukin (IL)-1, IL-15, tumour necrosis factor, high-mobility group box-1 and eicosanoids, have a role in muscle fibre regeneration, and blocking these molecule may impair muscle repair and recovery. The delicate balance between immunosuppressive treatment to downregulate proinflammatory molecules and an inhibitory effect on muscle fibre regeneration needs to be further understood. This would also be relevant for other chronic inflammatory diseases.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Oke, Stacey L.
AU  - Tracey, Kevin J.
TI  - From CNI-1493 to the immunological homunculus: physiology of the inflammatory reflex
JO  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
JA  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
VL  - 83
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1189/jlb.0607363
DO  - doi:10.1189/jlb.0607363
SP  - 512
EP  - 517
KW  - cytokine
KW  - TNF
KW  - inflammation
KW  - cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway
PY  - 2008
AB  - The inflammatory reflex is a neurophysiological mechanism that regulates the immune system. The efferent branch of the reflex the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway, which inhibits inflammation by suppressing cytokine synthesis via release of acetylcholine in organs of the reticuloendothelial system, including the spleen, liver, and gastrointestinal tract. Acetylcholine binds to α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors expressed by macrophages and other cytokine-producing cells. Receptor-ligand engagement suppresses proinflammatory cytokines and prevents tissue damage. Herein is a review of some of the experimental studies that define the inflammatory reflex and its anatomic and physiologic components.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fedson, David S.
TI  - Confronting the next influenza pandemic with anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory agents: why they are needed and how they might work
JO  - Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses
VL  - 3
IS  - 4
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1750-2659.2009.00090.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1750-2659.2009.00090.x
SP  - 129
EP  - 142
KW  - Host response
KW  - influenza
KW  - pandemic
KW  - peroxisome proliferator activator receptor agonists
KW  - statins
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract? Despite the best efforts of influenza scientists, companies and health officials to prepare for the next pandemic, most of the world?s people will not have access to affordable supplies of vaccines and antiviral agents. They will have to rely on 19th century public health ?technologies? to see them through. In the 21st century, science ought to be able to provide something better. Influenza scientists study the molecular characteristics of influenza viruses and their signaling effects in cell culture and animal models of infection. While these studies have been enormously informative, they have been unable to explain the system-wide effects of influenza on the host, the increased mortality of younger adults in the 1918 influenza pandemic and the much lower mortality rates in children who were more commonly infected with the 1918 virus. Experiments by non-influenza scientists have defined common cell signaling pathways for acute lung injury caused by different agents, including inactivated H5N1 influenza virus. These pathways include several molecular targets that are up-regulated in acute lung injury and down-regulated by anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory agents, including statins, fibrates, and glitazones. These agents also help reverse the mitochondrial dysfunction that accompanies multi-organ failure, something often seen in fatal Influenza. Observational studies suggest that statins are beneficial in treating patients with pneumonia (there are no such studies for fibrates and glitazones). Other studies suggest that these agents might be able to ?roll back? the self-damaging host response of young adults to the less damaging response of children and thus save lives. Research is urgently needed to determine whether these and other agents that modify the host response might be useful in managing H5N1 influenza and the next pandemic.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ward, Peter A.
TI  - New approaches to the study of sepsis
JO  - EMBO Molecular Medicine
JA  - EMBO Mol Med
VL  - 4
IS  - 12
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/emmm.201201375
DO  - doi:10.1002/emmm.201201375
SP  - 1234
EP  - 1243
KW  - clinical trials
KW  - complement
KW  - interventions
KW  - mediators
KW  - sepsis
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Models of sepsis have been instructive in understanding the sequence of events in animals and, to an extent, in humans with sepsis. Events developing early in sepsis suggest that a hyperinflammatory state exists, accompanied by a buildup of oxidants in tissues reflective of a redox imbalance. Development of immunosuppression and degraded innate and adaptive immune responses are well-established complications of sepsis. In addition, there is robust activation of the complement system, which contributes to the harmful effects of sepsis. These events appear to be associated with development of multiorgan failure. The relevance of animal models of sepsis to human sepsis and the failure of human clinical trials are discussed, together with suggestions as to how clinical trial design might be improved.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Frasca, L.
AU  - Lande, R.
TI  - Toll-like receptors in mediating pathogenesis in systemic sclerosis
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
JA  - Clin Exp Immunol
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cei.13426
DO  - doi:10.1111/cei.13426
KW  - fibrosis
KW  - immune cells
KW  - interferon signature
KW  - systemic sclerosis
KW  - Toll-like receptor
AB  - Summary Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are evolutionarily conserved receptors essential for the host defence against pathogens. Both immune and non-immune cells can express TLRs, although at different levels. Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a chronic disease in which autoimmunity, dysregulated profibrotic mediator release and activation of fibroblasts lead to dysregulated collagen deposition and fibrosis. There is now increasing knowledge that the innate immune system and, in particular, TLRs take a part in SSc pathogenesis. The list of endogenous ligands that can stimulate TLRs in SSc is growing: these ligands represent specific danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), involved either in the initiation or the perpetuation of inflammation, and in the release of factors that sustain the fibrotic process or directly stimulate the cells that produce collagen and the endothelial cells. This review reports evidences concerning TLR signalling involvement in SSc. We report the new DAMPs, as well as the TLR-linked pathways involved in disease, with emphasis on type I interferon signature in SSc, the role of plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) and platelets. The dissection of the contribution of all these pathways to disease, and their correlation with the disease status, as well as their values as prognostic tools, can help to plan timely intervention and design new drugs for more appropriate therapeutic strategies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 一般演題（口演）
JO  - Nihon Kyukyu Igakukai Zasshi: Journal of Japanese Association for Acute Medicine
JA  - Nihon Kyukyu Igakukai Zasshi: Japanese Journal of Japanese Association for Acute Medicine
VL  - 27
IS  - 9
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jja2.12147
DO  - doi:10.1002/jja2.12147
SP  - 415
EP  - 500
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Carbone, Michele
AU  - Ly, Bevan H.
AU  - Dodson, Ronald F.
AU  - Pagano, Ian
AU  - Morris, Paul T.
AU  - Dogan, Umran A.
AU  - Gazdar, Adi F.
AU  - Pass, Harvey I.
AU  - Yang, Haining
TI  - Malignant mesothelioma: Facts, Myths, and Hypotheses
JO  - Journal of Cellular Physiology
JA  - J. Cell. Physiol.
VL  - 227
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.22724
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcp.22724
SP  - 44
EP  - 58
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Malignant mesothelioma (MM) is a neoplasm arising from mesothelial cells lining the pleural, peritoneal, and pericardial cavities. Over 20 million people in the US are at risk of developing MM due to asbestos exposure. MM mortality rates are estimated to increase by 5?10% per year in most industrialized countries until about 2020. The incidence of MM in men has continued to rise during the past 50 years, while the incidence in women appears largely unchanged. It is estimated that about 50?80% of pleural MM in men and 20?30% in women developed in individuals whose history indicates asbestos exposure(s) above that expected from most background settings. While rare for women, about 30% of peritoneal mesothelioma in men has been associated with exposure to asbestos. Erionite is a potent carcinogenic mineral fiber capable of causing both pleural and peritoneal MM. Since erionite is considerably less widespread than asbestos, the number of MM cases associated with erionite exposure is smaller. Asbestos induces DNA alterations mostly by inducing mesothelial cells and reactive macrophages to secrete mutagenic oxygen and nitrogen species. In addition, asbestos carcinogenesis is linked to the chronic inflammatory process caused by the deposition of a sufficient number of asbestos fibers and the consequent release of pro-inflammatory molecules, especially HMGB-1, the master switch that starts the inflammatory process, and TNF-alpha by macrophages and mesothelial cells. Genetic predisposition, radiation exposure and viral infection are co-factors that can alone or together with asbestos and erionite cause MM. J. Cell. Physiol. 227: 44?58, 2012. ? 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jabbarli, Ramazan
AU  - Rauschenbach, Laurèl
AU  - Dinger, Thiemo Florin
AU  - Darkwah Oppong, Marvin
AU  - Rodemerk, Jan
AU  - Pierscianek, Daniela
AU  - Dammann, Philipp
AU  - Junker, Andreas
AU  - Sure, Ulrich
AU  - Wrede, Karsten H
TI  - In the Wall lies the Truth: A Systematic Review of Diagnostic Markers in Intracranial Aneurysms
JO  - Brain Pathology
JA  - Brain Pathol
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bpa.12828
DO  - doi:10.1111/bpa.12828
KW  - histology
KW  - immunohistochemistry
KW  - intracranial aneurysm
KW  - genetic
KW  - molecular
KW  - marker
KW  - rupture
KW  - formation
KW  - inflammation
AB  - Abstract Objective Despite recent advances in molecular biology and genetics, the development of intracranial aneurysms (IA) is still poorly understood. Elucidation of the processes occurring in the IA wall is essential for a better understanding of IA pathophysiology. We sought to analyze the current evidence from histological, molecular and genetic studies of IA. Methods We systematically searched PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science and Cochrane Library for articles published before Mar 1, 2019 reporting on different diagnostic markers in human IA specimens. Expression of the markers in IA wall (vs healthy arterial wall) and association with the rupture status were analyzed. The quality of the included studies and the level of the evidence for the markers were incorporated into the final data assessment. Results We included 123 studies reporting on analyses of 3476 IA (median 19 IA/study) published between 1966 and 2018. Based on microscopic, biochemical, genetic and biomechanical analyses, data on 358 diagnostic targets in the IA wall were collected. We developed a scale to distribute the diagnostic markers according to their specificity for IA or healthy arterial wall, as well as for ruptured or unruptured IA. We identified different functional pathways, which might reflect the intrinsic and extrinsic processes underlying IA pathophysiology. Conclusions Multiple histological and molecular markers and the related functional pathways contributing to the development of IA might present promising targets for future therapeutic interventions. Due to small numbers of IA samples in each study, 89% of the analyzed diagnostic markers presented with the lowest level of evidence. This underlines the need for the initiation of a multi-centric prospective histological IA register for pooled data analysis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vogel, Sebastian
AU  - Thein, Swee Lay
TI  - Platelets at the crossroads of thrombosis, inflammation and haemolysis
JO  - British Journal of Haematology
JA  - Br J Haematol
VL  - 180
IS  - 5
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bjh.15117
DO  - doi:10.1111/bjh.15117
SP  - 761
EP  - 767
KW  - platelets
KW  - inflammation
KW  - haemolysis
KW  - sickle cell disease
KW  - thrombosis
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary Platelets play a critical role at the interphase of thrombosis and inflammation, key features in haemolysis-associated disorders. Exercising this role requires expression of pattern recognition receptors by platelets, including toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and nucleotide-binding domain leucine rich repeat containing protein 3 (NLRP3), the latter forming intraplatelet multiprotein inflammasome complexes. Platelets are a potential target of various damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) molecules, such as free haem, a degradation by-product of haemoglobin oxidation during haemolysis, and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), a DNA-binding protein released by dying or stressed cells and activated platelets. We have recently identified platelet TLR4, NLRP3, and Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) as critical regulators of platelet aggregation and thrombus formation, suggesting that the BTK inhibitor ibrutinib is a potential therapeutic target. Increasing evidence suggests that these and other DAMP-driven signalling mechanisms employed by platelets might be key in mediating inflammation and thrombosis encountered in haemolytic disorders. However, the precise regulatory triggers and their clinical relevance are poorly understood. We provide new insights into these less-well characterised platelet mechanisms, which are potentially targetable in haemolytic disorders.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mori, Daniel N.
AU  - Kreisel, Daniel
AU  - Fullerton, James N.
AU  - Gilroy, Derek W.
AU  - Goldstein, Daniel R.
TI  - Inflammatory triggers of acute rejection of organ allografts
JO  - Immunological Reviews
JA  - Immunol Rev
VL  - 258
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imr.12146
DO  - doi:10.1111/imr.12146
SP  - 132
EP  - 144
KW  - inflammation
KW  - resolution
KW  - organ transplantation
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary Solid organ transplantation is a vital therapy for end stage diseases. Decades of research have established that components of the adaptive immune system are critical for transplant rejection, but the role of the innate immune system in organ transplantation is just emerging. Accumulating evidence indicates that the innate immune system is activated at the time of organ implantation by the release of endogenous inflammatory triggers. This review discusses the nature of these triggers in organ transplantation and also potential mediators that may enhance inflammation resolution after organ implantation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts–Symposia
JO  - Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research
JA  - Alcohol Clin Exp Res
VL  - 37
IS  - s2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/acer.12163
DO  - doi:10.1111/acer.12163
SP  - 254A
EP  - 308A
PY  - 2013
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - International Neuromodulation Society's 13th World Congress Neuromodulation: Technology Changing Lives Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom May 27–June 1, 2017
JO  - Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface
JA  - Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface
VL  - 20
IS  - 7
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ner.12647
DO  - doi:10.1111/ner.12647
SP  - e336
EP  - e783
PY  - 2017
ER  - 

AU  - McConachie, Erin L.
AU  - Hart, Kelsey A.
C7  - pp. 153-172
TI  - Inflammation, Endotoxemia and Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome
SN  - 9781118558874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119086512.ch18
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119086512.ch18
SP  - 153-172
KW  - Corticosteroids
KW  - Corticosteroids
KW  - Endotoxemia
KW  - immune system
KW  - inflammation
KW  - sepsis
KW  - Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary Horses suffer from a long list of diseases in which inflammation is central to the pathogenesis of the primary disease process. When the inflammatory response extends beyond the local injured tissues, widespread systemic inflammation ensues and can generate the clinical syndrome known as the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). The innate immune system is integral to the pathogenesis of the clinically recognized acute inflammatory disorders of SIRS, endotoxemia and sepsis syndromes. Coagulopathies are likely to exist in patients with moderate to severe systemic inflammation or endotoxemia, with variable clinicopathologic evidence of disordered hemostasis. Corticosteroids, theoretically, have many useful actions for fighting inflammation in endotoxemia, SIRS, and sepsis. Horses that recover from severe SIRS and sepsis are not necessarily at risk to have recurrent episodes of disease. However, inflammation-related end-organ damage might predispose them to organ failure or related complications in the future.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Aronica, Eleonora
AU  - Bauer, Sebastian
AU  - Bozzi, Yuri
AU  - Caleo, Matteo
AU  - Dingledine, Raymond
AU  - Gorter, Jan A.
AU  - Henshall, David C.
AU  - Kaufer, Daniela
AU  - Koh, Sookyong
AU  - Löscher, Wolfgang
AU  - Louboutin, Jean-Pierre
AU  - Mishto, Michele
AU  - Norwood, Braxton A.
AU  - Palma, Eleonora
AU  - Poulter, Michael O.
AU  - Terrone, Gaetano
AU  - Vezzani, Annamaria
AU  - Kaminski, Rafal M.
TI  - Neuroinflammatory targets and treatments for epilepsy validated in experimental models
JO  - Epilepsia
JA  - Epilepsia
VL  - 58
IS  - S3
SN  - 9781118558874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/epi.13783
DO  - doi:10.1111/epi.13783
SP  - 27
EP  - 38
KW  - Inflammation
KW  - Immune response
KW  - Drug development
KW  - Anti-ictogenesis
KW  - Antiepileptogenesis
KW  - Disease modification
KW  - Epilepsy
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary A large body of evidence that has accumulated over the past decade strongly supports the role of inflammation in the pathophysiology of human epilepsy. Specific inflammatory molecules and pathways have been identified that influence various pathologic outcomes in different experimental models of epilepsy. Most importantly, the same inflammatory pathways have also been found in surgically resected brain tissue from patients with treatment-resistant epilepsy. New antiseizure therapies may be derived from these novel potential targets. An essential and crucial question is whether targeting these molecules and pathways may result in anti-ictogenesis, antiepileptogenesis, and/or disease-modification effects. Therefore, preclinical testing in models mimicking relevant aspects of epileptogenesis is needed to guide integrated experimental and clinical trial designs. We discuss the most recent preclinical proof-of-concept studies validating a number of therapeutic approaches against inflammatory mechanisms in animal models that could represent novel avenues for drug development in epilepsy. Finally, we suggest future directions to accelerate preclinical to clinical translation of these recent discoveries.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Delano, Matthew J.
AU  - Ward, Peter A.
TI  - The immune system's role in sepsis progression, resolution, and long-term outcome
JO  - Immunological Reviews
JA  - Immunol Rev
VL  - 274
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781118558874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imr.12499
DO  - doi:10.1111/imr.12499
SP  - 330
EP  - 353
KW  - adaptive immune dysfunction
KW  - immune suppression sepsis
KW  - inflammation
KW  - innate immune dysfunction
KW  - sepsis
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Sepsis occurs when an infection exceeds local tissue containment and induces a series of dysregulated physiologic responses that result in organ dysfunction. A subset of patients with sepsis progress to septic shock, defined by profound circulatory, cellular, and metabolic abnormalities, and associated with a greater mortality. Historically, sepsis-induced organ dysfunction and lethality were attributed to the complex interplay between the initial inflammatory and later anti-inflammatory responses. With advances in intensive care medicine and goal-directed interventions, early 30-day sepsis mortality has diminished, only to steadily escalate long after ?recovery? from acute events. As so many sepsis survivors succumb later to persistent, recurrent, nosocomial, and secondary infections, many investigators have turned their attention to the long-term sepsis-induced alterations in cellular immune function. Sepsis clearly alters the innate and adaptive immune responses for sustained periods of time after clinical recovery, with immune suppression, chronic inflammation, and persistence of bacterial representing such alterations. Understanding that sepsis-associated immune cell defects correlate with long-term mortality, more investigations have centered on the potential for immune modulatory therapy to improve long-term patient outcomes. These efforts are focused on more clearly defining and effectively reversing the persistent immune cell dysfunction associated with long-term sepsis mortality.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - SSI 2017 44th Annual Meeting of the Scandinavian Society of Immunology Stockholm, Sweden 17–20 October 2017
JO  - Scandinavian Journal of Immunology
JA  - Scand J Immunol
VL  - 86
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781118558874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/sji.12587
DO  - doi:10.1111/sji.12587
SP  - 249
EP  - 350
PY  - 2017
ER  - 
