
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Patel, Neil
AU  - Powell, Arfon G.
AU  - Wheat, Jenni R.
AU  - Brown, Christopher
AU  - Appadurai, Ian R.
AU  - Davies, Richard G.
AU  - Bailey, Damian M.
AU  - Lewis, Wyn G.
C7  - e14174
TI  - Cardiopulmonary fitness predicts postoperative major morbidity after esophagectomy for patients with cancer
JO  - Physiological Reports
JA  - Physiol Rep
VL  - 7
IS  - 14
SN  - 2051-817X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.14814/phy2.14174
DO  - doi:10.14814/phy2.14174
SP  - e14174
KW  - Cardiopulmonary fitness
KW  - morbidity
KW  - esophageal cancer
KW  - prognosis
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Surgery for radical treatment of esophageal cancer (EC) carries significant inherent risk. The objective identification of patients who are at high risk of complications is of importance. In this study the prognostic value of cardiopulmonary fitness variables (CPF) derived from cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) was assessed in patients undergoing potentially curative surgery for EC within an enhanced recovery program. OC patients underwent preoperative CPET using automated breath-by-breath respiratory gas analysis, with measurements taken during a ramped exercise test on a bicycle. The prognostic value of , Anaerobic Threshold (AT) and VE/VCO2 derived from CPET were studied in relation to post-operative morbidity, which was collected prospectively, and overall survival. Consecutive 120 patients were included for analysis (median age 65 years, 100 male, 75 neoadjuvant therapy). Median AT in the cohort developing major morbidity (Clavien?Dindo classification >2) was 10.4 mL/kg/min compared with 11.3 mL/kg/min with no major morbidity (P = 0.048). Median in the cohort developing major morbidity was 17.0 mL/kg/min compared with 18.7 mL/kg/min in the cohort (P = 0.009). optimum cut-off was 17.0 mL/kg/min (sensitivity 70%, specificity 53%) and for AT was 10.5 mL/kg/min (sensitivity 60%, specificity 44%). Multivariable analysis revealed to be the only independent factor to predict major morbidity (OR 0.85, 95% CI 0.75?0.97, P = 0.018). Cumulative survival was associated with operative morbidity severity (?2 = 4.892, df = 1, P = 0.027). These results indicate that as derived from CPET is a significant predictor of major morbidity after oesophagectomy highlighting the physiological importance of cardiopulmonary fitness.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lerner, Susan
AU  - Magrane, Diane
AU  - Friedman, Erica
TI  - Teaching Teamwork in Medical Education
JO  - Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine: A Journal of Translational and Personalized Medicine
JA  - Mt Sinai J Med
VL  - 76
IS  - 4
SN  - 0027-2507
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/msj.20129
DO  - doi:10.1002/msj.20129
SP  - 318
EP  - 329
KW  - crew resource management
KW  - healthcare
KW  - medical education
KW  - safety
KW  - simulation
KW  - team performance
KW  - team training
KW  - teamwork
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Teamwork has become a major focus in healthcare. In part, this is the result of the Institute of Medicine report entitled To Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System, which details the high rate of preventable medical errors, many of which are the result of dysfunctional or nonexistent teamwork. It has been proposed that a healthcare system that supports effective teamwork can improve the quality of patient care and reduce workload issues that cause burnout among healthcare professionals. Few clear guidelines exist to help guide the implementation of all these recommendations in healthcare settings. In general, training programs designed to improve team skills are a new concept for medicine, particularly for physicians who are trained largely to be self-sufficient and individually responsible for their actions. Outside of healthcare, research has shown that teams working together in high-risk and high-intensity work environments make fewer mistakes than individuals. This evidence originates from commercial aviation, the military, firefighting, and rapid-response police activities. Commercial aviation, an industry in which mistakes can result in unacceptable loss, has been at the forefront of risk reduction through teamwork training. The importance of teamwork has been recognized by some in the healthcare industry who have begun to develop their own specialty-driven programs. The purpose of this review is to discuss the current literature on teaching about teamwork in undergraduate medical education. We describe the science of teams, analyze the work in team training that has been done in other fields, and assess what work has been done in other fields about the importance of team training (ie, aviation, nonmedical education, and business). Additionally, it is vital to assess what work has already been done in medicine to advance the skills required for effective teamwork. Much of this work has been done in fields in which medical professionals deal with crisis situations (ie, anesthesia, trauma, and labor and delivery). We describe the current programs for teaching medical students these essential skills and what recommendations have been made about the best ways to introduce teaching this skill set into the curriculum. Finally, we include a review on assessing teamwork because one cannot teach team training without implementing an assessment to ensure that the skills are being learned. Mt Sinai J Med 76:318?329, 2009. ? 2008 Mount Sinai School of Medicine
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Woodsong, Cynthia
AU  - Mutsambi, John Michael
AU  - Ntshele, Smangalisa
AU  - Modikoe, Peggy
C7  - 19156
TI  - Community and research staff collaboration for development of materials to inform microbicide study participants in Africa
JO  - Journal of the International AIDS Society
JA  - Journal of the International AIDS Society
VL  - 17
IS  - 3S2
SN  - 1758-2652
UR  - https://doi.org/10.7448/IAS.17.3.19156
DO  - doi:10.7448/IAS.17.3.19156
SP  - 19156
KW  - microbicide trials
KW  - community collaboration
KW  - participant information materials
PY  - 2014
AB  - Introduction Clinical trials of new vaginal products require careful communication with participants about trial requirements. Most microbicide trials have been multi-site studies conducted among women in sub-Saharan Africa, where literacy levels and understanding of scientific methods differ from those designing and conducting the trials. Microbicide trials require women to insert objects in their vagina and ensure they are present in the vagina during sex. For many women, this is a novel behaviour. These behaviours take place within the context of clinical trial participation, which is an additional novelty. Research teams must develop informational materials to help participants understand the clinical trial and input from local research staff and community members can improve the content and format of these materials. Methods This paper discusses the development of illustrated materials developed for microbicide trial participants, presenting examples from two studies. In both studies, research staff and community advisory groups collaborated to review and revise materials. Results Collaborative efforts revealed insights about how to convey information about clinical trial participation and microbicide use. These insights highlighted realities of the local context, details that might be misunderstood, illustrations of a sensitive nature and concerns about blood testing. In particular, information about blood testing and product use instructions required careful consideration. Although the research team anticipated needing advice on how best to convey information on these topics to participants, some aspects of potential participant concerns about these topics were also new to the research team. Community advisors and local research staff suggested better ways to convey this information, and provided guidance on how to use the materials. Conclusions The collaboration served to develop informational materials for microbicide trial participants. Furthermore, staff gained a better understanding of issues and concerns that could influence trial participation. A collaborative engagement process can provide important insights into local culture and knowledge beyond what is needed for development of clinical trial participant information materials. Research teams should be sensitive to this possibility, avail themselves of information and take appropriate action.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - DuHamel, Katherine N.
AU  - Rini, Christine
AU  - Austin, Jane
AU  - Ostroff, Jamie
AU  - Parsons, Susan
AU  - Martini, Richard
AU  - Williams, Sharon
AU  - Mee, Laura
AU  - Sexson, Sandra
AU  - Winkel, Gary
AU  - Boulad, Farid
AU  - Redd, William H.
AU  - Manne, Sharon
TI  - Optimism and life events as predictors of fear appraisals in mothers of children undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
JO  - Psycho-Oncology
JA  - Psycho‐Oncology
VL  - 16
IS  - 9
SN  - 1057-9249
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pon.1132
DO  - doi:10.1002/pon.1132
SP  - 821
EP  - 833
KW  - cancer
KW  - hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
KW  - optimism
KW  - life events
KW  - mothers' fear
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract Although mothers' fear appraisals about their child's future health and well-being affect their own psychological adjustment to their child's hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), little is known about antecedents of maternal fear appraisals. This longitudinal study investigated several potential antecedents of these fear appraisals: maternal optimism, recent negative life events, lifetime history of traumatic events, and medical characteristics of the child's disease and HSCT course. One hundred-forty mothers were interviewed during their child's hospitalization for HSCT and at 3-and 6-months post-HSCT. Structural equation modeling was used to test a model of hypothesized relations. Consistent with predictions, lower optimism and a greater number of negative life events were independently associated with greater maternal fear appraisals. Contrary to expectations, lifetime history of trauma was not associated with maternal fear appraisals. Mothers' fear appraisals during their child's hospitalization were, in turn, associated with their fear appraisals up to 6 months later. These data identify a subset of mothers who may be particularly in need of an intervention to increase optimistic coping strategies, improve coping with negative life events, and reduce fear appraisals to improve their adjustment following their child's HSCT. Copyright ? 2007 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Shirley, Denise
AU  - Marsh, David
AU  - Jordan, Grant
AU  - McQuaid, Stephen
AU  - Li, Gang
TI  - Systemic recruitment of osteoblastic cells in fracture healing
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 23
IS  - 5
SN  - 0736-0266
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.orthres.2005.01.013
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.orthres.2005.01.013
SP  - 1013
EP  - 1021
KW  - Fracture healing
KW  - Osteoblast recruitment
KW  - MSCs
KW  - Circulation
KW  - PHK 26
PY  - 2005
AB  - Abstract We hypothesise that following a bone fracture there is systemic recruitment of bone forming cells to a fracture site. A rabbit ulnar osteotomy model was adapted to trace the movement of osteogenic cells. Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells from 41 NZW rabbits were isolated, culture-expanded and fluorescently labelled. The labelled cells were either re-implanted into the fracture gap (Group A); into a vein (Group B); or into a remote tibial bone marrow cavity 48 h after the osteotomy (Group C) or 4 weeks before the osteotomy was established (Group D), and a control group (Group E) had no labelled cells given. To quantify passive leakage of cells to an injury site, inert beads were also co-delivered in Group B. Samples of the fracture callus tissue and various organs were harvested at discrete sacrifice time-points to trace and quantify the labelled cells. At 3 weeks following osteotomy, the number of labelled cells identified in the callus of Group C, was significantly greater than following IV delivery, Group B, and there was no difference in the number of labelled cells in the callus tissues, between Groups C and A, indicating the labelled bone marrow cells were capable of migrating to the fracture sites from the remote bone marrow cavity. Significantly fewer inert beads than labelled cells were identified in Group B callus, suggesting some of the bone-forming cells were actively recruited and selectively chosen to the fracture site, rather than passively leaked into the circulation and to bone injury site. This investigation supports the hypothesis that some osteoblasts involved in fracture healing were systemically mobilised and recruited to the fracture from remote bone marrow sites. ? 2005 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
ER  - 

AU  - Park, Kristen
AU  - Koh, Susan
C7  - pp. 73-89
TI  - Evaluating the Child with Seizures
SN  - 9780470741238
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119998600.ch5
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119998600.ch5
SP  - 73-89
KW  - diagnosis
KW  - assessment
KW  - evaluation
KW  - recurrence risk
KW  - comorbidity
KW  - history
KW  - EEG
KW  - neuroimaging
KW  - examination
KW  - laboratory testing
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary Evaluating the child with seizures is a complex process that often involves a variety of different care providers in several settings, including pediatricians, emergency room personnel, teachers, and parents along with the neurologist who may be ultimately responsible for the diagnosis and management of the patient. This chapter will attempt to discuss the tools and diagnostic tests involved in this process, and current practice parameters regarding emergent evaluation and initial assessment. We outline a strategy for evaluation of seizures that includes a discussion of accurate diagnosis, etiology, and assessment of recurrence risk in order to determine appropriate management and counseling. This covers history-taking, assessment of comorbidities, and physical examination. Additional neurodiagnostic assessments are also considered, including EEG, neuroimaging, and laboratory testing.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tykocinski, Michael
AU  - Cowan, Robert SC
TI  - Poly-vinyl-alcohol (PVA) coating of cochlear implant electrode arrays: an in-vivo biosafety study
JO  - Cochlear Implants International
JA  - Cochlear Implants Int.
VL  - 6
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470741238
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cii.17
DO  - doi:10.1002/cii.17
SP  - 16
EP  - 30
KW  - cochlear implants
KW  - poly-vinyl-alcohol (PVA)
KW  - electrode array
KW  - coating
KW  - biosafety
PY  - 2005
AB  - Abstract Objective The tissue response and biosafety of poly-vinyl-alcohol (PVA) has been investigated to explore its potential use as an agent to straighten pre-curved cochlear implant electrode arrays for surgical insertion. Methods Test arrays were implanted either subcutaneously or into the cochlea of guinea pigs for 3 months. The arrays were uncoated (Treatment 1) or coated with low molecular weight (MW) PVA (Treatment 2), high MW PVA (Treatment 3) or a 50:50 mixture of low and high MW PVA (Treatment 4). After explantation the tissues were examined histologically. Results In both study groups, Treatment 2 dissolved completely and induced the least tissue reaction, while Treatments 3 and 4 not only dissolved incompletely, but also induced more fibrous tissue growth. Treatment 4 coated arrays induced severe insertion trauma in all the cochleas, most likely due to the thickness of the coat and the resulting rigidity of the array. Spiral ganglion cell density (SGCD) in the basal turn of the scala tympani was reduced for both Treatments 2 and 4. While the reduction in SGCD in the Treatment 4 group is likely to be a result of the insertion trauma caused and the subsequent loss of peripheral dendrites, it is unknown what caused the reduction of SGCD in the Treatment 2 group. Conclusion Prior to the specific use of PVA as electrode array coating material, the ideal composition and its biosafety needs to be reassessed. Copyright ? 2005 Whurr Publishers Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - McDonell, Amy
AU  - Oxenham, Marc F
TI  - Localised Primary Canine Hypoplasia: Implications for Maternal and Infant Health at Man Bac, Vietnam, 4000–3500 years BP
JO  - International Journal of Osteoarchaeology
JA  - Int. J. Osteoarchaeol.
VL  - 24
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780470741238
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/oa.2239
DO  - doi:10.1002/oa.2239
SP  - 531
EP  - 539
KW  - LHPC
KW  - Neolithic
KW  - Southeast Asia
KW  - neonatal stress
KW  - pregnancy
PY  - 2014
AB  - ABSTRACT The aim of this paper is to assess the frequency of localised primary canine hypoplasia (LHPC) in a sample of 24 subadults from a Neolithic cemetery assemblage located at Man Bac, northern Vietnam (~4000?3500?years BP), and explore the range of factors potentially contributing to the development of this condition. It is found that 41.7% of individuals (20.9% of primary canines) have LHPC, which is similar to the frequency reported in a suite of ancient cemetery series from Neolithic through to Metal Age Thailand. A range of competing aetiological factors considered included trauma to the deciduous canine, ostensibly by way of early childhood exploratory behaviours (e.g. ?mouthing? objects), nutritional and dietary deficiencies (especially vitamin A and D), the impact of the mother's health on the developing foetus as well as the effects of premature birth on the developing child. It is concluded that while the aetiology LHPC is multi-factorial, the reasonably high prevalence of this condition at Man Bac suggests depressed maternal and neonatal health, consistent with a community experiencing high rates of fertility and transitioning to an agricultural subsistence economy. Copyright ? 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

AU  - Melniker, Lawrence A.
C7  - pp. 347-354
TI  - Chest Pain and Dyspnea
SN  - 9780470657577
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119072874.ch32
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119072874.ch32
SP  - 347-354
KW  - acute coronary syndrome
KW  - chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
KW  - congestive heart failure
KW  - dyspnea
KW  - focused cardiac ultrasound
KW  - non-ischaemia-related chest pain
KW  - pulmonary function tests
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary Chest pain and dyspnoea are among the most common complaints seen in the emergency department, accounting for nearly 20% of all visits. This chapter focuses on acute coronary syndrome, non-ischaemia-related chest pain, and congestive heart failure (CHF). In addition to ischemic heart disease, causes of chest pain may include pulmonary embolus, disorders of the pericardium, pleura and the chest wall, as well as oesophageal and spinal. A combination of focused cardiac and lung ultrasound can elucidate multiple causes of chest pain. Focused cardiac ultrasound (FoCUS) is useful in evaluating a variety of pathological conditions affecting the pericardium, especially pericardial effusion. In addition to heart failure, a number of disorders can cause dyspnoea, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, pneumonia, sepsis, pulmonary embolism, deconditioning, metabolic acidosis, anxiety and many others. Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) have been used for many years for distinguishing dyspnoea of pulmonary origin from that of cardiac origin.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Doody, O
AU  - Given, MF
AU  - Kavnoudias, H
AU  - Street, M
AU  - Thomson, KR
AU  - Lyon, SM
TI  - Initial experience in 115 patients with the retrievable Cook Celect vena cava filter
JO  - Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Oncology
VL  - 53
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470657577
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1754-9485.2009.02039.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1754-9485.2009.02039.x
SP  - 64
EP  - 68
KW  - Celect filter
KW  - complication
KW  - prophylactic indication
KW  - retrieval interval
KW  - thromboembolic disease
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2009
AB  - Summary The aim of this study was to evaluate our experience with the retrievable Cook Celect inferior vena cava (IVC) filter (William Cook, Europe) with regard to insertion, efficiency, ease of retrieval, and any associated complications. A retrospective review was performed of 115 patients (41 female, 74 male, mean age 47.97?years) who underwent Cook Celect IVC filter insertion between December 2005 and October 2007. Filter insertion was successful in all patients. Of the 115 filters inserted, 57 have been successfully retrieved (49.6%) to date. The successful retrieval rate from attempted retrieval was 93.4%. The mean dwell time of successfully retrieved filters was 114.9?days (range 14?267?days). Failed retrievals were due to a thrombosed vena cava (n?=?1) and endothelialisation of the filter (n?=?3). In the failed retrieval group the mean implantation time was 142?days (range 78?211?days). While this is the first retrospective clinical study on the Cook Celect filter, results to date are promising. We demonstrated an efficacious filter with a high successful retrieval rate of 93.4% and a low complication rate. The filter was assessed with extended dwell times (range 14?267?days). Failed retrieval secondary to hook endothelialisation continues to be an issue with this filter. We recognize that a limitation of our study was the lack of systematic follow-up for clinically silent complications. Further studies to evaluate longer term outcomes and effectiveness of this filter are warranted.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Takacs, Joel D.
AU  - Singh, Ameet
AU  - Case, J. Brad
AU  - Mayhew, Philipp D.
AU  - Giuffrida, Michelle A.
AU  - Caceres, Ana V.
AU  - Fox-Alvarez, W. Alexander
AU  - Runge, Jeffrey J.
TI  - Total laparoscopic gastropexy using 1 simple continuous barbed suture line in 63 dogs
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 46
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470657577
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.12601
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.12601
SP  - 233
EP  - 241
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Objective To describe the use and outcome of a single, simple continuous, barbed suture line for prophylactic, total laparoscopic gastropexy in dogs. Study Design Multi-center, retrospective case series. Animals Sixty-three client-owned dogs. Methods Medical records of dogs undergoing total laparoscopic gastropexy using a barbed suture at 4 academic veterinary hospitals from 2011-2015 were reviewed. Data collected included signalment, procedure time, procedure-associated complications, short-term complications, and long-term outcome. All procedures were performed under general anesthesia in dorsal to dorsal-left oblique recumbency. Laparoscopic ports were placed on ventral midline in 1 of 3 port configurations, and 5 mm laparoscopic needle drivers were used for intracorporeal sutured gastropexy with unidirectional barbed suture. The gastropexy was positioned just caudal to the 13th rib, 2-4 cm lateral to the rectus abdominis muscle. Results Sixty-three dogs underwent total laparoscopic gastropexy with a single, simple continuous, barbed suture line. Median gastropexy surgery time was 70 minutes (interquartile range [IQR] 60-90 minutes). One dog sustained splenic laceration from Veress needle penetration during initial abdominal insufflation. Short term (>24 hours to 6 months postoperative) complications included incisional seroma formation (n?=?2) and suture reaction (n?=?1). Long term (>6 months postoperative) complications included intermittent regurgitation and chronic diarrhea in 1 dog. Fifteen dogs had postoperative ultrasound and all had intact gastropexy sites. Conclusion Total laparoscopic barbed gastropexy using a single, simple continuous, barbed suture line in dogs is safe and results in an intact gastropexy long term.
ER  - 

AU  - Duchesne, Juan C.
AU  - Duke, Marquinn D.
C7  - pp. 41-51
TI  - Sepsis and the Inflammatory Response to Injury
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118274231.ch4
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118274231.ch4
SP  - 41-51
KW  - sepsis, and inflammatory response to injury
KW  - drotrecogin alfa (activated), reducing mortality in patients
KW  - EGDT in sepsis/septic shock, exception with packed RBC transfusion
KW  - vasopressin in septic shock, reducing catecholamine infusion
KW  - surgical site infection prevention, exception in antibiotics discontinuation
KW  - corticosteroid in septic shock, in vasopressor-dependent septic shock
KW  - drotrecogin alfa in septic shock, absolute contraindication
KW  - cytokines, as pyrogenic, and TNF
KW  - vasodilation in sepsis, by, ATP-sensitive potassium channels
KW  - sepsis manifestation, exception of the skeletal
PY  - 2017
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lee, Sangmook
AU  - Zemianek, Jill M.
AU  - Shultz, Abraham
AU  - Vo, Anh
AU  - Maron, Ben Y.
AU  - Therrien, Mikaela
AU  - Courtright, Christina
AU  - Guaraldi, Mary
AU  - Yanco, Holly A.
AU  - Shea, Thomas B.
TI  - Synaptic signal streams generated by ex vivo neuronal networks contain non-random, complex patterns
JO  - International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience
JA  - International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience
VL  - 38
IS  - C
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2014.08.008
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2014.08.008
SP  - 184
EP  - 194
KW  - Neuronal network
KW  - Synaptic activity
KW  - Cultured neurons
KW  - Multi-electrode array
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Cultured embryonic neurons develop functional networks that transmit synaptic signals over multiple sequentially connected neurons as revealed by multi-electrode arrays (MEAs) embedded within the culture dish. Signal streams of ex vivo networks contain spikes and bursts of varying amplitude and duration. Despite the random interactions inherent in dissociated cultures, neurons are capable of establishing functional ex vivo networks that transmit signals among synaptically connected neurons, undergo developmental maturation, and respond to exogenous stimulation by alterations in signal patterns. These characteristics indicate that a considerable degree of organization is an inherent property of neurons. We demonstrate herein that (1) certain signal types occur more frequently than others, (2) the predominant signal types change during and following maturation, (3) signal predominance is dependent upon inhibitory activity, and (4) certain signals preferentially follow others in a non-reciprocal manner. These findings indicate that the elaboration of complex signal streams comprised of a non-random distribution of signal patterns is an emergent property of ex vivo neuronal networks.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 7th International Symposium on Enabling Technologies for Life Sciences (ETP)
JO  - Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry
JA  - Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom.
VL  - 27
IS  - 22
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rcm.6724
DO  - doi:10.1002/rcm.6724
SP  - 2570
EP  - 2580
PY  - 2013
AB  - The seventh in the series of ETP Symposia (see Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 2012, 26, 1515?1518 for a description and report on the 6th Symposium) was held at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, Toronto, Canada, on 30 April to 1 May, 2013, and was chaired by Professor Daniel Figeys, Ottawa Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa. The purpose of these symposia is to convene meetings of scientists and engineers from universities, government laboratories, industry and manufacturers of scientific instrumentation, to discuss novel technologies and methodologies applicable to research in molecular biology. The speakers and the Abstracts of their presentations are listed alphabetically below. The program illustrates some significant changes from earlier versions (www.etpsymposium.org) that were devoted almost entirely to proteomics (the 'P' in 'ETP'). In addition to new techniques and applications related to that area, this symposium featured work related to nucleic acid characterization, biomaterials discovery, water disinfection byproducts, and metabolomics, as well as more fundamental developments in mass spectrometry (ionization techniques and quadrupole theory) and sample preparation. The symposium is now more truly international, with speakers from Canada, USA, Europe and China. It is hoped that the wide variety of topics and backgrounds of participants, together with the highly informal setting, will help promote cross-fertilization of ideas and unforeseen collaborations. Perdita E. Barran, Department of Chemistry, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK Resolution of solution structures in the absence of solvent (Invited Talk) Gentle application of nano-electrospray to proteins buffered in solution to an appropriate pH allows us to use mass spectrometry to interrogate their solution conformations. This can be achieved directly with ion mobility mass spectrometry where we measure the rotationally averaged temperature dependent collision cross section of mass separated ions, or more indirectly with the use of dissociation methods. Data obtained from both methods provides insight to the structure and stability of the protein, and also detail on its interactions, especially when combined with atomistically resolved data from crystallography and/or computational approaches. Data were presented from two systems, the first was a peptide level model of the interaction between the transcription factor c-MYC and its partner MAX; the second was a detailed structural evaluation of the metamorphic protein Lymphotactin. Ronald Beavis, Beavis Informatics Ltd, Winnipeg, Canada False negatives in proteomics (Invited Talk) Proteomics experiments using tandem mass spectrometry to identify peptides and proteins are prone to various types of false negative identifications that can affect the utility of the information generated from the experiments, as well as their reproducibility. This talk discussed the classification of the most common types of false negatives as well as how they can be detected, remedied or avoided. John D. Brennan, Blake J. Helka and Elna D. Luckham, Department of Chemistry, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada Imaging MALDI MS/MS of microarrays as a platform for high throughput biomaterials discovery (Invited Talk) This presentation highlighted recent work within the Biointerfaces Institute at McMaster University in the area of high throughput screening of biomaterials, with particular emphasis on the use of imaging MALDI for characterization of biomaterial microarrays. Using robotic handling systems and a combination of contact and noncontact microarray printing, we are able to produce several thousand biomaterials per day with a wide range of chemical compositions. Using sol?gel based materials as an example, the presentation showed the workflow utilized to develop new bioactive sol?gel materials for biosensing and small molecule screening applications. This includes methods to produce several thousand materials very rapidly, tools for rapid screening to identify ' hits' that show a desired property (high biological activity, low non-specific binding, etc.), and further detailed material analysis using a range of imaging methods based on fluorescence, XPS, MALDI-MS/MS and SPR to fully characterize the properties of biologically active materials. In particular, this presentation emphasized the unique capabilities of MALDI-MS/MS for evaluating biomaterial properties and the interaction of materials with biological samples. Methods for cataloging, mining and analyzing large datasets within the Database of Biointerface Interactions were also discussed. Rui Chen, H. Zou and D. Figeys, Ontario Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada Characterization of cell membrane N-glycosylation with integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction and LC/MS/MS Glycosylation of membrane proteins plays important roles in cellular behaviours such as cell-cell interaction, immunology recognition and cell signalling. Despite their importance the effective extraction of membrane protein, selective isolation of glycopeptides and mass spectrometric characterization of glycosylation are challenging current analytical techniques. In this study, a systematic approach was developed which combined an integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction (HILIC SPE) for simultaneous detergent removal and glycopeptides enrichment, and mass spectrometric identification of both protein N-glycosylation sites and site-specific glycan structure. The HILIC SPE condition was optimized to enable the use of high concentration of strong detergents, such as SDS and Triton X-100, to dissolve highly hydrophobic membrane proteins, thus increasing the yield of membrane protein extraction. We illustrated the performance of this approach for the study of membrane protein glycosylation from human embryonic kidney cell lines (HEK 293T). 200 µg total protein digest was processed using this approach, leading to the identification of 813 N-glycosylation sites from 568 proteins within two experimental replicates. Furthermore, 177 glycopeptides representing 82 N-glycosides with both glycan composition and peptide sequence were identified by high energy collision dissociation. Andrew Crowell, A. Doucette and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada. Disposable two-stage spin cartridges for protein purification in a top-down proteomics workflow Proper proteome analysis by mass spectrometry depends on upstream sample manipulations, including protein concentration and purification. Cleanup strategies typically rely on chromatography, not only for the relative high recovery and purification efficiency, but also for ease of use through automation. Unfortunately, with chromatographic approaches sample loss is an expected occurrence, especially for high molecular weight and/or hydrophobic (membrane) proteins. By contrast, organic solvent-assisted protein precipitation is extremely effective at protein purification with minimal sample loss. Quantitative protein recovery is possible, though it is highly dependent on the pipetting skills of the individual. It is desired to create a robust protein precipitation protocol by automating the process, thereby maximizing recovery and purity on a high throughput scale. This presentation introduces a disposable two-stage centrifugal cartridge, tailored to automate the precipitation process. The ProTrap XG comprises an upper filtration cartridge together with a removable reversed phase cartridge, attaching at its base. Protein samples are mixed with organic solvents in the upper filter chamber, which induces precipitation of proteins. The pellet is retained by the filter, while contaminants in the supernatant are discarded to waste through a brief spin in a desktop centrifuge. Multiple devices can be used simultaneously, improving throughput while maintaining consistency between samples. Following precipitation, protein pellets are re-solubilized and subject to final purification through the reverse phase cartridge which is re-attached to the base of the filter. The effectiveness of the ProTrap XG for recovery and purification of intact proteins in a top-down proteomics workflow was discussed. Alan Doucette, A. Crowell and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada Automated SDS removal, tryptic digestion and sample cleanup in a disposable two-stage spin cartridge Prior to MS analysis, bottom up proteomics relies on a significant number of sample manipulations including protein purification and preconcentration, fractionation, digestion, and subsequent cleanup. Each of these steps comes with a risk of loss of analyte and adds to the complexity of the proteomics workflow. The GELFrEE fractionation system is a mass-based electrophoretic platform which relies on an SDS-containing sample buffer to isolate protein fractions in solution. Our group has recommended the use of solvent-induced protein precipitation (acetone or chloroform/methanol/water) to eliminate the SDS ahead of LC/MS analysis. However, protein precipitation is a particularly tedious and highly variable technique for the recoverery of proteins in high yield. Subsequent resolubilization of the protein pellet is also challenging, and further jeopardizes the success of MS characterization. To facilitate protein precipitation we have developed a two-stage filtration and chromatographic extraction cartridge designed to work in a conventional benchtop centrifuge. The device automates the recovery of proteins, ensuring uniform purification on a high throughput scale. Protein samples are precipitated in an upper chamber, with residual contaminants (including SDS) flushed through the bottom filter. At this point the base filter is capped, trapping proteins in the upper vial for subsequent resolubilization. A combination of urea and trypsin ensures complete digestion of the pellet. The peptides are then subject to reversed phase purification; here we link a chromatographic cartridge to the base of the filter chamber. Key figures of merit of the device, including the purity of SDS removal, protein recovery, digestion efficiency and peptide recovery, were demonstrated through standard and complex proteome mixtures. Don Douglas1, C. Gao1, K. Kim1, H. Qiao2 and N. Konenkov3 1Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 2Ionics Mass Spectrometry Group, Bolton, ON, Canada 3Physical and Mathematical Department, Ryazan State University, Ryazan, Russia Space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps with mass selective axial ejection (Invited Talk) Experiments and ion trajectory calculations have been used to better understand and to reduce space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps operated with axial ejection. If too many ions are stored in a linear trap their mutual repulsion counteracts the trapping forces and the ion oscillation frequencies decrease. Consequently higher trapping radio frequency voltages are required to bring ions into resonance for ejection, and ions appear at higher apparent masses in a spectrum. At the same time the mass resolution decreases. For the experiments of interest here the mass shifts are about 1 at m/z 609, and the electric field from space charge is a small perturbation to the trapping field. Experiments show that a proper choice of operating conditions can reduce but not eliminate mass shifts. Trajectory calculations of ion motion with various models of the ion cloud provide additional insight, and show that the space charge field is nonlinear and that therefore the ion oscillation frequency depends on oscillation amplitude. Anything that expands the ion cloud produces lower electric fields from space charge, and hence lowers mass shifts. Experiments in progress show that using broadband excitation, dipole dc, or two-frequency excitation to expand the ion cloud gives modest reductions in mass shifts and improvements in resolution. Norman Dovichi, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana, USA Capillary electrophoresis for high throughput proteomics (Keynote Lecture) Most proteomics studies employ LC/ESI-MS/MS analysis of peptides. We are investigating capillary electrophoresis (CE)/ESI-MS/MS as an alternative technology for bottom-up proteomics. We first developed a rugged and sensitive CE/ESI interface based on electrokinetically pumped sheath-flow.[1] This interface operates in the nanospray domain, produces low-attomole detection limits for CE separation of peptides, and offers great flexibility in separation buffer conditions.[1,2] We then analyzed the secreted protein fraction of M. marinum.[3] We pre-fractionated the secretome to produce simpler samples that were better suited to the separation performance of capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE). The results of the analysis of 12 fractions were compared with conventional UPLC analysis of the unfractionated sample. CZE produced slightly more protein identifications in a slightly shorter time period than UPLC. 140 protein groups were identified by CZE/ESI-MS/MS in three hours from this sample. We have recently improved the system. In the single-shot analysis of the E coli proteome, we identified >1,300 peptides and >300 protein groups in a 50-min CZE separation.[4] We have employed this separation system to analyze seven fractions from the E. coli proteome.[5] This system produced 23,706 peptide spectra matches, 4,902 peptide IDs, and 871 protein group IDs in 350 min analysis time. In an alternative separations scheme, we employed capillary isoelectric focusing for the analysis of host-cell proteins in commercial biopharma products; this system identified 37 host cell proteins in a total sample preparation time of 4 hours.[6] [1] Wojcik et al. Rapid Communun. Mass Spectrom. 2010, 24, 2554. [2] Wojcik et al. Talanta 2012, 88, 324. [3] Li et al. Anal. Chem. 2012, 84, 1616. [4] Zhu et al. Anal. Chem. 2013, 85, 2569. [5] Yan et al. In revision [6] Zhu et al. Talanta 2012, 98, 253. Ann M. English, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada Platform development to monitor age- and oxidant-related protein post-translational modifications: The case of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (Invited Talk) Non-enzymatic protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) increase with age and are frequently associated with age-dependent diseases. For example, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) aggregation has been reported in patients with late onset neurodegenerative diseases such as sporadic or familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's. Non-enzymatic PTMs in CuZnSOD are linked to its aggregation and hence to the development of ALS and Alzheimer's. Yeast is a widely used model of cellular and organismal aging that can be readily exploited in platforms to monitor age-related PTMs in a cellular environment. Furthermore, yeast and human CuZnSODs share high sequence homology but, since yeast ages much faster, we are exploring age-related PTMs in the yeast enzyme. By gel filtration of cell lysates we isolated a high-mass inactive form of CuZnSOD, and found by FT-MS that it is oxidized at cysteine 146 (C146) to the sulfonic acid. Importantly, C146 is also found in the sulfonic acid form in CuZnSOD isolated from the brains of Alzheimer's patients[1] and the C146R mutation has been reported in familial ALS.[2] Notably, C146 forms a C146-C55 disulfide bridge that is critical in stabilizing the native CuZnSOD homodimer. In high-mass CuZnSOD, we additionally observe oxidation of histidine 71 (H71) and H120, which ligate the active-site zinc and catalytic copper, respectively. We hypothesize that age-induced oxidation of C146, H71, and H120 contributes to the development of ALS as well as Alzheimer's by releasing the redox-active catalytic copper, which would probably increase oxidative stress and CuZnSOD aggregation. By monitoring the GFP (green fluorescent protein) fluorescence of CuZnSOD-GFP from an isogenic yeast strain expressing this fusion protein, we noted that the cellular content of high-mass CuZnSOD-GFP increases ~10-fold from day 3 to day 7. We are currently characterizing CuZnSOD and CuZnSOD-GFP from yeast cells over several weeks to establish if aggregated CuZnSOD continues to accumulate in old cells. CuZnSOD activity also is known to be inhibited by inflammatory processes in the airway epithelium, and C146 oxidation was reported in CuZnSOD purified from the erythrocytes of asthmatic patients.[3] To mimic the inflammatory state of asthma we are examining modification of CuZnSOD after challenging yeast cells with H2O2. Our highly sensitive LC/MS platform that tracks protein modification as yeast ages is providing in-depth information at the molecular level that is critical towards understanding the functional significance of PTMs in the cellular context. [1] Choi et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005, 280, 11648. [2] Andersen et al. Amyotroph. Lateral Scler. Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2003, 4, 62. [3] Ghosh et al. Antioxid Redox Signal 2012. DOI: 10.1089/ars.2012.4566. Daniele Fabris, The RNA Institute, State University of New York, The University at Albany, Albany, NY, USA MS-based strategies for the elucidation of nucleic acid?ligand interactions (Invited Talk) Ribozymes and riboswitches have keenly demonstrated that the function of nucleic acids is not always linked to the genetic information coded in their sequence, but can also depend on their 3D structure and ability to interact with a variety of species present in the cell. Owing to the versatility afforded by mass spectrometry (MS) in RNA analysis this platform is rapidly assuming a prominent role in the investigation of structure-function relationships, which is realized by supporting the full characterization of natural and man-made RNAs as well as the elucidation of specific interactions with cognate nucleic acids, proteins, metals, and small molecule ligands. The talk illustrated strategies for accessing functional information for nucleic acid complexes and discussed possible hurdles and experimental pitfalls. Examples were provided in which MS-based techniques are employed to characterize relevant interactions that could represent new therapeutic targets. Other examples illustrated approaches for elucidating the effects of metals and common nucleic acid ligands on such interactions. The experimental design necessary to assess the strength of binding/inhibition in either comparative or absolute fashion was also discussed. The potential afforded by ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) techniques was evaluated in the investigation of possible conformational effects associated with ligand binding. Owing to the extremely low sample consumption and high speed of analysis, these capabilities will be expected to greatly increase the utilization of MS-based approaches in drug discovery and therapeutics development based on specific nucleic acid interactions. Bella Groisman, J. Petschnigg and I. Stagljar, Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada A novel mammalian split-ubiquitin proteomics approach as a tool for functional investigation of signaling pathways in human cells The membrane yeast two-hybrid system (MYTH) is a robust technique for the identification of protein partners of integral membrane proteins. However, its implementation for mammalian proteins is limited due to differences between mammalian and yeast cells. Here we present a novel split-ubiquitin-based mammalian membrane two-hybrid (MaMTH) technology that enables investigation of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in human cells. Briefly, the specific interaction between membrane 'bait' and 'prey' proteins, coupled to ubiquitin halves, allows reconstitution of functional ubiquitin. Subsequently, deubiquitinating enzymes cleave off the transcription factor coupled to the bait, thus activating reporter gene transcription. Using the MaMTH technology we successfully confirmed known PPIs of membrane proteins from various cellular compartments. Here we focus on the ErbB members of receptor tyrosine kinases, mainly on the EGFR wild type (WT) versus the oncogenic kinase-active L858R version ? dynamic interactomes and functional analysis. We demonstrate that MaMTH allows sensitive detection of phospho-dependent and drug-inhibited interactions. We show that EGFR WT recruits Shc1 adaptor in serum-dependent manner, while oncogenic L858R shows constitutively stimuli-independent binding. Furthermore, consistent with clinical data EGFR (L858R) interaction with Shc1 was efficiently inhibited by the EGFR small molecule inhibitor erlotinib (tarceva), while the secondary L858RT790M resistant mutant was not affected by the drug. In addition, we created a dynamic interactome of EGFR WT versus L858R with 200 predicted interactors, data which is of high importance for the cancer signaling scientific community. In summary, here we presented a novel powerful proteomics technology, which we are planning to develop as tool for high-throughput proteomic research as well as a drug screening platform. David Juncker, Department of Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montréal, Canada Antibody colocalization microarray (ACM): A scalable cross-reactivity free nano-ELISA platform for proteomics studies Quantification of proteins with high specificity in blood can be performed using sandwich immunossays (e.g. ELISA). Multiplex sandwich immunoassays (MSI) were developed to measure multiple proteins at once, but cross-reactivity among reagents is known to limit accuracy and reproducibility. Here we explain the origin of the cross-reactivity in MSI, experimentally show the consequences, and introduce a novel assay format called the antibody Colocalization Microarray (ACM) that eliminates it. In MSI a slide is patterned with an array of capture antibodies, incubated with a sample, followed by a mixture of detection antibodies. Here we analyze the combinatorial interactions between detection and capture antibodies and antigens, and find that it increases quadratically with the number of targets. In an array with 14 targets we found widespread cross-reactivity. To overcome the cross-reactivity we introduce the ACM where all detection antibodies are individually spotted with high accuracy onto their corresponding capture antibody spot. Each spot on the ACM replicates an ELISA but using only 1 nL of reagent, constituting a Nano-ELISA. An ACM with 50 targets was shown experimentally to overcome cross-reactivity and to rival the sensitivity of ELISA. The ACM was validated for biomarker studies by measuring proteins in the serum of breast cancer patients and controls, and a candidate biomarker panel was identified. It is currently being used to identify biomarkers for traumatic brain injury. As the number of targets on the ACM is increased easily, it may become a powerful tool for biomarker discovery and validation. John Klassen, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada New MS tools for the discovery and characterization of protein-carbohydrate interactions (Invited Talk) The direct electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) assay has emerged as a powerful tool for quantifying protein-ligand interactions in solution. The assay is based on the direct detection and quantification of free and ligand-bound protein ions by ESI-MS for solutions of known initial concentrations of protein and ligand. A brief overview of the ESI-MS assay was presented, along with recent methodological advances that overcome the major sources of error in the binding measurements. A high-throughput ESI-MS approach to library screening was also presented. The catch-and-release (CaR)-ESI-MS assay involves incubating a protein with a library of compounds in solution, detecting the protein-ligand complexes by ESI-MS, activating the complexes to release the ligand. The identities of ligands are determined from measured molecular weights and, if needed, the fragmentation spectra and ion mobility arrival time distributions. The CaR-ESI-MS assay allows for the sensitive, rapid (<1 min analysis time) and direct detection and quantification of specific interactions for libraries containing hundreds of compounds. An overview of the assay was presented followed by examples highlighting the application of the assay for the discovery of carbohydrate ligands for a variety of bacterial proteins. Finally, the extension of the CaR-ESI-MS assay for the discovery of host cell receptors was described. The assay involves direct ESI-MS analysis of aqueous solutions of soluble proteins and insoluble receptors, which are incorporated into nanodiscs. The application of this assay for the detection of interactions between bacterial toxins and glycosphingolipids was presented. X. Chris Le, H. Zhang, F. Li, B. Dever, X. Li, C. Wang, M. Wagner, Z. Wang and X.-F. Li, Departments of Chemistry and of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada DNA-mediated binding assays for nucleic acids and proteins (Invited Talk) The detection of nucleic acids and proteins is fundamental for studying their functions and for the development of molecular diagnostics. Determining these biomolecules in complex systems requires exquisite analytical specificity and sensitivity. To meet these requirements we have devoted much effort to affinity binding assays that incorporate target recognition, signal transduction, and in situ amplification. Here we focus on homogeneous binding assays, which are carried out in solution, without the need for separation, immobilization, or washing steps. Such homogeneous binding assays can be performed in a single tube/vial or in live cells. They are potentially applicable to point-of-care diagnostics. For example, a binding-induced DNA assembly enables ultrasensitive detection of molecular targets and construction of unique target-dependent nanoreactors. Two DNA motifs that are conjugated to specific affinity probes assemble preferentially only when a specific target triggers a binding event. The binding-induced assembly of the DNA motifs results in the formation of a highly stable hairpin structure, enabling effective differentiation of the target-specific assembly from the background. This strategy pushes the limit of the state-of-art dynamic DNA nanotechnology to include molecules beyond DNA. The ability to generate dynamic DNA assembly by non-DNA molecules opens up opportunities for diverse potential applications, ranging from the construction of protein-induced nanodevices to the in situ detection of proteins and studies of molecular interactions. XingFang Li, W. Wang, Y. Quian and J. M. Boyd, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. Mass spectrometry methods for characterization and determination of disinfection byproducts in tap water and swimming pools Protection of public health requires disinfection of drinking water and recreation pools to effectively prevent water-borne diseases. However, common disinfection treatments unavoidably generate byproducts resulting from reactions between natural organic matter in the source water and disinfectants. The majority (~70%) of disinfection byproducts (DBPs) in treated water remain unidentified. Potential adverse health effects observed in epidemiological studies drive analytical research to identify and determine what DBPs may contribute to these health risks. Here we present the separation of and mass spectrometry methods to characterize emerging DBPs of toxicological relevance, and investigate the occurrence of these DBPs in swimming pools. The research demonstrated that personal care products contributed to the formation of some emerging DBPs such as halobenzoquinones. Yueqiao Fu, Lily Mats, Graham T. T. Gibson and Richard Oleschuk, Department of Chemistry, Queens University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada Multi-nano ESI, in pursuit of enhanced robustness, stability and sensitivity (Invited Talk) Electrospray ionization (ESI) as a soft ionization technique has been critical to mass spectrometry for analyzing biological macromolecules. NanoESI, which is operated at lower flow rates (nL/min), exhibits both higher ionization efficiency and higher sensitivity since the smaller initial electrospray droplets from the emitter afford increased surface charge per analyte molecule. To improve sensitivity and signal without decreasing flow rate, multiple electrosprays have been generated from multiple emitters by splitting one larger flow into smaller flows in the nanoESI regime. Based upon theoretical prediction and experimental results, the measured spray current generated from an emitter producing multiple Taylor cones (Itotal) is enhanced relative to the spray current from a single emitter (Is) at the same overall flow rate by a factor of the square root of the number of emitters (n). We have developed a series of multi-channeled emitters based upon silica and polymer microstructured fibers (MSFs). Custom-designed MSFs having holes in a radial pattern were fabricated using a 'stack and draw' technique, allowing multiple electrosprays from a single fiber. Polymer nozzles have been included in the silica MSF design to enhance nanoESI performance. A layer of polymer is first formed on the inner wall of each of the MSF channels followed by etching with hydrofluoric acid to expose the nozzles. The protruding highly cross-linked divinylbenzene nozzles produce true multi-nanoESI over a wide range of flow rates and mobile phase compositions and are compatible with high-resolution liquid chromatographic separations. Anthony Pawson, Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Using synthetic biology to study protein signaling networks (Plenary Lecture) The proteins involved in the transmission of signals within cells are typically complex, in the sense that they often possess multiple interaction and/or catalytic domains, and are directly or indirectly connected to numerous distinct proteins and other biomolecules such as phospholipids. We have used a variety of synthetic biology and proteomics techniques to investigate the importance of the multiple protein- and lipid-binding domains of the Grb2 adaptor protein and its target, the Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor Sos1, in controlling a key cell fate decision in early mammalian embryogenesis, namely the differentiation of primitive endoderm tissue. We find that these domains act cooperatively as a coincidence detector to ensure that fibroblast growth factor-dependent signals are transmitted at the right time and in the right place to elicit the appropriate formation of primitive endoderm. Guy Poirier, J.-P. Gagné, J. D. Chapman and D. R. Goodlett, Department of Molecular Biology, Medical Biochemistry and Pathology, Laval University, Québec, PQ, Canada High accuracy mass spectrometry provides direct evidence for site-specific auto-ADP-ribosylation of PARP-1 Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is an abundant chromatin-associated protein involved in a variety of pathways such as DNA damage response (DDR), transcription regulation, cell cycle progression and apoptotic cell death. Upon DNA damage induction, DNA-dependent PARPs synthesize an anionic poly(ADP-ribose) (pADPr) polymer to which several proteins bind with the subsequent formation of pADPr-associated multiprotein complexes. PARP hydrolyzes NAD?+?in the formation of pADPr on nuclear proteins such as DNA repair enzymes, chromatin remodelers, histones, transcription factors and PARP-1 itself. The covalent attachment of pADPr to a substrate protein alters its physicochemical characteristics, which results in functional consequences on its biological activity. The exact nature of the ADP-ribose linkage catalyzed by PARP-1 has been the subject of controversy and debate. To date, it is still unclear which of the amino acid side chains are directly targeted by the ADP-ribose transferase activity of PARP-1. Radiolabeled NAD?+?has been a cornerstone in research for tracking and visualizing PARP-catalyzed post-translational protein modification in vitro, but the ability of the negatively charged pADPr to strongly interact with proteins in a non-covalent manner is a cause of confusion when interpreting experimental results. To truly begin to understand the exact nature of the poly(ADP-ribosly)ation reaction, there is a need for more conclusive mass spectrometry evidence of PARP-catalyzed protein modifications. Mapping of these modifications to specific amino acid residues on PARP-1 and other protein substrates of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reactions presents significant challenges due to the complex structural heterogeneity of pADPr polymers as well as a loss of amino acid sequencing information that occurs during several mass spectrometry peptide activation techniques commonly implemented for fragmentation. Here, we demonstrate a novel method for the identification of PARP-1 auto-poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation sites utilizing high mass accuracy mass spectrometry. By employing an enzymatically driven simplification of the pADPr modifications, we reduce the corresponding complexity of analyzing modified tryptic peptides at the level of the tandem mass spectrum, which in turn enables us to effectively localize exact sites of PARP-1-catalyzed poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. In conjunction with a phosphopeptide-like enrichment strategy that captures modified peptides, we are able to successfully locate numerous sites of PARP-1 automodification in a high-throughput proteomics screen suitable for universally available mass spectrometry and data analysis pipelines. Jeffrey Smith, K. Wasslen, S. Wood and J. Manthorpe, Department of Chemistry, Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi): Rapid on-column methylation of peptides and proteins to permit quantitative analysis using tandem mass spectrometry Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi) is an inexpensive and rapid on-column chemical derivatization technique to permit peptide methylation and quantitation. TrEnDi produces trimethylated primary amines that enhance and simplify label-free quantitation strategies via improved ionization through the formation of fixed quaternary ammonium ions. TrEnDi has been optimized on a microfluidic platform to successfully derivatize peptides from a protein digest with nearly 100% complete N-terminal methylation. Other amino acid side chains with pKa values of approximately 10.5 or less were also methylated. MS/MS analysis confirmed that N-termini trimethylated peptides fragmented to preferentially form the a2 ion, permitting a significant increase in sensitivity when scanning in the MRM mode. This allowed us to perform label-free MRM scanning of candidate peptides without prior knowledge of their fragmentation patterns. The trimethylated peptide N-termini were found to be very stable. However, hydrolysis of the newly formed methyl esters occurred over time. Hydrolysis was assisted using base hydrolysis in order to drive the derivatized peptides to homogeneity. To test the analytical sensitivity of derivatized peptides via MRM scanning, several low concentrations of the modified peptides were spiked into a series of more complex peptide solutions and the ability of the MRM method to obtain quantitative data was assessed. Our results have revealed that the trimethylated peptide N-termini produced strong MRM transitions and were identifiable at low concentrations, even in the presence of highly concentrated interferences. E. Bonneil1, F. Lamoliatte1,2, J. Saba4, O. Caron-Lizotte1 and Dr P. Thibault1,2,3, Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer1, and Departments of Chemistry2 and of Biochemistry3, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada, and Thermo Fisher Scientific4 Quantitative proteomics using FAIMS and isotopic labeling (Invited Talk) Isotopic labeling is a commonly used method in quantitative proteomics to profile changes in protein abundances across different cell conditions. Isotopic labeling can be performed using chemical reagents that target specific functional group on peptides (MS2 quantitation) or via metabolic labeling (stable isotope labeling of cell cultures, SILAC) where cells are cultured in media containing in either light or heavy isotopes of amino acids (MS quantitation). The predictable mass differences between peptides (or fragment ions) from two or more experimental conditions enable a direct quantification and provide precise functional information and temporal changes in the proteome. However, the dynamic range and precision of these quantitative measurements can be hampered by the increasing complexity of the mass spectra and the presence of co-eluting isobaric ions. In this context we evaluated the analytical potentials of high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) in large-scale quantitative proteomics experiments using stable isotope labeling on a LTQ-Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. The ability of FAIMS to separate multiply protonated compounds from singly charged background ions provided a unique advantage to extend the dynamic range of peptide detection while reducing the complexity of LC/MS peptide maps. FAIMS analyses performed on cell extracts derivatized with tandem mass tags (TMT)-6plex isotopic label reagent or grown under SILAC conditions provided improved quantitation and dynamic range compared with conventional nanoelectrospray. Quantitative proteomics analyses performed using FAIMS resulted in a reduction of mixed precursor ions and provided confident reporter ion measurements with increased peptide identification. Examples of application were presented for monitoring changes in the proteome of yeast and human cells. Ruijun Tian, Y. Shi, T. Hunter and T. Pawson, The Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Exploring bi-directional signaling in pancreatic tumor microenvironment by quantitative proteomics Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is one of the most lethal human cancers with resistance to many chemotherapeutic drugs. This drug resistance effect is believed to be partly caused by stromal-cancer cells interaction in pancreatic tumor microenvironment. Cell-cell interactions are often mediated by protein molecules expressed by one cell that are recognized by specific receptors present on neighboring cells. This intercellular communication activates specific signaling pathways through the induction of dynamic post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation and by protein-protein interactions. Here, we present the development of unbiased quantitative proteomics approaches to characterize a dynamic secretome and critical intracellular signaling in a simulated pancreatic tumor microenviroment in culture. A number of secreted ligand/receptor pairs have been explored which have significant effects on cancer cells proliferation. Our work establishes a generally applicable strategy for studying stromal-cancer cells communication and provides valuable resources for systematically understanding dysfunctional signaling networks in tumor microenvironment in a context closer to physiological conditions than was previously possible. Sarah Trimpin, Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA Matrix assisted ionization without a laser, heat, or voltage: identification of peptides and proteins directly from tissue (Invited Talk) A few years ago we introduced an ionization method for use in mass spectrometry (MS), applicable to volatile and nonvolatile compounds, which uses laser ablation of a matrix/analyte mixture similar to atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) but which produces mass spectra nearly identical to electrospray ionization (ESI). This new technique called laserspray ionization (LSI) has advantages of speed of analysis, high spatial resolution for imaging, mass range extension, and improved fragmentation common with multiply charged ions. LSI using the proper matrix was also shown to be capable of imaging multiply charged ions using atmospheric pressure or vacuum MALDI sources. Crucial for the production of highly charged ions are desolvation conditions to remove matrix from charged matrix/analyte clusters. By using a matrix that readily sublimes, we have now extended matrix-assisted ionization by eliminating the need for a laser or even heat to initiate ionization. Ions are spontaneously formed from a solid matrix/analyte material when introduced to a vacuum MALDI source without need of a laser, or to a modified ESI source without use of voltage. This matrix assisted ionization vacuum (MAIV) method produces similar charge states and drift times of ions, as determined by ion mobility spectrometry-MS, to ESI. Compounds at least as large as bovine serum albumin (67 kDa) become converted into highly charged gas-phase ions when exposed in the MAIV matrix to vacuum conditions. Such a simple ionization method, requiring only the vacuum necessary for the proper functioning of the mass spectrometer, may prove useful for analysis of single cells and in clinical applications. A possible mechanism for ionization involving sublimation/evaporation and charge generation through the mechanism that produces triboluminescence was discussed. Dietrich Volmer, Institute of Bioanalytical Chemistry, Saarland University, Saarbrücken, Germany New methods for improved determination of metabolic markers using advanced analytical mass spectrometry techniques (Invited Talk) New developments in metabolomics and metabolic profiling techniques have led to the discovery of metabolic biomarkers indicative of physiological or pathological change, e.g. onset of disease or nutritional effects of a specific diet. Experimental approaches for discovering new biomarkers usually involve proteomics or metabolomics techniques that detect differences between sample sets rather than measuring specific compounds as performed in traditional hypothesis-driven research. Unfortunately, finding metabolites present in significantly different levels between sample sets is often complicated by experimental variables such as method reproducibility, types of tissue sampling technique, analytical sample preparation technique, ion suppression phenomena, person-to-person or animal-to-animal metabolic variations, isobaric or isomeric noise, etc. All these error sources, variations or artefacts can lead to false assignment of metabolites or biomarkers and random and systematic errors during quantification. This presentation focused on our research on metabolite profiling techniques and sources of analytical errors. It presented examples for applications such as quantitative analysis and fingerprinting of vitamin D metabolites, microcystin toxin biomarkers and lipids. In addition, novel technical solutions involving ?magnetic? media (fluids and beads), ion mobility spectrometry and chemical labeling techniques were highlighted in this presentation. Fangjun Wang1, H. Zou1, M. Ye1 and Daniel Figeys2 1Key Lab of Separation Science for Analytical Chemistry, National Chromatography R 2Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology, Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. Recent development of technologies and methods for proteome analysis (Invited Talk) Technologies and methods play a highly important role for proteome analysis. Recent developments of technologies and methods for proteome analyses in our labs were presented:Combined technologies and methods, such as multi-enzyme digestion, different enrichment methods, multi-dimensional LC separation and different types of mass spectrometers, for comprehensive glycoproteome and phosphoproteome analysis of human liver; the largest dataset of protein phosphorylation and glycosylation for human liver was achieved.Solid-phase based technology by integrating all of the digestion, enrichment, and deglycosylation together with LC/MS analysis, was developed for glycoproteome analysis; both the identification sensitivity and the throughput were improved greatly.A solid-phase based labeling approach, by integration of glycopeptides and phosphopeptides enrichment and stable isotope labeling on adsorbent beads, was developed for relative quantification of protein glycosylation and phosphorylation.Six-plex stable isotope labeling was achieved by a two-stage stable isotope labeling strategy of SILAC and dimethylation isotope labeling, which allows six different protein samples (six-plex) to be reliably labeled and simultaneously quantified at MS1 level. This six-plex isotope labeling strategy was applied to investigate the dynamics of protein turnover, and the 50% turnover times of 1365 proteins within HeLa cells were successfully obtained. Hailin Wang, S. Liu, B. Zhao, D. Zhang, C. Li, State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. Insights on Isotachophoresis Kinetics from Monitoring Non-uniform Motion of single DNA molecules (Invited Talk) Isotachophoresis (ITP) has wide applications in chemistry and life sciences due to its pre-concentration function. A simplified ITP system consists of a leading electrolyte (LE) and a terminating electrolyte (TE). For LE and TE to migrate at the same velocity (v), the respective E in each zone must adapt to their electrophoretic mobility (?) according to Eqn. (1): The LE zone with a high electrophoretic mobility will have a low E, and the TE zone with a low electrophoretic mobility will have a high E. Current literature commonly assumes that the adaption of E is fast and is not the rate-limiting step. However, actual adaption kinetics of ITP has not been studied yet. Moreover, it is not clear how electroosmotic flow affects the kinetics of ITP. By taking advantage of single molecule imaging, we for the first time examined the changes in electric field and the resulting non-uniform motion of single DNA molecules in capillary isotachophoresis. The individual DNA molecules passing the detection window are consecutively imaged in real time at 50-millisecond intervals. Since the migration velocity of DNA is directly proportional to the applied electric field strength (E), imaging the movement of DNA provides necessary information for understanding the distribution of E throughout the capillary. This approach allows us to gain insights into the kinetics of varying-field ITP and enables us to develop a strategy for focusing and detecting single DNA molecules and DNA damages. John Wilkins, Departments of Internal Medicine, Biochemistry and Medical Genetics, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada Linking protein composition and functionality in biology and medicine (Invited Talk) The repertoire and functional state of proteins expressed by an organism ultimately determine their phenotype. Thus, the inclusion of measures of protein activity is an essential step to developing valid models of biological systems in disease and health. While genomics and proteomics provide detailed information on potential and current protein composition, these approaches generally offer limited insight regarding protein functional states. However, many proteins possess catalytic activities that are stringently controlled by mechanisms that restrict substrate accessibility to the active site. This is the central premise of activity-based protein profiling. The use of enzyme activity as a predictor of organ function or health offers several advantages in the clinical environment. The assays can be highly specific because of the structural features of their substrates. The high substrate turnover numbers of enzymes provides an amplification mechanism that increases assay sensitivity. Activity-based profiling offers a means of probing clinical samples for novel enzymatic activities as new reporters. Some of our experiences in the application of this approach profiling assessing renal function were presented. The identification of a protein, even an active one, does not necessarily address the questions of ?What does the protein do?? and ?Why is it needed??. These questions can be further complicated by the observations that function(s) are often context specific. We have used integrated proteomic, activity based protein profiling and functional genomics approaches in an effort to examine lymphocyte migration, a process that is central to normal immune function. Derek Wilson, T. Rob, D. Golemi-Kotra and P. Kama-Gill, Department of Chemistry, York University, Toronto, Canada Microfluidics-enabled, sub-second hydrogen/deuterium exchange pulse labeling reveals allosteric 'hotspots' in enzymes Regulation of metabolic pathways is achieved by modulation of enzyme activity, commonly via direct interactions at the active site. However, a substantial number of enzymes are also sensitive to changes at locations well removed from the site of catalysis. These 'allosteric' effects are easily detected, but are exceedingly difficult to characterize because they are usually driven by subtle changes in conformation or dynamics. In this work we use a new microfluidic chip that incorporates a bottom-up workflow with sub-second H/D exchange pulse labeling to probe time-dependent structural and dynamic changes in the beta-lactamase enzyme TEM-1 upon inhibitor binding. Changes in deuterium uptake were noted from the first time-point after acylation, corresponding to both increases and decreases in labeling ('loosening' and 'tightening' of the structure, respectively). As the acyl-enzyme was allowed to age, time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were detected, indicating the presence of slow structural changes occurring up to 2 s after acylation. In general, peptides showing instantaneous changes in uptake were located near the active site, while peptides that exhibited time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were located at the periphery of the enzyme. In the active site, patterns of increasing and decreasing rigidity explain the roles of Arg244 and Asn276 in the inhibitory mechanism. At the periphery, slow changes in uptake are observed specifically in allosteric 'hotspots' that include residues known from mutational analysis to play a role in TEM-1 catalytic efficiency. David Wishart, Departments of Biological Sciences and Computing Science, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Clearing the biomarker barrier: Moving biomarkers from the bench to the bedside (Invited Talk) One of the great promises of the 'omics' era was the delivery of a gene or a protein to diagnose every disease. Unfortunately this hasn't quite happened. While our understanding of the etiology of disease has improved tremendously our ability to diagnose or predict disease has not. This has a lot to do with our inability to translate biomarkers from the bench to the bedside. Indeed, after nearly 20 years of work and more than $5 billion in investment, there have been only a few microarray tests and, as yet, no protein-array or proteomic tests approved by the FDA for diseases diagnosis. On the other hand, dozens of metabolomic biomarkers have successfully made the transition from the lab to the clinic. Why? This presentation discussed some of the secrets to the success of metabolomics in clearing the 'biomarker barrier'. In particular, some key guidelines for designing, performing and reporting biomarkers in a biomarker study, as well as some advice with regard to the process of moving biomarkers from the laboratory to the clinic, were provided. Some examples of how quantitative metabolomics is being used to identify biomarkers for a wide range of diseases, and the status of my lab's efforts to try to move some these biomarkers into clinical testing, were also discussed. THE KEN STANDING AWARD LECTURE (Sponsored by the University of Manitoba) Lars Konermann, Departments of Chemistry and of Biochemistry, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada Electrospray mass spectrometry as a readout of protein structure and function Proteins are nanomachines that carry out countless tasks in every living organism. To perform these functions, the linear amino acid chain of each protein has to fold into a highly specific three-dimensional structure. On the other hand, misfolding and aggregation are associated with diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. X-ray crystallography remains the gold standard for obtaining high-resolution structural information. However, the data generated in this way do not properly reflect the highly dynamic nature of proteins, which is a key prerequisite for biological function. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) provides a number of avenues for exploring protein structure, function, folding, and dynamics. Our laboratory specializes in the use of hydrogen exchange and covalent labeling techniques. This presentation discussed time-resolved investigations that provide detailed insights into the mechanisms of protein folding. The area of membrane protein structure and function, and the use of ESI-MS for probing biological self-assembly processes, were also discussed. In addition, recent advances in understanding the physical processes that allow the formation of gaseous biomolecular ions during ESI were presented. THE BILL DAVIDSON GRADUATE STUDENT TRAVEL AWARD (Sponsored by ABSciex) Feng Li, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dr X. Chris Le, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dynamic DNA assemblies mediated by binding-induced DNA strand displacement Dynamic DNA assemblies have shown promising potential to regulate cell activities, deliver therapeutic compounds, and amplify detection signals for molecular diagnostics and imaging. However, such applications of dynamic DNA assembly systems have been limited to nucleic acids and a few small molecules. It is challenging to construct dynamic DNA assemblies that are responsive to proteins. We have developed a binding-induced DNA strand displacement strategy that can convert protein binding to the release of a predesigned output DNA at room temperature with high conversion efficiency and low background. This strategy allows us to construct dynamic DNA assembly systems that are able to respond to specific protein binding, opening an opportunity to expand the existing dynamic DNA nanotechnology to proteins for diverse applications. We have applied this strategy to design a binding-induced DNA strand displacement beacon and a binding-induced DNA circuit, both of which are triggered by protein binding. We have demonstrated the detection of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and prostate specific antigen (PSA). Further applications could be in the area of point-of-care analysis of proteins that could be performed under ambient temperature and without requiring the use of enzymes for signal generation and/or amplification. POSTER PRESENTATIONS J. Anichina, A. Schreiber, R. Bonner and T. Sakuma High-resolution tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the interactions of oligonucleotides with selected river basin specific pollutants E. Forsberg and J. Brennan Bio-solid phase extraction and information dependent tandem mass spectrometry for the identification of enzyme inhibitors in complex mixtures H. Li, S. Bergeron, and D. Juncker Snap chip 2.0: Double microarray-to-microarray transfer for easy-to-use, high-density antibody colocalization microarrays P. Liuni and D. J. Wilson Investigating catalysis-linked dynamics in yeast alcohol dehydrogenase by measuring kinetic isotope effects using time-resolved ESI-MS with H/D exchange. P. S. Lo, V. Laforte, S. Bergeron, J. Marcoux and D. Juncker Using the antibody colocalization microarray to measure proteins in complex samples from severe traumatic brain injury patients Z. Ning, D. Seebun, B. Hawley, C.-K. Chiang and D. Figeys From cells to peptides: 'One-stop' integrated proteomic processing using Amphipols D.J. Orton, J.P. Rogers and A.A. Doucette A dual capillary nanospray interface for improved throughput in LC/MS A. Sardar iTRAQ coupled 2D-LC-MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis reveals proteome changes associated Leishmania donovani promastigote adaptation to oxidative and nitrosative stress A. M. Smith and J.D. Brennan Development of a multiplexed kinase assay via MALDI-MS/MS detection J. Song, X. Tang, L. Li, L.C. Palmer, D. Pinto and K. Chisholm OFFGEL peptide pre-fractionation is essential for proteomic approaches employing quantitative stable isotope dimethyl labeling and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in fruit proteomic research C. Stephan Pushing the frontier in ICP-MS applications: Counting and sizing nanoparticles using single particle ICP-MS D. Williams, S. Madler, L.V. DeSouza, A. Matta and K.W.M. Siu Intracellular signalling network expression profiling by LC/MS with a heavy isotope-labelled QconCAT internal standard Information about past and future symposia and conferences organized by ETP can be found at the website www.etpsymposium.org. Robert K. Boyd, Researcher Emeritus, National Research Council of Canada Chair, Science Advisory Committee, ETP
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Axtelius, B.
AU  - Söderfeldt, B.
AU  - Attström, R.
TI  - A multilevel analysis of factors affecting pocket probing depth in patients responding differently to periodontal treatment
JO  - Journal of Clinical Periodontology
VL  - 26
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1034/j.1600-051X.1999.260202.x
DO  - doi:10.1034/j.1600-051X.1999.260202.x
SP  - 67
EP  - 76
KW  - multi-level analysis
KW  - periodontitis
KW  - therapy-resistant
PY  - 1999
AB  - Abstract. 3 distinct levels are involved in the periodontal inflammatory process: site, tooth, and individual. By focusing attention on the levels in the population, multilevel or hierarchical modelling (MLM) enables the researcher to understand where and how the effects at the levels involved are occurring. The aim of this paper is therefore to analyse the progression of periodontal disease using analytical models that consider the level hierarchy. 22 patients with periodontitis, in previous reports described as either non-responsive or responsive to periodontal treatment, were investigated. In the multilevel modelling method (MLM), the site pocket probing depth (PPD) is summarised in 3 parameters: the overall mean, the between-individual variance, and the within-individual, between-site variance. The model can readily be extended to include independent variables for sites, teeth and individuals. If these variables are important determinants of PPD, their inclusion in the model will lead to a reduction in residual variances between sites, teeth and individuals. The PPDs were used for construction of a PPD change variable (cPPD). This variable, together with the final registrations of PPD (fPPD) alone, were used as dependent variables in the MLM. Independent predictor variables, 12 on site-level, 3 on tooth-level, and 19 on individual-level, were constructed. The total number of sites assessed was 2236 distributed on 559 teeth in 22 subjects. Initially, a fixed, fully unconditional model (models A and E) was assessed, where no predictor variables were specified at any level. Different random-intercept models (B-D, F-H) were then calculated where the independent variables were inserted in blocks relating to each level. The variance components at all 3 levels were significantly larger than zero. This indicates that MLM is recommended for analysing the present data. The inserted predictors showed 100% sensitivity relating to the subject-level variance. Subsequent testing of the patient with disease or at high risk of disease would have to focus on diagnostic tests aimed at the individual teeth and sites. These tests would need to have a balance of sensitivity and specificity. Thus, by using multilevel modelling, the theoretical understanding of important factors in the pathogenesis of periodontitis is stimulated.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lee, Wei Hao
AU  - O'Brien, Sharon
AU  - Skarin, Dmitry
AU  - Cheek, John A
AU  - Deitch, Jessica
AU  - Nataraja, Ramesh
AU  - Craig, Simon
AU  - Borland, Meredith L
AU  - on behalf of PREDICT
TI  - Accuracy of clinician gestalt in diagnosing appendicitis in children presenting to the emergency department
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 31
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.13220
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.13220
SP  - 612
EP  - 618
KW  - appendicitis
KW  - clinical scoring system
KW  - clinician gestalt
KW  - emergency department
KW  - paediatric
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Objective Abdominal pain is a common paediatric presentation to the ED. Accurate diagnosis of acute appendicitis is challenging, with the best-performing clinical scoring systems having sensitivities between 72% and 100%. The aim of this study is to assess the diagnostic accuracy of clinician gestalt according to seniority in diagnosing paediatric acute appendicitis in ED. Methods This is a prospective multi-centre observational study of clinician's prediction of appendicitis in children under the age of 16?years presenting to four EDs with abdominal pain over a 1 month period at each site. Clinician-estimated likelihood of acute appendicitis was compared with the final diagnosis determined by histopathology or operative findings and supplemented by telephone follow up for those without an operation. The primary outcome was diagnostic accuracy of clinician gestalt according to clinician seniority in diagnosing appendicitis. Results There were 381 children enrolled with completed clinician questionnaires, and 224 children had complete follow up or underwent appendicectomy. The median age was 9 years (interquartile range 6?12) and the incidence of appendicitis was 31/224 (13.8%, 95% confidence interval 9.3?18.4). The area under the curve (AUC), sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of clinician gestalt were 0.84 (0.76?0.91), 81% (63?93%), 76% (69?82%), 35% (28?42%) and 96% (92?98%), respectively, giving an overall diagnostic accuracy of 76% (70?82%). AUC stratified by clinician seniority (junior, intermediate and senior) were 0.89 (0.80?0.98), 0.82 (0.69?0.95) and 0.76 (0.56?0.96), respectively. Conclusions The diagnostic accuracy of ED clinician gestalt in paediatric appendicitis is comparable to current clinical scoring systems irrespective of seniority.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sherlock, C.
AU  - Mair, T.
TI  - Osseous cyst-like lesions/subchondral bone cysts of the phalanges
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 23
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3292.2010.00222.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3292.2010.00222.x
SP  - 191
EP  - 204
KW  - horse
KW  - osseous cyst-like lesion
KW  - subchondral bone cyst
KW  - phalanx
KW  - lameness
KW  - magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - foot
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary In the horse, the phalanges are the second most common location for the occurrence of osseous cyst-like lesions (OCLLs) after the medial femoral condyle of the stifle. Phalangeal OCLLs occur in a variety of locations, most of which are adjacent to, if not communicating with, a joint. The aetiology of these lesions is considered to be multifactorial by most authors. Horses with OCLLs demonstrate lameness of varying severity. Diagnostic analgesia should be used to localise the lameness. After localisation of the lameness, standard radiographic views of the isolated area should be performed. The radiographic characteristics of OCLLs are dependent on the stage of development of the OCLL; OCLLs may first be identified as a small lucent flattening or depression in the articular surface; however, they may progress to a circular, oval or conical single or multi chambered radiolucency within the bone. There may be a rim of radiodense sclerosis around the lucency. Diagnosis of some OCLLs may only be achieved using nonstandard radiographic views or may require advanced diagnostic imaging modalities such as computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Treatment of phalangeal cysts may be conservative or surgical. Surgical treatment options generally aim to prevent cyst enlargement and promote filling of the lesion with osseous material. Depending on the cyst, this can be performed arthroscopically or via an extra-articular approach. Occasionally, the severity of proximal interphalangeal joint OCLLs warrants surgical arthrodesis. Overall the prognosis for return to performance for horses with OCLLs ranges from 30?90% but is dependent on the breed, age and intended use of the horse, surface area of weightbearing cartilage affected, concurrent osteoarthritis within the joint and treatment administered.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Biz, Carlo
AU  - Maso, Giacomo
AU  - Gambato, Marisa
AU  - Belluzzi, Elisa
AU  - Pozzuoli, Assunta
AU  - Favero, Marta
AU  - Vigo, Marco
AU  - Ruggieri, Pietro
TI  - Challenging Surgical Treatment of Displaced Articular Tibial Plateau Fractures: Do Early Knee Radiographic Features Have a Predictive Value of the Mid-Term Clinical Functional Outcomes?
JO  - Orthopaedic Surgery
JA  - Orthop Surg
VL  - 11
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/os.12577
DO  - doi:10.1111/os.12577
SP  - 1149
EP  - 1162
KW  - Articular fractures
KW  - Open reduction and internal fixation
KW  - Post-traumatic osteoarthritis
KW  - Tibial plateau fractures
KW  - Tibial proximal fractures
PY  - 2019
AB  - Objective To evaluate mid-term radiographic and functional outcomes of tibial plateau fracture (TPF) patients treated with the open reduction internal fixation (ORIF) technique and to find predictive factors of clinical outcomes. Methods A retrospective, single-center study was performed enrolling a consecutive series of patients with diagnosis of TPF. All subjects were treated by ORIF between January 2010 and December 2015 at our level-1 healthcare trauma center. The inclusion criteria were: age between 18 and 75?years; ORIF technique used for articular TPF, type 41-B and 41-C, isolated or with associated injuries. The patients were divided in two groups, according to fracture patterns and compared. Their characteristics, radiographic and clinical outcomes were recorded. Radiographs 12?months after surgery were evaluated for reduction and alignment, and radiographs at 24?months to describe post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA). Functional outcomes were assessed using the visual analog scale (VAS), the Short Form 36 (SF-36), the knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (KOOS), and the American Knee Society score (AKSS) questionnaires. Return to work and sport activities were also investigated. Univariate and multivariate analysis were performed, and the statistical significance was defined as two-tailed P <?0.05. Results Forty-five patients were included, 29 males and 16 females; the mean age was 54.5?years. The mean follow-up was 57.18?months (range, 26?94). There were AO 41-B fractures (partial articular fractures) in more than half of the patients (66.67%), while the remaining 15 had AO 41-C fractures (complete articular fractures). The sub-type AO 41-B3 was the most common, reported in 62.22% of patients. The mean KOOS score was 69.0. Mean AKSS and SF-36 PCS scores were 79.0 and 41.4, respectively. There were significant relationships between age and functional results (KOOS ADL, Sport, QoL, and SF-36 PCS) and between BMI and KOOS Pain, ADL, Sport, and QoL. No differences were found between the two types of fractures regarding quality of reduction and alignment. AO 41-C TPF tend to develop PTOA more frequently with respect to 41-B fractures, while type AO 41-C TPF had the worst clinical outcomes. We found that the presence of an articular step-off and the malalignment of the tibial axis after surgery were predictive of daily pain felt by patients. PTOA was predictive of a worse AKSS. The overall complication rate was 13.33%: 1 superficial wound infection, 1 deep vein thrombosis, and 4 cases of transitory deficit of the common peroneal nerve. Conclusion The present study demonstrates that early radiographic features may be predictive for pain perceived by patients at mid-term follow-up.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bennett, Tristram C.
AU  - Matz, Brad M.
AU  - Henderson, Ralph A.
AU  - Straw, Rodney C.
AU  - Liptak, Julius M.
AU  - Selmic, Laura E.
AU  - Collivignarelli, Francesco
AU  - Buracco, Paolo
TI  - Total prostatectomy as a treatment for prostatic carcinoma in 25 dogs
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 47
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.12768
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.12768
SP  - 367
EP  - 377
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Objective To describe the complications and outcome after total prostatectomy in dogs with histologically confirmed prostatic carcinoma. Study Design Multi-institutional retrospective case series. Animals 25 client-owned dogs. Methods Medical records of dogs undergoing total prostatectomy were reviewed from 2004 to 2016. Data retrieved included signalment, presenting signs, preoperative clinical findings, laboratory data, diagnostic imaging, surgical technique, histologic diagnosis, postoperative complications, occurrence of postoperative metastasis, and survival. Results Twenty-five dogs underwent total prostatectomy for prostatic carcinoma. Urinary anastomotic techniques included urethrourethral anastomosis in 14 dogs, cystourethral anastomosis in 9 dogs, ureterocolonic anastomosis in 1 dog, and anastomosis between the bladder neck and penile urethra in 1 dog. All dogs survived to discharge. Fifteen dogs were diagnosed with transitional cell carcinoma, 8 dogs with prostatic adenocarcinoma, 1 with prostatic cystadenocarcinoma, and 1 with an undifferentiated carcinoma. Permanent postoperative urinary incontinence was present in 8 of 23 dogs. The median survival time was shorter in dogs with extracapsular tumor extension compared with those with intracapsular tumors. The overall median survival time was 231 days (range, 24-1255), with 1- and 2-year survival rates equal to 32% and 12%, respectively. Conclusion and Clinical Significance Total prostatectomy, combined with adjunct therapies, prolongs survival and lowers complication rates compared to previous reports of dogs with prostatic carcinoma. It should be noted, however, that case selection likely played a significant role in postoperative outcome.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Barton, Kristen I.
AU  - Shekarforoush, Mehdi
AU  - Heard, Bryan J.
AU  - Sevick, John L.
AU  - Vakil, Paria
AU  - Atarod, Mohammad
AU  - Martin, Ryan
AU  - Achari, Yamini
AU  - Hart, David A.
AU  - Frank, Cyril B.
AU  - Shrive, Nigel G.
TI  - Use of pre-clinical surgically induced models to understand biomechanical and biological consequences of PTOA development
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 35
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.23322
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.23322
SP  - 454
EP  - 465
KW  - post-traumatic osteoarthritis
KW  - knee injury
KW  - knee joint
KW  - anterior cruciate ligament
PY  - 2017
AB  - ABSTRACT Post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA) development is often observed following traumatic knee injuries involving key stabilising structures such as the cruciate ligaments or the menisci. Both biomechanical and biological alterations that follow knee injuries have been implicated in PTOA development, although it has not been possible to differentiate clearly between the two causal factors. This review critically examines the outcomes from pre-clinical lapine and ovine injury models arising in the authors? laboratories and differing in severity of PTOA development and progression. Specifically, we focus on how varying severity of knee injuries influence the subsequent alterations in kinematics, kinetics, and biological outcomes. The immediate impact of injury on the lubrication capacity of the joint is examined in the context of its influence on biomechanical alterations, thus linking the biological changes to abnormal kinematics, leading to a focus on the potential areas for interventions to inhibit or prevent development of the disease. We believe that PTOA results from altered cartilage surface interactions where biological and biomechanical factors intersect, and mitigating acute joint inflammation may be critical to prolonging PTOA development. ? 2017 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 35:454?465, 2017.
ER  - 
