
TY  - JOUR
TI  - 7th International Symposium on Enabling Technologies for Life Sciences (ETP)
JO  - Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry
JA  - Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom.
VL  - 27
IS  - 22
SN  - 0951-4198
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rcm.6724
DO  - doi:10.1002/rcm.6724
SP  - 2570
EP  - 2580
PY  - 2013
AB  - The seventh in the series of ETP Symposia (see Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 2012, 26, 1515?1518 for a description and report on the 6th Symposium) was held at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, Toronto, Canada, on 30 April to 1 May, 2013, and was chaired by Professor Daniel Figeys, Ottawa Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa. The purpose of these symposia is to convene meetings of scientists and engineers from universities, government laboratories, industry and manufacturers of scientific instrumentation, to discuss novel technologies and methodologies applicable to research in molecular biology. The speakers and the Abstracts of their presentations are listed alphabetically below. The program illustrates some significant changes from earlier versions (www.etpsymposium.org) that were devoted almost entirely to proteomics (the 'P' in 'ETP'). In addition to new techniques and applications related to that area, this symposium featured work related to nucleic acid characterization, biomaterials discovery, water disinfection byproducts, and metabolomics, as well as more fundamental developments in mass spectrometry (ionization techniques and quadrupole theory) and sample preparation. The symposium is now more truly international, with speakers from Canada, USA, Europe and China. It is hoped that the wide variety of topics and backgrounds of participants, together with the highly informal setting, will help promote cross-fertilization of ideas and unforeseen collaborations. Perdita E. Barran, Department of Chemistry, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK Resolution of solution structures in the absence of solvent (Invited Talk) Gentle application of nano-electrospray to proteins buffered in solution to an appropriate pH allows us to use mass spectrometry to interrogate their solution conformations. This can be achieved directly with ion mobility mass spectrometry where we measure the rotationally averaged temperature dependent collision cross section of mass separated ions, or more indirectly with the use of dissociation methods. Data obtained from both methods provides insight to the structure and stability of the protein, and also detail on its interactions, especially when combined with atomistically resolved data from crystallography and/or computational approaches. Data were presented from two systems, the first was a peptide level model of the interaction between the transcription factor c-MYC and its partner MAX; the second was a detailed structural evaluation of the metamorphic protein Lymphotactin. Ronald Beavis, Beavis Informatics Ltd, Winnipeg, Canada False negatives in proteomics (Invited Talk) Proteomics experiments using tandem mass spectrometry to identify peptides and proteins are prone to various types of false negative identifications that can affect the utility of the information generated from the experiments, as well as their reproducibility. This talk discussed the classification of the most common types of false negatives as well as how they can be detected, remedied or avoided. John D. Brennan, Blake J. Helka and Elna D. Luckham, Department of Chemistry, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada Imaging MALDI MS/MS of microarrays as a platform for high throughput biomaterials discovery (Invited Talk) This presentation highlighted recent work within the Biointerfaces Institute at McMaster University in the area of high throughput screening of biomaterials, with particular emphasis on the use of imaging MALDI for characterization of biomaterial microarrays. Using robotic handling systems and a combination of contact and noncontact microarray printing, we are able to produce several thousand biomaterials per day with a wide range of chemical compositions. Using sol?gel based materials as an example, the presentation showed the workflow utilized to develop new bioactive sol?gel materials for biosensing and small molecule screening applications. This includes methods to produce several thousand materials very rapidly, tools for rapid screening to identify ' hits' that show a desired property (high biological activity, low non-specific binding, etc.), and further detailed material analysis using a range of imaging methods based on fluorescence, XPS, MALDI-MS/MS and SPR to fully characterize the properties of biologically active materials. In particular, this presentation emphasized the unique capabilities of MALDI-MS/MS for evaluating biomaterial properties and the interaction of materials with biological samples. Methods for cataloging, mining and analyzing large datasets within the Database of Biointerface Interactions were also discussed. Rui Chen, H. Zou and D. Figeys, Ontario Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada Characterization of cell membrane N-glycosylation with integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction and LC/MS/MS Glycosylation of membrane proteins plays important roles in cellular behaviours such as cell-cell interaction, immunology recognition and cell signalling. Despite their importance the effective extraction of membrane protein, selective isolation of glycopeptides and mass spectrometric characterization of glycosylation are challenging current analytical techniques. In this study, a systematic approach was developed which combined an integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction (HILIC SPE) for simultaneous detergent removal and glycopeptides enrichment, and mass spectrometric identification of both protein N-glycosylation sites and site-specific glycan structure. The HILIC SPE condition was optimized to enable the use of high concentration of strong detergents, such as SDS and Triton X-100, to dissolve highly hydrophobic membrane proteins, thus increasing the yield of membrane protein extraction. We illustrated the performance of this approach for the study of membrane protein glycosylation from human embryonic kidney cell lines (HEK 293T). 200 µg total protein digest was processed using this approach, leading to the identification of 813 N-glycosylation sites from 568 proteins within two experimental replicates. Furthermore, 177 glycopeptides representing 82 N-glycosides with both glycan composition and peptide sequence were identified by high energy collision dissociation. Andrew Crowell, A. Doucette and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada. Disposable two-stage spin cartridges for protein purification in a top-down proteomics workflow Proper proteome analysis by mass spectrometry depends on upstream sample manipulations, including protein concentration and purification. Cleanup strategies typically rely on chromatography, not only for the relative high recovery and purification efficiency, but also for ease of use through automation. Unfortunately, with chromatographic approaches sample loss is an expected occurrence, especially for high molecular weight and/or hydrophobic (membrane) proteins. By contrast, organic solvent-assisted protein precipitation is extremely effective at protein purification with minimal sample loss. Quantitative protein recovery is possible, though it is highly dependent on the pipetting skills of the individual. It is desired to create a robust protein precipitation protocol by automating the process, thereby maximizing recovery and purity on a high throughput scale. This presentation introduces a disposable two-stage centrifugal cartridge, tailored to automate the precipitation process. The ProTrap XG comprises an upper filtration cartridge together with a removable reversed phase cartridge, attaching at its base. Protein samples are mixed with organic solvents in the upper filter chamber, which induces precipitation of proteins. The pellet is retained by the filter, while contaminants in the supernatant are discarded to waste through a brief spin in a desktop centrifuge. Multiple devices can be used simultaneously, improving throughput while maintaining consistency between samples. Following precipitation, protein pellets are re-solubilized and subject to final purification through the reverse phase cartridge which is re-attached to the base of the filter. The effectiveness of the ProTrap XG for recovery and purification of intact proteins in a top-down proteomics workflow was discussed. Alan Doucette, A. Crowell and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada Automated SDS removal, tryptic digestion and sample cleanup in a disposable two-stage spin cartridge Prior to MS analysis, bottom up proteomics relies on a significant number of sample manipulations including protein purification and preconcentration, fractionation, digestion, and subsequent cleanup. Each of these steps comes with a risk of loss of analyte and adds to the complexity of the proteomics workflow. The GELFrEE fractionation system is a mass-based electrophoretic platform which relies on an SDS-containing sample buffer to isolate protein fractions in solution. Our group has recommended the use of solvent-induced protein precipitation (acetone or chloroform/methanol/water) to eliminate the SDS ahead of LC/MS analysis. However, protein precipitation is a particularly tedious and highly variable technique for the recoverery of proteins in high yield. Subsequent resolubilization of the protein pellet is also challenging, and further jeopardizes the success of MS characterization. To facilitate protein precipitation we have developed a two-stage filtration and chromatographic extraction cartridge designed to work in a conventional benchtop centrifuge. The device automates the recovery of proteins, ensuring uniform purification on a high throughput scale. Protein samples are precipitated in an upper chamber, with residual contaminants (including SDS) flushed through the bottom filter. At this point the base filter is capped, trapping proteins in the upper vial for subsequent resolubilization. A combination of urea and trypsin ensures complete digestion of the pellet. The peptides are then subject to reversed phase purification; here we link a chromatographic cartridge to the base of the filter chamber. Key figures of merit of the device, including the purity of SDS removal, protein recovery, digestion efficiency and peptide recovery, were demonstrated through standard and complex proteome mixtures. Don Douglas1, C. Gao1, K. Kim1, H. Qiao2 and N. Konenkov3 1Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 2Ionics Mass Spectrometry Group, Bolton, ON, Canada 3Physical and Mathematical Department, Ryazan State University, Ryazan, Russia Space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps with mass selective axial ejection (Invited Talk) Experiments and ion trajectory calculations have been used to better understand and to reduce space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps operated with axial ejection. If too many ions are stored in a linear trap their mutual repulsion counteracts the trapping forces and the ion oscillation frequencies decrease. Consequently higher trapping radio frequency voltages are required to bring ions into resonance for ejection, and ions appear at higher apparent masses in a spectrum. At the same time the mass resolution decreases. For the experiments of interest here the mass shifts are about 1 at m/z 609, and the electric field from space charge is a small perturbation to the trapping field. Experiments show that a proper choice of operating conditions can reduce but not eliminate mass shifts. Trajectory calculations of ion motion with various models of the ion cloud provide additional insight, and show that the space charge field is nonlinear and that therefore the ion oscillation frequency depends on oscillation amplitude. Anything that expands the ion cloud produces lower electric fields from space charge, and hence lowers mass shifts. Experiments in progress show that using broadband excitation, dipole dc, or two-frequency excitation to expand the ion cloud gives modest reductions in mass shifts and improvements in resolution. Norman Dovichi, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana, USA Capillary electrophoresis for high throughput proteomics (Keynote Lecture) Most proteomics studies employ LC/ESI-MS/MS analysis of peptides. We are investigating capillary electrophoresis (CE)/ESI-MS/MS as an alternative technology for bottom-up proteomics. We first developed a rugged and sensitive CE/ESI interface based on electrokinetically pumped sheath-flow.[1] This interface operates in the nanospray domain, produces low-attomole detection limits for CE separation of peptides, and offers great flexibility in separation buffer conditions.[1,2] We then analyzed the secreted protein fraction of M. marinum.[3] We pre-fractionated the secretome to produce simpler samples that were better suited to the separation performance of capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE). The results of the analysis of 12 fractions were compared with conventional UPLC analysis of the unfractionated sample. CZE produced slightly more protein identifications in a slightly shorter time period than UPLC. 140 protein groups were identified by CZE/ESI-MS/MS in three hours from this sample. We have recently improved the system. In the single-shot analysis of the E coli proteome, we identified >1,300 peptides and >300 protein groups in a 50-min CZE separation.[4] We have employed this separation system to analyze seven fractions from the E. coli proteome.[5] This system produced 23,706 peptide spectra matches, 4,902 peptide IDs, and 871 protein group IDs in 350 min analysis time. In an alternative separations scheme, we employed capillary isoelectric focusing for the analysis of host-cell proteins in commercial biopharma products; this system identified 37 host cell proteins in a total sample preparation time of 4 hours.[6] [1] Wojcik et al. Rapid Communun. Mass Spectrom. 2010, 24, 2554. [2] Wojcik et al. Talanta 2012, 88, 324. [3] Li et al. Anal. Chem. 2012, 84, 1616. [4] Zhu et al. Anal. Chem. 2013, 85, 2569. [5] Yan et al. In revision [6] Zhu et al. Talanta 2012, 98, 253. Ann M. English, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada Platform development to monitor age- and oxidant-related protein post-translational modifications: The case of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (Invited Talk) Non-enzymatic protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) increase with age and are frequently associated with age-dependent diseases. For example, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) aggregation has been reported in patients with late onset neurodegenerative diseases such as sporadic or familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's. Non-enzymatic PTMs in CuZnSOD are linked to its aggregation and hence to the development of ALS and Alzheimer's. Yeast is a widely used model of cellular and organismal aging that can be readily exploited in platforms to monitor age-related PTMs in a cellular environment. Furthermore, yeast and human CuZnSODs share high sequence homology but, since yeast ages much faster, we are exploring age-related PTMs in the yeast enzyme. By gel filtration of cell lysates we isolated a high-mass inactive form of CuZnSOD, and found by FT-MS that it is oxidized at cysteine 146 (C146) to the sulfonic acid. Importantly, C146 is also found in the sulfonic acid form in CuZnSOD isolated from the brains of Alzheimer's patients[1] and the C146R mutation has been reported in familial ALS.[2] Notably, C146 forms a C146-C55 disulfide bridge that is critical in stabilizing the native CuZnSOD homodimer. In high-mass CuZnSOD, we additionally observe oxidation of histidine 71 (H71) and H120, which ligate the active-site zinc and catalytic copper, respectively. We hypothesize that age-induced oxidation of C146, H71, and H120 contributes to the development of ALS as well as Alzheimer's by releasing the redox-active catalytic copper, which would probably increase oxidative stress and CuZnSOD aggregation. By monitoring the GFP (green fluorescent protein) fluorescence of CuZnSOD-GFP from an isogenic yeast strain expressing this fusion protein, we noted that the cellular content of high-mass CuZnSOD-GFP increases ~10-fold from day 3 to day 7. We are currently characterizing CuZnSOD and CuZnSOD-GFP from yeast cells over several weeks to establish if aggregated CuZnSOD continues to accumulate in old cells. CuZnSOD activity also is known to be inhibited by inflammatory processes in the airway epithelium, and C146 oxidation was reported in CuZnSOD purified from the erythrocytes of asthmatic patients.[3] To mimic the inflammatory state of asthma we are examining modification of CuZnSOD after challenging yeast cells with H2O2. Our highly sensitive LC/MS platform that tracks protein modification as yeast ages is providing in-depth information at the molecular level that is critical towards understanding the functional significance of PTMs in the cellular context. [1] Choi et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005, 280, 11648. [2] Andersen et al. Amyotroph. Lateral Scler. Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2003, 4, 62. [3] Ghosh et al. Antioxid Redox Signal 2012. DOI: 10.1089/ars.2012.4566. Daniele Fabris, The RNA Institute, State University of New York, The University at Albany, Albany, NY, USA MS-based strategies for the elucidation of nucleic acid?ligand interactions (Invited Talk) Ribozymes and riboswitches have keenly demonstrated that the function of nucleic acids is not always linked to the genetic information coded in their sequence, but can also depend on their 3D structure and ability to interact with a variety of species present in the cell. Owing to the versatility afforded by mass spectrometry (MS) in RNA analysis this platform is rapidly assuming a prominent role in the investigation of structure-function relationships, which is realized by supporting the full characterization of natural and man-made RNAs as well as the elucidation of specific interactions with cognate nucleic acids, proteins, metals, and small molecule ligands. The talk illustrated strategies for accessing functional information for nucleic acid complexes and discussed possible hurdles and experimental pitfalls. Examples were provided in which MS-based techniques are employed to characterize relevant interactions that could represent new therapeutic targets. Other examples illustrated approaches for elucidating the effects of metals and common nucleic acid ligands on such interactions. The experimental design necessary to assess the strength of binding/inhibition in either comparative or absolute fashion was also discussed. The potential afforded by ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) techniques was evaluated in the investigation of possible conformational effects associated with ligand binding. Owing to the extremely low sample consumption and high speed of analysis, these capabilities will be expected to greatly increase the utilization of MS-based approaches in drug discovery and therapeutics development based on specific nucleic acid interactions. Bella Groisman, J. Petschnigg and I. Stagljar, Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada A novel mammalian split-ubiquitin proteomics approach as a tool for functional investigation of signaling pathways in human cells The membrane yeast two-hybrid system (MYTH) is a robust technique for the identification of protein partners of integral membrane proteins. However, its implementation for mammalian proteins is limited due to differences between mammalian and yeast cells. Here we present a novel split-ubiquitin-based mammalian membrane two-hybrid (MaMTH) technology that enables investigation of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in human cells. Briefly, the specific interaction between membrane 'bait' and 'prey' proteins, coupled to ubiquitin halves, allows reconstitution of functional ubiquitin. Subsequently, deubiquitinating enzymes cleave off the transcription factor coupled to the bait, thus activating reporter gene transcription. Using the MaMTH technology we successfully confirmed known PPIs of membrane proteins from various cellular compartments. Here we focus on the ErbB members of receptor tyrosine kinases, mainly on the EGFR wild type (WT) versus the oncogenic kinase-active L858R version ? dynamic interactomes and functional analysis. We demonstrate that MaMTH allows sensitive detection of phospho-dependent and drug-inhibited interactions. We show that EGFR WT recruits Shc1 adaptor in serum-dependent manner, while oncogenic L858R shows constitutively stimuli-independent binding. Furthermore, consistent with clinical data EGFR (L858R) interaction with Shc1 was efficiently inhibited by the EGFR small molecule inhibitor erlotinib (tarceva), while the secondary L858RT790M resistant mutant was not affected by the drug. In addition, we created a dynamic interactome of EGFR WT versus L858R with 200 predicted interactors, data which is of high importance for the cancer signaling scientific community. In summary, here we presented a novel powerful proteomics technology, which we are planning to develop as tool for high-throughput proteomic research as well as a drug screening platform. David Juncker, Department of Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montréal, Canada Antibody colocalization microarray (ACM): A scalable cross-reactivity free nano-ELISA platform for proteomics studies Quantification of proteins with high specificity in blood can be performed using sandwich immunossays (e.g. ELISA). Multiplex sandwich immunoassays (MSI) were developed to measure multiple proteins at once, but cross-reactivity among reagents is known to limit accuracy and reproducibility. Here we explain the origin of the cross-reactivity in MSI, experimentally show the consequences, and introduce a novel assay format called the antibody Colocalization Microarray (ACM) that eliminates it. In MSI a slide is patterned with an array of capture antibodies, incubated with a sample, followed by a mixture of detection antibodies. Here we analyze the combinatorial interactions between detection and capture antibodies and antigens, and find that it increases quadratically with the number of targets. In an array with 14 targets we found widespread cross-reactivity. To overcome the cross-reactivity we introduce the ACM where all detection antibodies are individually spotted with high accuracy onto their corresponding capture antibody spot. Each spot on the ACM replicates an ELISA but using only 1 nL of reagent, constituting a Nano-ELISA. An ACM with 50 targets was shown experimentally to overcome cross-reactivity and to rival the sensitivity of ELISA. The ACM was validated for biomarker studies by measuring proteins in the serum of breast cancer patients and controls, and a candidate biomarker panel was identified. It is currently being used to identify biomarkers for traumatic brain injury. As the number of targets on the ACM is increased easily, it may become a powerful tool for biomarker discovery and validation. John Klassen, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada New MS tools for the discovery and characterization of protein-carbohydrate interactions (Invited Talk) The direct electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) assay has emerged as a powerful tool for quantifying protein-ligand interactions in solution. The assay is based on the direct detection and quantification of free and ligand-bound protein ions by ESI-MS for solutions of known initial concentrations of protein and ligand. A brief overview of the ESI-MS assay was presented, along with recent methodological advances that overcome the major sources of error in the binding measurements. A high-throughput ESI-MS approach to library screening was also presented. The catch-and-release (CaR)-ESI-MS assay involves incubating a protein with a library of compounds in solution, detecting the protein-ligand complexes by ESI-MS, activating the complexes to release the ligand. The identities of ligands are determined from measured molecular weights and, if needed, the fragmentation spectra and ion mobility arrival time distributions. The CaR-ESI-MS assay allows for the sensitive, rapid (<1 min analysis time) and direct detection and quantification of specific interactions for libraries containing hundreds of compounds. An overview of the assay was presented followed by examples highlighting the application of the assay for the discovery of carbohydrate ligands for a variety of bacterial proteins. Finally, the extension of the CaR-ESI-MS assay for the discovery of host cell receptors was described. The assay involves direct ESI-MS analysis of aqueous solutions of soluble proteins and insoluble receptors, which are incorporated into nanodiscs. The application of this assay for the detection of interactions between bacterial toxins and glycosphingolipids was presented. X. Chris Le, H. Zhang, F. Li, B. Dever, X. Li, C. Wang, M. Wagner, Z. Wang and X.-F. Li, Departments of Chemistry and of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada DNA-mediated binding assays for nucleic acids and proteins (Invited Talk) The detection of nucleic acids and proteins is fundamental for studying their functions and for the development of molecular diagnostics. Determining these biomolecules in complex systems requires exquisite analytical specificity and sensitivity. To meet these requirements we have devoted much effort to affinity binding assays that incorporate target recognition, signal transduction, and in situ amplification. Here we focus on homogeneous binding assays, which are carried out in solution, without the need for separation, immobilization, or washing steps. Such homogeneous binding assays can be performed in a single tube/vial or in live cells. They are potentially applicable to point-of-care diagnostics. For example, a binding-induced DNA assembly enables ultrasensitive detection of molecular targets and construction of unique target-dependent nanoreactors. Two DNA motifs that are conjugated to specific affinity probes assemble preferentially only when a specific target triggers a binding event. The binding-induced assembly of the DNA motifs results in the formation of a highly stable hairpin structure, enabling effective differentiation of the target-specific assembly from the background. This strategy pushes the limit of the state-of-art dynamic DNA nanotechnology to include molecules beyond DNA. The ability to generate dynamic DNA assembly by non-DNA molecules opens up opportunities for diverse potential applications, ranging from the construction of protein-induced nanodevices to the in situ detection of proteins and studies of molecular interactions. XingFang Li, W. Wang, Y. Quian and J. M. Boyd, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. Mass spectrometry methods for characterization and determination of disinfection byproducts in tap water and swimming pools Protection of public health requires disinfection of drinking water and recreation pools to effectively prevent water-borne diseases. However, common disinfection treatments unavoidably generate byproducts resulting from reactions between natural organic matter in the source water and disinfectants. The majority (~70%) of disinfection byproducts (DBPs) in treated water remain unidentified. Potential adverse health effects observed in epidemiological studies drive analytical research to identify and determine what DBPs may contribute to these health risks. Here we present the separation of and mass spectrometry methods to characterize emerging DBPs of toxicological relevance, and investigate the occurrence of these DBPs in swimming pools. The research demonstrated that personal care products contributed to the formation of some emerging DBPs such as halobenzoquinones. Yueqiao Fu, Lily Mats, Graham T. T. Gibson and Richard Oleschuk, Department of Chemistry, Queens University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada Multi-nano ESI, in pursuit of enhanced robustness, stability and sensitivity (Invited Talk) Electrospray ionization (ESI) as a soft ionization technique has been critical to mass spectrometry for analyzing biological macromolecules. NanoESI, which is operated at lower flow rates (nL/min), exhibits both higher ionization efficiency and higher sensitivity since the smaller initial electrospray droplets from the emitter afford increased surface charge per analyte molecule. To improve sensitivity and signal without decreasing flow rate, multiple electrosprays have been generated from multiple emitters by splitting one larger flow into smaller flows in the nanoESI regime. Based upon theoretical prediction and experimental results, the measured spray current generated from an emitter producing multiple Taylor cones (Itotal) is enhanced relative to the spray current from a single emitter (Is) at the same overall flow rate by a factor of the square root of the number of emitters (n). We have developed a series of multi-channeled emitters based upon silica and polymer microstructured fibers (MSFs). Custom-designed MSFs having holes in a radial pattern were fabricated using a 'stack and draw' technique, allowing multiple electrosprays from a single fiber. Polymer nozzles have been included in the silica MSF design to enhance nanoESI performance. A layer of polymer is first formed on the inner wall of each of the MSF channels followed by etching with hydrofluoric acid to expose the nozzles. The protruding highly cross-linked divinylbenzene nozzles produce true multi-nanoESI over a wide range of flow rates and mobile phase compositions and are compatible with high-resolution liquid chromatographic separations. Anthony Pawson, Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Using synthetic biology to study protein signaling networks (Plenary Lecture) The proteins involved in the transmission of signals within cells are typically complex, in the sense that they often possess multiple interaction and/or catalytic domains, and are directly or indirectly connected to numerous distinct proteins and other biomolecules such as phospholipids. We have used a variety of synthetic biology and proteomics techniques to investigate the importance of the multiple protein- and lipid-binding domains of the Grb2 adaptor protein and its target, the Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor Sos1, in controlling a key cell fate decision in early mammalian embryogenesis, namely the differentiation of primitive endoderm tissue. We find that these domains act cooperatively as a coincidence detector to ensure that fibroblast growth factor-dependent signals are transmitted at the right time and in the right place to elicit the appropriate formation of primitive endoderm. Guy Poirier, J.-P. Gagné, J. D. Chapman and D. R. Goodlett, Department of Molecular Biology, Medical Biochemistry and Pathology, Laval University, Québec, PQ, Canada High accuracy mass spectrometry provides direct evidence for site-specific auto-ADP-ribosylation of PARP-1 Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is an abundant chromatin-associated protein involved in a variety of pathways such as DNA damage response (DDR), transcription regulation, cell cycle progression and apoptotic cell death. Upon DNA damage induction, DNA-dependent PARPs synthesize an anionic poly(ADP-ribose) (pADPr) polymer to which several proteins bind with the subsequent formation of pADPr-associated multiprotein complexes. PARP hydrolyzes NAD?+?in the formation of pADPr on nuclear proteins such as DNA repair enzymes, chromatin remodelers, histones, transcription factors and PARP-1 itself. The covalent attachment of pADPr to a substrate protein alters its physicochemical characteristics, which results in functional consequences on its biological activity. The exact nature of the ADP-ribose linkage catalyzed by PARP-1 has been the subject of controversy and debate. To date, it is still unclear which of the amino acid side chains are directly targeted by the ADP-ribose transferase activity of PARP-1. Radiolabeled NAD?+?has been a cornerstone in research for tracking and visualizing PARP-catalyzed post-translational protein modification in vitro, but the ability of the negatively charged pADPr to strongly interact with proteins in a non-covalent manner is a cause of confusion when interpreting experimental results. To truly begin to understand the exact nature of the poly(ADP-ribosly)ation reaction, there is a need for more conclusive mass spectrometry evidence of PARP-catalyzed protein modifications. Mapping of these modifications to specific amino acid residues on PARP-1 and other protein substrates of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reactions presents significant challenges due to the complex structural heterogeneity of pADPr polymers as well as a loss of amino acid sequencing information that occurs during several mass spectrometry peptide activation techniques commonly implemented for fragmentation. Here, we demonstrate a novel method for the identification of PARP-1 auto-poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation sites utilizing high mass accuracy mass spectrometry. By employing an enzymatically driven simplification of the pADPr modifications, we reduce the corresponding complexity of analyzing modified tryptic peptides at the level of the tandem mass spectrum, which in turn enables us to effectively localize exact sites of PARP-1-catalyzed poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. In conjunction with a phosphopeptide-like enrichment strategy that captures modified peptides, we are able to successfully locate numerous sites of PARP-1 automodification in a high-throughput proteomics screen suitable for universally available mass spectrometry and data analysis pipelines. Jeffrey Smith, K. Wasslen, S. Wood and J. Manthorpe, Department of Chemistry, Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi): Rapid on-column methylation of peptides and proteins to permit quantitative analysis using tandem mass spectrometry Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi) is an inexpensive and rapid on-column chemical derivatization technique to permit peptide methylation and quantitation. TrEnDi produces trimethylated primary amines that enhance and simplify label-free quantitation strategies via improved ionization through the formation of fixed quaternary ammonium ions. TrEnDi has been optimized on a microfluidic platform to successfully derivatize peptides from a protein digest with nearly 100% complete N-terminal methylation. Other amino acid side chains with pKa values of approximately 10.5 or less were also methylated. MS/MS analysis confirmed that N-termini trimethylated peptides fragmented to preferentially form the a2 ion, permitting a significant increase in sensitivity when scanning in the MRM mode. This allowed us to perform label-free MRM scanning of candidate peptides without prior knowledge of their fragmentation patterns. The trimethylated peptide N-termini were found to be very stable. However, hydrolysis of the newly formed methyl esters occurred over time. Hydrolysis was assisted using base hydrolysis in order to drive the derivatized peptides to homogeneity. To test the analytical sensitivity of derivatized peptides via MRM scanning, several low concentrations of the modified peptides were spiked into a series of more complex peptide solutions and the ability of the MRM method to obtain quantitative data was assessed. Our results have revealed that the trimethylated peptide N-termini produced strong MRM transitions and were identifiable at low concentrations, even in the presence of highly concentrated interferences. E. Bonneil1, F. Lamoliatte1,2, J. Saba4, O. Caron-Lizotte1 and Dr P. Thibault1,2,3, Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer1, and Departments of Chemistry2 and of Biochemistry3, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada, and Thermo Fisher Scientific4 Quantitative proteomics using FAIMS and isotopic labeling (Invited Talk) Isotopic labeling is a commonly used method in quantitative proteomics to profile changes in protein abundances across different cell conditions. Isotopic labeling can be performed using chemical reagents that target specific functional group on peptides (MS2 quantitation) or via metabolic labeling (stable isotope labeling of cell cultures, SILAC) where cells are cultured in media containing in either light or heavy isotopes of amino acids (MS quantitation). The predictable mass differences between peptides (or fragment ions) from two or more experimental conditions enable a direct quantification and provide precise functional information and temporal changes in the proteome. However, the dynamic range and precision of these quantitative measurements can be hampered by the increasing complexity of the mass spectra and the presence of co-eluting isobaric ions. In this context we evaluated the analytical potentials of high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) in large-scale quantitative proteomics experiments using stable isotope labeling on a LTQ-Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. The ability of FAIMS to separate multiply protonated compounds from singly charged background ions provided a unique advantage to extend the dynamic range of peptide detection while reducing the complexity of LC/MS peptide maps. FAIMS analyses performed on cell extracts derivatized with tandem mass tags (TMT)-6plex isotopic label reagent or grown under SILAC conditions provided improved quantitation and dynamic range compared with conventional nanoelectrospray. Quantitative proteomics analyses performed using FAIMS resulted in a reduction of mixed precursor ions and provided confident reporter ion measurements with increased peptide identification. Examples of application were presented for monitoring changes in the proteome of yeast and human cells. Ruijun Tian, Y. Shi, T. Hunter and T. Pawson, The Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Exploring bi-directional signaling in pancreatic tumor microenvironment by quantitative proteomics Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is one of the most lethal human cancers with resistance to many chemotherapeutic drugs. This drug resistance effect is believed to be partly caused by stromal-cancer cells interaction in pancreatic tumor microenvironment. Cell-cell interactions are often mediated by protein molecules expressed by one cell that are recognized by specific receptors present on neighboring cells. This intercellular communication activates specific signaling pathways through the induction of dynamic post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation and by protein-protein interactions. Here, we present the development of unbiased quantitative proteomics approaches to characterize a dynamic secretome and critical intracellular signaling in a simulated pancreatic tumor microenviroment in culture. A number of secreted ligand/receptor pairs have been explored which have significant effects on cancer cells proliferation. Our work establishes a generally applicable strategy for studying stromal-cancer cells communication and provides valuable resources for systematically understanding dysfunctional signaling networks in tumor microenvironment in a context closer to physiological conditions than was previously possible. Sarah Trimpin, Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA Matrix assisted ionization without a laser, heat, or voltage: identification of peptides and proteins directly from tissue (Invited Talk) A few years ago we introduced an ionization method for use in mass spectrometry (MS), applicable to volatile and nonvolatile compounds, which uses laser ablation of a matrix/analyte mixture similar to atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) but which produces mass spectra nearly identical to electrospray ionization (ESI). This new technique called laserspray ionization (LSI) has advantages of speed of analysis, high spatial resolution for imaging, mass range extension, and improved fragmentation common with multiply charged ions. LSI using the proper matrix was also shown to be capable of imaging multiply charged ions using atmospheric pressure or vacuum MALDI sources. Crucial for the production of highly charged ions are desolvation conditions to remove matrix from charged matrix/analyte clusters. By using a matrix that readily sublimes, we have now extended matrix-assisted ionization by eliminating the need for a laser or even heat to initiate ionization. Ions are spontaneously formed from a solid matrix/analyte material when introduced to a vacuum MALDI source without need of a laser, or to a modified ESI source without use of voltage. This matrix assisted ionization vacuum (MAIV) method produces similar charge states and drift times of ions, as determined by ion mobility spectrometry-MS, to ESI. Compounds at least as large as bovine serum albumin (67 kDa) become converted into highly charged gas-phase ions when exposed in the MAIV matrix to vacuum conditions. Such a simple ionization method, requiring only the vacuum necessary for the proper functioning of the mass spectrometer, may prove useful for analysis of single cells and in clinical applications. A possible mechanism for ionization involving sublimation/evaporation and charge generation through the mechanism that produces triboluminescence was discussed. Dietrich Volmer, Institute of Bioanalytical Chemistry, Saarland University, Saarbrücken, Germany New methods for improved determination of metabolic markers using advanced analytical mass spectrometry techniques (Invited Talk) New developments in metabolomics and metabolic profiling techniques have led to the discovery of metabolic biomarkers indicative of physiological or pathological change, e.g. onset of disease or nutritional effects of a specific diet. Experimental approaches for discovering new biomarkers usually involve proteomics or metabolomics techniques that detect differences between sample sets rather than measuring specific compounds as performed in traditional hypothesis-driven research. Unfortunately, finding metabolites present in significantly different levels between sample sets is often complicated by experimental variables such as method reproducibility, types of tissue sampling technique, analytical sample preparation technique, ion suppression phenomena, person-to-person or animal-to-animal metabolic variations, isobaric or isomeric noise, etc. All these error sources, variations or artefacts can lead to false assignment of metabolites or biomarkers and random and systematic errors during quantification. This presentation focused on our research on metabolite profiling techniques and sources of analytical errors. It presented examples for applications such as quantitative analysis and fingerprinting of vitamin D metabolites, microcystin toxin biomarkers and lipids. In addition, novel technical solutions involving ?magnetic? media (fluids and beads), ion mobility spectrometry and chemical labeling techniques were highlighted in this presentation. Fangjun Wang1, H. Zou1, M. Ye1 and Daniel Figeys2 1Key Lab of Separation Science for Analytical Chemistry, National Chromatography R 2Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology, Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. Recent development of technologies and methods for proteome analysis (Invited Talk) Technologies and methods play a highly important role for proteome analysis. Recent developments of technologies and methods for proteome analyses in our labs were presented:Combined technologies and methods, such as multi-enzyme digestion, different enrichment methods, multi-dimensional LC separation and different types of mass spectrometers, for comprehensive glycoproteome and phosphoproteome analysis of human liver; the largest dataset of protein phosphorylation and glycosylation for human liver was achieved.Solid-phase based technology by integrating all of the digestion, enrichment, and deglycosylation together with LC/MS analysis, was developed for glycoproteome analysis; both the identification sensitivity and the throughput were improved greatly.A solid-phase based labeling approach, by integration of glycopeptides and phosphopeptides enrichment and stable isotope labeling on adsorbent beads, was developed for relative quantification of protein glycosylation and phosphorylation.Six-plex stable isotope labeling was achieved by a two-stage stable isotope labeling strategy of SILAC and dimethylation isotope labeling, which allows six different protein samples (six-plex) to be reliably labeled and simultaneously quantified at MS1 level. This six-plex isotope labeling strategy was applied to investigate the dynamics of protein turnover, and the 50% turnover times of 1365 proteins within HeLa cells were successfully obtained. Hailin Wang, S. Liu, B. Zhao, D. Zhang, C. Li, State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. Insights on Isotachophoresis Kinetics from Monitoring Non-uniform Motion of single DNA molecules (Invited Talk) Isotachophoresis (ITP) has wide applications in chemistry and life sciences due to its pre-concentration function. A simplified ITP system consists of a leading electrolyte (LE) and a terminating electrolyte (TE). For LE and TE to migrate at the same velocity (v), the respective E in each zone must adapt to their electrophoretic mobility (?) according to Eqn. (1): The LE zone with a high electrophoretic mobility will have a low E, and the TE zone with a low electrophoretic mobility will have a high E. Current literature commonly assumes that the adaption of E is fast and is not the rate-limiting step. However, actual adaption kinetics of ITP has not been studied yet. Moreover, it is not clear how electroosmotic flow affects the kinetics of ITP. By taking advantage of single molecule imaging, we for the first time examined the changes in electric field and the resulting non-uniform motion of single DNA molecules in capillary isotachophoresis. The individual DNA molecules passing the detection window are consecutively imaged in real time at 50-millisecond intervals. Since the migration velocity of DNA is directly proportional to the applied electric field strength (E), imaging the movement of DNA provides necessary information for understanding the distribution of E throughout the capillary. This approach allows us to gain insights into the kinetics of varying-field ITP and enables us to develop a strategy for focusing and detecting single DNA molecules and DNA damages. John Wilkins, Departments of Internal Medicine, Biochemistry and Medical Genetics, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada Linking protein composition and functionality in biology and medicine (Invited Talk) The repertoire and functional state of proteins expressed by an organism ultimately determine their phenotype. Thus, the inclusion of measures of protein activity is an essential step to developing valid models of biological systems in disease and health. While genomics and proteomics provide detailed information on potential and current protein composition, these approaches generally offer limited insight regarding protein functional states. However, many proteins possess catalytic activities that are stringently controlled by mechanisms that restrict substrate accessibility to the active site. This is the central premise of activity-based protein profiling. The use of enzyme activity as a predictor of organ function or health offers several advantages in the clinical environment. The assays can be highly specific because of the structural features of their substrates. The high substrate turnover numbers of enzymes provides an amplification mechanism that increases assay sensitivity. Activity-based profiling offers a means of probing clinical samples for novel enzymatic activities as new reporters. Some of our experiences in the application of this approach profiling assessing renal function were presented. The identification of a protein, even an active one, does not necessarily address the questions of ?What does the protein do?? and ?Why is it needed??. These questions can be further complicated by the observations that function(s) are often context specific. We have used integrated proteomic, activity based protein profiling and functional genomics approaches in an effort to examine lymphocyte migration, a process that is central to normal immune function. Derek Wilson, T. Rob, D. Golemi-Kotra and P. Kama-Gill, Department of Chemistry, York University, Toronto, Canada Microfluidics-enabled, sub-second hydrogen/deuterium exchange pulse labeling reveals allosteric 'hotspots' in enzymes Regulation of metabolic pathways is achieved by modulation of enzyme activity, commonly via direct interactions at the active site. However, a substantial number of enzymes are also sensitive to changes at locations well removed from the site of catalysis. These 'allosteric' effects are easily detected, but are exceedingly difficult to characterize because they are usually driven by subtle changes in conformation or dynamics. In this work we use a new microfluidic chip that incorporates a bottom-up workflow with sub-second H/D exchange pulse labeling to probe time-dependent structural and dynamic changes in the beta-lactamase enzyme TEM-1 upon inhibitor binding. Changes in deuterium uptake were noted from the first time-point after acylation, corresponding to both increases and decreases in labeling ('loosening' and 'tightening' of the structure, respectively). As the acyl-enzyme was allowed to age, time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were detected, indicating the presence of slow structural changes occurring up to 2 s after acylation. In general, peptides showing instantaneous changes in uptake were located near the active site, while peptides that exhibited time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were located at the periphery of the enzyme. In the active site, patterns of increasing and decreasing rigidity explain the roles of Arg244 and Asn276 in the inhibitory mechanism. At the periphery, slow changes in uptake are observed specifically in allosteric 'hotspots' that include residues known from mutational analysis to play a role in TEM-1 catalytic efficiency. David Wishart, Departments of Biological Sciences and Computing Science, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Clearing the biomarker barrier: Moving biomarkers from the bench to the bedside (Invited Talk) One of the great promises of the 'omics' era was the delivery of a gene or a protein to diagnose every disease. Unfortunately this hasn't quite happened. While our understanding of the etiology of disease has improved tremendously our ability to diagnose or predict disease has not. This has a lot to do with our inability to translate biomarkers from the bench to the bedside. Indeed, after nearly 20 years of work and more than $5 billion in investment, there have been only a few microarray tests and, as yet, no protein-array or proteomic tests approved by the FDA for diseases diagnosis. On the other hand, dozens of metabolomic biomarkers have successfully made the transition from the lab to the clinic. Why? This presentation discussed some of the secrets to the success of metabolomics in clearing the 'biomarker barrier'. In particular, some key guidelines for designing, performing and reporting biomarkers in a biomarker study, as well as some advice with regard to the process of moving biomarkers from the laboratory to the clinic, were provided. Some examples of how quantitative metabolomics is being used to identify biomarkers for a wide range of diseases, and the status of my lab's efforts to try to move some these biomarkers into clinical testing, were also discussed. THE KEN STANDING AWARD LECTURE (Sponsored by the University of Manitoba) Lars Konermann, Departments of Chemistry and of Biochemistry, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada Electrospray mass spectrometry as a readout of protein structure and function Proteins are nanomachines that carry out countless tasks in every living organism. To perform these functions, the linear amino acid chain of each protein has to fold into a highly specific three-dimensional structure. On the other hand, misfolding and aggregation are associated with diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. X-ray crystallography remains the gold standard for obtaining high-resolution structural information. However, the data generated in this way do not properly reflect the highly dynamic nature of proteins, which is a key prerequisite for biological function. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) provides a number of avenues for exploring protein structure, function, folding, and dynamics. Our laboratory specializes in the use of hydrogen exchange and covalent labeling techniques. This presentation discussed time-resolved investigations that provide detailed insights into the mechanisms of protein folding. The area of membrane protein structure and function, and the use of ESI-MS for probing biological self-assembly processes, were also discussed. In addition, recent advances in understanding the physical processes that allow the formation of gaseous biomolecular ions during ESI were presented. THE BILL DAVIDSON GRADUATE STUDENT TRAVEL AWARD (Sponsored by ABSciex) Feng Li, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dr X. Chris Le, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dynamic DNA assemblies mediated by binding-induced DNA strand displacement Dynamic DNA assemblies have shown promising potential to regulate cell activities, deliver therapeutic compounds, and amplify detection signals for molecular diagnostics and imaging. However, such applications of dynamic DNA assembly systems have been limited to nucleic acids and a few small molecules. It is challenging to construct dynamic DNA assemblies that are responsive to proteins. We have developed a binding-induced DNA strand displacement strategy that can convert protein binding to the release of a predesigned output DNA at room temperature with high conversion efficiency and low background. This strategy allows us to construct dynamic DNA assembly systems that are able to respond to specific protein binding, opening an opportunity to expand the existing dynamic DNA nanotechnology to proteins for diverse applications. We have applied this strategy to design a binding-induced DNA strand displacement beacon and a binding-induced DNA circuit, both of which are triggered by protein binding. We have demonstrated the detection of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and prostate specific antigen (PSA). Further applications could be in the area of point-of-care analysis of proteins that could be performed under ambient temperature and without requiring the use of enzymes for signal generation and/or amplification. POSTER PRESENTATIONS J. Anichina, A. Schreiber, R. Bonner and T. Sakuma High-resolution tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the interactions of oligonucleotides with selected river basin specific pollutants E. Forsberg and J. Brennan Bio-solid phase extraction and information dependent tandem mass spectrometry for the identification of enzyme inhibitors in complex mixtures H. Li, S. Bergeron, and D. Juncker Snap chip 2.0: Double microarray-to-microarray transfer for easy-to-use, high-density antibody colocalization microarrays P. Liuni and D. J. Wilson Investigating catalysis-linked dynamics in yeast alcohol dehydrogenase by measuring kinetic isotope effects using time-resolved ESI-MS with H/D exchange. P. S. Lo, V. Laforte, S. Bergeron, J. Marcoux and D. Juncker Using the antibody colocalization microarray to measure proteins in complex samples from severe traumatic brain injury patients Z. Ning, D. Seebun, B. Hawley, C.-K. Chiang and D. Figeys From cells to peptides: 'One-stop' integrated proteomic processing using Amphipols D.J. Orton, J.P. Rogers and A.A. Doucette A dual capillary nanospray interface for improved throughput in LC/MS A. Sardar iTRAQ coupled 2D-LC-MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis reveals proteome changes associated Leishmania donovani promastigote adaptation to oxidative and nitrosative stress A. M. Smith and J.D. Brennan Development of a multiplexed kinase assay via MALDI-MS/MS detection J. Song, X. Tang, L. Li, L.C. Palmer, D. Pinto and K. Chisholm OFFGEL peptide pre-fractionation is essential for proteomic approaches employing quantitative stable isotope dimethyl labeling and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in fruit proteomic research C. Stephan Pushing the frontier in ICP-MS applications: Counting and sizing nanoparticles using single particle ICP-MS D. Williams, S. Madler, L.V. DeSouza, A. Matta and K.W.M. Siu Intracellular signalling network expression profiling by LC/MS with a heavy isotope-labelled QconCAT internal standard Information about past and future symposia and conferences organized by ETP can be found at the website www.etpsymposium.org. Robert K. Boyd, Researcher Emeritus, National Research Council of Canada Chair, Science Advisory Committee, ETP
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bass, D.
AU  - Grest, P.
AU  - Hagen, R.
AU  - Makara, M.
AU  - Quante, S.
AU  - Rohrer-Bley, C.
TI  - Massive haematoma formation associated with proximal popliteal artery haemangioendothelioma in a dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 52
IS  - 11
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2011.01130.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2011.01130.x
SP  - 612
EP  - 615
PY  - 2011
AB  - A mixed breed dog presented with diffuse unilateral hind limb swelling, which ultrasound and cytology confirmed to be caused by severe haematoma formation. Multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT) angiography allowed distinct visualisation of an anomalous segment of the proximal popliteal artery, the presumed origin of the self-sustaining haematoma. Histopathology classified the malformed vessel as a haemangioendothelioma, a neoplasia of intermediate malignancy. Considering this as differential diagnosis to a neoplastic vascular alteration of high malignancy (such as haemangiosarcoma) might alter choice of treatment in future cases with similar clinical and imaging findings.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mercanti, Andrea
AU  - Parolini, Barbara
AU  - Bonora, Adriana
AU  - Lequaglie, Quintino
AU  - Tomazzoli, Laura
TI  - Epidemiology of endogenous uveitis in north-eastern Italy. Analysis of 655 new cases
JO  - Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
VL  - 79
IS  - 1
SN  - 1395-3907
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1034/j.1600-0420.2001.079001064.x
DO  - doi:10.1034/j.1600-0420.2001.079001064.x
SP  - 64
EP  - 68
KW  - endogenous uveitis
KW  - epidemiology
KW  - incidence
KW  - uveitis entities
PY  - 2001
AB  - ABSTRACT. Purpose: To report the results of a retrospective analysis among endogenous uveitis patients in the north-eastern area of Italy. Methods: The authors reviewed a series of 655 new cases treated between October 1986 and December 1993. The incidence of endogenous uveitis was calculated based on a 100,000 patient population. Results: The average incidence was 11.40/100,000. The majority of patients were between the ages of 20 and 70 years (74.43%). A probable diagnosis was determined in 55.57% of cases; anterior uveitis was diagnosed in 58.01% of cases, posterior uveitis in 26.11%, panuveitis in 12.98%, and intermediate uveitis in 2.9% of cases. The authors observed recurrences in 25.49% of cases. While the first cases are almost equally distributed in the various months, the recurrences seem to be significantly more frequent in the cold (from November to February; mean air temperature<8°) and transitional months (October and from March to May; mean air temperature from 8°C to 18°C) than in the warm months (from June to September; mean air temperature >18°C). Respectively p=0.003 and p=0.029. Conclusion: The incidence in this series is lower than in other European and American studies. Despite the high rate of idiopathic cases in this study, the authors support that the presentation of single case experiences may allow improved multi-centric analysis and a greater understanding of the epidemiology of uveitis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - George, Mitchell J.
AU  - Prabhakara, Karthik
AU  - Toledano-Furman, Naama E.
AU  - Wang, Yao-Wei
AU  - Gill, Brijesh S.
AU  - Wade, Charles E.
AU  - Olson, Scott D.
AU  - Cox Jr., Charles S.
TI  - Clinical Cellular Therapeutics Accelerate Clot Formation
JO  - STEM CELLS Translational Medicine
JA  - STEM CELLS Translational Medicine
VL  - 7
IS  - 10
SN  - 2157-6564
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/sctm.18-0015
DO  - doi:10.1002/sctm.18-0015
SP  - 731
EP  - 739
KW  - Tissue factor
KW  - Coagulation
KW  - Clinical cellular therapeutics
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Clinical cellular therapeutics (CCTs) have shown preliminary efficacy in reducing inflammation after trauma, preserving cardiac function after myocardial infarction, and improving functional recovery after stroke. However, most clinically available cell lines express tissue factor (TF) which stimulates coagulation. We sought to define the degree of procoagulant activity of CCTs as related to TF expression. CCT samples from bone marrow, adipose, amniotic fluid, umbilical cord, multi-potent adult progenitor cell donors, and bone marrow mononuclear cells were tested. TF expression and phenotype were quantified using flow cytometry. Procoagulant activity of the CCTs was measured in vitro with thromboelastography and calibrated thrombogram. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) separated samples into high- and low-TF expressing populations to isolate the contribution of TF to coagulation. A TF neutralizing antibody was incubated with samples to demonstrate loss of procoagulant function. All CCTs tested expressed procoagulant activity that correlated with expression of tissue factor. Time to clot and thrombin formation decreased with increasing TF expression. High-TF expressing cells decreased clotting time more than low-TF expressing cells when isolated from a single donor using FACS. A TF neutralizing antibody restored clotting time to control values in some, but not all, CCT samples. CCTs demonstrate wide variability in procoagulant activity related to TF expression. Time to clot and thrombin formation decreases as TF load increases and this procoagulant effect is neutralized by a TF blocking antibody. Clinical trials using CCTs are in progress and TF expression may emerge as a safety release criterion. Stem Cells Translational Medicine 2018;7:731?739
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - He, Hui-Juan
AU  - Wang, Yi
AU  - Le, Yuan
AU  - Duan, Kai-Ming
AU  - Yan, Xue-Bin
AU  - Liao, Qin
AU  - Liao, Yan
AU  - Tong, Jian-Bin
AU  - Terrando, Niccolò
AU  - Ouyang, Wen
TI  - Surgery Upregulates High Mobility Group Box-1 and Disrupts the Blood–Brain Barrier causing Cognitive Dysfunction in Aged Rats
JO  - CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics
JA  - CNS Neurosci Ther
VL  - 18
IS  - 12
SN  - 1755-5930
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cns.12018
DO  - doi:10.1111/cns.12018
SP  - 994
EP  - 1002
KW  - Aging
KW  - Blood–brain barrier (BBB)
KW  - High mobility group box-1 (HMGB1)
KW  - Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD)
KW  - Surgery
PY  - 2012
AB  - Summary Aim Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a growing and largely underestimated problem without defined etiology. Herein, we sought to determine the relationship between cognitive decline, blood?brain barrier (BBB) permeability, and inflammation, namely high mobility group box-1 (HMGB1), after surgery in aged rats. Methods Aged rats were randomly assigned as surgery group (n = 45, splenectomy under general anesthesia), anesthesia (n = 45, 2% isoflurane for 2 h), and naïve control (n = 15). Markers of inflammation were measured in plasma and brain. Blood?brain barrier ultrastructure and permeability were measured by transmission electron microscope (TEM) and IgG immunohistochemistry. Cognitive function was assessed in a reversal learning version of the Morris water maze (MWM). Results Surgical trauma under general anesthesia caused distinct changes in systemic and central proinflammatory cytokines. Levels of HMGB1 and the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) were significantly upregulated in the hippocampus of operated animals. Immunohistochemistry and TEM showed BBB disruption induced by surgery and anesthesia. These molecular changes were associated with cognitive impairment in latency with the MWM up to postoperative day 3. Conclusions HMGB1 and RAGE signaling appear pivotal mediators of surgery-induced cognitive decline and may contribute to the changes in BBB permeability after peripheral surgical trauma.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wei, Jian-Feng
AU  - Wei, Ling
AU  - Zhou, Xin
AU  - Lu, Zhong-Yang
AU  - Francis, Kevin
AU  - Hu, Xin-Yang
AU  - Liu, Yu
AU  - Xiong, Wen-Cheng
AU  - Zhang, Xiao
AU  - Banik, Naren L.
AU  - Zheng, Shu-Sen
AU  - Yu, Shan Ping
TI  - Formation of Kv2.1-FAK complex as a mechanism of FAK activation, cell polarization and enhanced motility
JO  - Journal of Cellular Physiology
JA  - J. Cell. Physiol.
VL  - 217
IS  - 2
SN  - 0021-9541
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.21530
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcp.21530
SP  - 544
EP  - 557
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) plays key roles in cell adhesion and migration. We now report that the delayed rectifier Kv2.1 potassium channel, through its LD-like motif in N-terminus, may interact with FAK and enhance phosphorylation of FAK397 and FAK576/577. Overlapping distribution of Kv2.1 and FAK was observed on soma and proximal dendrites of cortical neurons. FAK expression promotes a polarized membrane distribution of the Kv2.1 channel. In Kv2.1-transfected CHO cells, formation of the Kv2.1-FAK complex was stimulated by fibronectin/integrin and inhibited by the K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium (TEA). FAK phosphorylation was minimized by shRNA knockdown of the Kv2.1 channel, point mutations of the N-terminus, and TEA, respectively. Cell migration morphology was altered by Kv2.1 knockdown or TEA, hindering cell migration activity. In wound healing tests in vitro and a traumatic injury animal model, Kv2.1 expression and co-localization of Kv2.1 and FAK significantly enhanced directional cell migration and wound closure. It is suggested that the Kv2.1 channel may function as a promoting signal for FAK activation and cell motility. J. Cell. Physiol. 217: 544?557, 2008. ? 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

AU  - Ortel, Stephanie
C7  - pp. 295-308
TI  - Physical Rehabilitation and the Veterinary Technician
SN  - 9781118555521
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119421436.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119421436.ch16
SP  - 295-308
KW  - pain management
KW  - pain relieving modalities
KW  - physical rehabilitation therapy
KW  - therapeutic exercises
KW  - tissue disuse
KW  - veterinary technician
PY  - 2008
AB  - Summary Physical therapy can be applied to veterinary medicine through physical rehabilitation therapy (PRT). The role of the veterinary technician is essential in PRT practice to help implement a treatment plan and in client education. There are numerous acute and chronic conditions that benefit from PRT. Acute conditions include the postoperative period and trauma. In many chronic pain conditions, there is a vicious cycle of pain, disuse, and atrophy. PRT is used to maintain or increase a patient's functional status and quality of life. Restoring activities of daily living can be accomplished through pain relief using multi-modal analgesia, pain relieving modalities, therapeutic exercise, and home environment modification. It is important to discuss and document goals with the client, ensuring they are realistic for the patient. The modalities discussed include thermotherapy, massage, passive range of motion (PROM), neuromuscular electrical stimulation, transcutaneous electrical stimulation, therapeutic ultrasound, low-level laser therapy, extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT), and magnetic field therapy.
ER  - 

AU  - Duchesne, Juan C.
AU  - Duke, Marquinn D.
C7  - pp. 41-51
TI  - Sepsis and the Inflammatory Response to Injury
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118274231.ch4
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118274231.ch4
SP  - 41-51
KW  - sepsis, and inflammatory response to injury
KW  - drotrecogin alfa (activated), reducing mortality in patients
KW  - EGDT in sepsis/septic shock, exception with packed RBC transfusion
KW  - vasopressin in septic shock, reducing catecholamine infusion
KW  - surgical site infection prevention, exception in antibiotics discontinuation
KW  - corticosteroid in septic shock, in vasopressor-dependent septic shock
KW  - drotrecogin alfa in septic shock, absolute contraindication
KW  - cytokines, as pyrogenic, and TNF
KW  - vasodilation in sepsis, by, ATP-sensitive potassium channels
KW  - sepsis manifestation, exception of the skeletal
PY  - 2008
ER  - 

AU  - Kimura, Margareth
AU  - Castillo, Mauricio
C7  - pp. 67-82
TI  - Basic Principles of Computed Tomography Angiography (CTA)
SN  - 9781118188750
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118434550.ch4
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118434550.ch4
SP  - 67-82
KW  - computed tomography angiography
KW  - multidetector computed tomography
KW  - multislice computed tomography
KW  - brain vessel disease
KW  - technique
KW  - basic principles
KW  - brain attack
KW  - aneurysms
KW  - atheromatous vessel disease
KW  - acute brain stroke
PY  - 2008
AB  - Summary Computed tomography (CT) changed radically with the advent of Multi Slice CT (MSCT) which enabled necessary technical improvements for the study of blood vessels, particularly arteries. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) has some advantages when compared to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). MSCT scanners are widely available in places such as emergency rooms and research centers for the diagnosis and research of stroke. Arterial venous malformations, blunt vascular trauma, aneurysms and several other diseases can also be studied with CTA. Since the early 1990's there has been a considerable increase in the number of publications regarding CTA and its widespread use makes it an essential tool in the radiologist's armamentarium.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - JOCHLE, W.
AU  - MOORE, J. N.
AU  - BROWN, J.
AU  - BAKER, G. J.
AU  - LOWE, J. E.
AU  - FUBINI, S.
AU  - REEVES, M. J.
AU  - WATKINS, J. P.
AU  - WHITE, N. A.
TI  - Comparison of detomidine, butorphanol, flunixin meglumine and xylazine in clinical cases of equine colic
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 21
IS  - S7
SN  - 9781118188750
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1989.tb05668.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1989.tb05668.x
SP  - 111
EP  - 116
PY  - 1989
AB  - Summary Detomidine hydrochloride, butorphanol tartrate, flunixin meglumine and xylazine hydrochloride were evaluated in a blind multi-centre clinical trial in 152 horses with abdominal pain. The drugs were administered as follows: detomidine 20 or 40 ?g/kg bodyweight (bwt); butorphanol 0.1 mg/kg bwt; flunixin meglumine 1.0 mg/kg bwt; xylazine hydrochloride 0.5 mg/kg bwt. Each centre compared responses to the two doses of detomidine with those to one of the other analgesics. The drugs were administered intravenously (iv) after clinical assessment of the degree of sweating, kicking, pawing, head and body movement, attitude, lip curling, stretching to urinate, pulse rate, respiratory rate and rectal temperature. Similar assessments were repeated at 15 min intervals for at least 1 h. The investigators ranked the response to treatment from ?not satisfactory? to ?highly satisfactory?. Significant differences in sweating, kicking, pawing, head and body movement, attitude, pulse rate and respiratory rate were noted between the horses receiving butorphanol and either dose of detomidine. The investigators' subjective evaluation of the analgesic and sedative effects of either dose of detomidine were significantly better than for butorphanol. Analgesia was rated as highly satisfactory or satisfactory in 93.3 per cent and 6.7 per cent of the horses receiving 40 ?g/kg bwt of detomidine, 73.3 per cent and 26.7 per cent of the horses receiving 20 ?g/kg bwt of detomidine, and none of the horses receiving butorphanol. There were no differences in the incidence of side effects with the two compounds. Significant differences were noted in kicking, pawing, head and body movement and attitude between the horses receiving flunixin meglumine and either dose of detomidine. Flunixin meglumine provided significantly less analgesia than either dose of detomidine. Analgesia was rated as highly satisfactory or satisfactory in 73.7 per cent and 21.0 per cent of the horses receiving 40 ?g/kg bwt of detomidine, 42.9 per cent and 21.4 per cent of the horses receiving 20 ?g/kg bwt of detomidine, and 6.3 per cent and 37.5 per cent of the horses receiving xylazine. Sedation was considered to be at least satisfactory in 84.2 per cent of the horses receiving 40 ?g/kg of detomidine, 71.5 per cent of the horses receiving 20 ?g/kg of detomidine and 53.3 per cent of the horses receiving xylazine.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Özvatan, Tülay
AU  - Akalın, Halis
AU  - Sınırtaş, Melda
AU  - Ocakoğlu, Gökhan
AU  - Yılmaz, Emel
AU  - Heper, Yasemin
AU  - Kelebek, Nermin
AU  - İşçimen, Remzi
AU  - Kahveci, Ferda
TI  - Nosocomial Acinetobacter pneumonia: Treatment and prognostic factors in 356 cases
JO  - Respirology
JA  - Respirology
VL  - 21
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781118188750
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/resp.12698
DO  - doi:10.1111/resp.12698
SP  - 363
EP  - 369
KW  - Acinetobacter baumannii
KW  - colistin
KW  - nosocomial pneumonia
KW  - pneumonia
KW  - ventilator-associated pneumonia
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Background and objective Acinetobacter baumannii and A. baumannii/calcoaceticus complex are commonly encountered pathogens in nosocomial infections. This study aimed to evaluate the treatment and prognostic risk factors in nosocomial pneumonia caused by these microorganisms. Methods The study was conducted retrospectively in Uludag University Hospital and included 356 adult non-neutropenic patients with nosocomial pneumonia. Results Of the subjects, 94.9% (n?=?338) had ventilator-associated pneumonia. The clinical response rate was 57.2%, the 14-day mortality 39.6% and the 30-day mortality 53.1%. The significant independent risk factors for the 30-day mortality were severe sepsis (OR, 2.60; 95% CI: 1.49?4.56; P?=?0.001), septic shock (OR, 6.12; 95% CI: 2.75?13.64; P?<?0.001), APACHE II score?≥?20 (OR, 2.12; 95% CI: 1.28?3.50; P?=?0.003) and empiric monotherapy (OR, 1.63; 95% CI: 1.00?2.64; P?=?0.048). Multi-trauma (OR, 2.50; 95% CI: 1.11?5.68; P?=?0.028) was found to be a protective factor. In patients with a clinical pulmonary infection score (CPIS)?>?6 on the third day of treatment, both the 14- and 30-day mortality rates were high (P?<?0.001, P?<?0.001). Also, the 14- and 30-day mortality rates were significantly higher in the patients treated with empiric monotherapy compared with combination therapy (48/93 (51.6%)?46/123 (37.4%), P?=?0.037 and 62/93 (66.7%)?65/123 (52.8%), P?=?0.041, respectively) in pneumonia caused by imipenem-resistant strains. Conclusion Mortality rates were high in pneumonia caused by imipenem-resistant A. baumannii or A. baumannii/calcoaceticus complex. In the units with a high level of carbapenem resistance, antibiotic combinations should be considered for empiric therapy.
ER  - 

AU  - Chao Hu, Charles Kung
AU  - Dolman, Heather
AU  - McGann, Patrick
C7  - pp. 86-94
TI  - Infectious Disease
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118274231.ch8
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118274231.ch8
SP  - 86-94
KW  - infectious disease
KW  - left hemicolectomy, colostomy and Hartmann's pouch, Meropenem regimen
KW  - perforated duodenal omental patch repair, hydrocortisone in shock
KW  - colon resection for ischemic colitis, micafungin as antifungal
KW  - Xigris, contraindication with subarachnoid hemorrhage
KW  - SCIP, exception of postoperative normothermia
KW  - necrotizing fasciitis, and hyperbaric oxygen therapy
KW  - gunshot wounds in abdomen, antibiotics and fungal coverage
KW  - nosocomial urinary tract infection, antibiotics and antifungals
KW  - antibiotic duration in intra-abdominal infection, 4–7 days
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

AU  - McArthur, Staurt
AU  - Hernandez-Divers, Stephen
C7  - pp. 403-464
TI  - Surgery
SN  - 9781405108898
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470698877.ch15
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780470698877.ch15
SP  - 403-464
KW  - surgery
KW  - antibiotics
KW  - ear abscesses
KW  - coeliotomy
KW  - radiography
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary This chapter contains section titled: Pre-Operative Patient Preparation Preparation of the Surgical Site Suture Materialsandsicin Repair Techniques Wound Healing Post-Operative Care Advanced Surgicaltechnology Cloaca1 Organ Prolapse Ear Abscesses Subcutaneous Abscess/Fibriscesses Coeliotomy Central Plastron Osteotomy Prefemoral/Soft-Tissue Flank Approach Lateral Plastronotomy Combined with Prefemoral Approach Ovariectomy Egg Retention Cystotomy Enterotomy Trauma Shell Trauma Limbtrauma Rat-Bite Trauma Jawand Beahtrauma Marine Cheloniantrauma Osteomy Elitis Respiratory Tract Eye Enucleation Microchip Insertion (Terrestrial and Semi-Aquatic Species) Other Surgical Procedure
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rein, Susanne
AU  - Esplugas, Mireia
AU  - Garcia-Elias, Marc
AU  - Magin, Thomas M.
AU  - Randau, Thomas M.
AU  - Siemers, Frank
AU  - Philipps, Hubertus M.
TI  - Immunofluorescence analysis of sensory nerve endings in the interosseous membrane of the forearm
JO  - Journal of Anatomy
JA  - J. Anat.
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 9781405108898
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/joa.13138
DO  - doi:10.1111/joa.13138
KW  - histology
KW  - immunofluorescence
KW  - interosseous membrane
KW  - forearm
KW  - proprioception
AB  - Abstract The human interosseous membrane (IOM) is a fundamental stabilizer during forearm rotation. To investigate the dynamic aspects of forearm stability, we analyzed sensory nerve endings in the IOM. The distal oblique bundle (DOB), the distal accessory band (DAB), the central band (CB), the proximal accessory band (PAB), the dorsal oblique accessory cord (DOAC) and the proximal oblique cord (POC) were dissected from 11 human cadaver forearms. Sensory nerve endings were analyzed at two levels per specimen as total cell amount/mm2 after immunofluorescence staining with low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75, protein gene product 9.5, S-100 protein and 4?,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole on an Apotome microscope, according to Freeman and Wyke?s classification. Sensory nerve endings were significantly more commonly found to be equally distributed throughout the structures, rather than being epifascicular, interstitial, or close to the insertion into bone (P ≤ 0.001, respectively). Free nerve endings were the predominant mechanoreceptor in all six structures, with highest density in the DOB, followed by the POC (P ≤ 0.0001, respectively). The DOB had the highest density of Pacini corpuscles. The DOAC and CB had the lowest amounts of sensory innervation. The high density of sensory corpuscles in the DOB, PAB and POC indicate that proprioceptive control of the compressive and directional muscular forces acting on the distal and proximal radioulnar joints is monitored by the DOB, PAB and POC, respectively, due to their closed proximity to both joints, whereas the central parts of the IOM act as structures of passive restraint.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mori, Kazuhisa
AU  - Itoh, Yasushi
AU  - Saito, Jota
AU  - Takeyama, Yoshihiro
AU  - Kurata, Yoshiaki
AU  - Kaneko, Masamitsu
AU  - Asai, Yasufumi
AU  - Torigoe, Toshihiko
AU  - Dickson, Eric W.
TI  - Post-resuscitative Hypothermic Bypass Reduces Ischemic Brain Injury in Swine
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
VL  - 8
IS  - 10
SN  - 9781405108898
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1553-2712.2001.tb01089.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1553-2712.2001.tb01089.x
SP  - 937
EP  - 945
KW  - hypothermia
KW  - cardiopulmonary resuscitation
KW  - bypass
KW  - cerebral ischemia
KW  - neuroprotection
KW  - hippocampus
PY  - 2001
AB  - Abstract Objectives: Increasing human and laboratory evidence suggests thatpost-resuscitative brain hypothermia reduces the pathologic consequences of brain ischemia. Using a swine model of prolonged cardiac arrest, this investigation sought to determine whether unilateral hypothermic carotid bypass was capable of inducing selective brain hypothermia and reducing neurohistologic damage. Methods: Ventricular fibrillation was induced in common swine (n? 12). After 20 minutes of cardiopulmonary arrest (without ventilatory support or cardiopulmonary resuscitation), systemic extracorporeal bypass was instituted to restore coronary and cerebral perfusion, followed by restoration of normal sinus rhythm. Animals randomized to the normal brain temperature (NBT) cohort received mechanical ventilation and intravenous fluids for 24 hours. The selective brain hypothermia (SBH) cohort received 12 hours of femoral/carotid bypass at 32°C. The bypass temperature was then increased one degree per hour until reaching 37°C and continued at this temperature until completion of the protocol (24 hours). Histopathologic damage was evaluated in two areas of the hippocampus. Results: Normal sinus rhythm was restored in all animals after the systemic (femoral/femoral) bypass was initiated. Nasal temperature (surrogate measure of brain temperature) remained higher than 37.0°C throughout the 24-hour recovery period in the NBT animals. In the SBH cohort, right nasal temperature dropped to the mild hypothermic range (<34°C) two hours after institution of femoral/carotid bypass. This was maintained throughout the 12-hour cooling period without hemodynamic compromise. There was a significant improvement in the neurohistology scores in the CA1 region of the hippocampus of the SBH treated animals as compared with those of the NBT cohort. Conclusions: Post-resuscitative selective brain hypothermia reduced regional ischemic brain damage in swine with prolonged ventricular fibrillation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - MUNOZ, DAVID G.
AU  - ERKINJUNTTI, TIMO
AU  - GAYTAN-GARCIA, SYLVIA
AU  - HACHINSKI, VLADIMIR
TI  - Serum Protein Leakage in Alzheimer's Disease Revisited
JO  - Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences
VL  - 826
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405108898
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1749-6632.1997.tb48469.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1749-6632.1997.tb48469.x
SP  - 173
EP  - 189
PY  - 1997
AB  - ABSTRACT: Leakage of serum proteins into the brain parenchyma has been repeatedly used as evidence of blood-brain barrier (BBB) damage in experimental and human studies. However, there is no consensus in the literature concerning this phenomenon in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have examined this question by comparing frontal lobe sections in seven groups of patients: Multi-infarct dementia (n= 6), AD with (n= 10) and without (n= 10) infarcts, age-matched controls with (n= 10) and without (n= 10) infarcts, controls with neurodegenerative diseases other than AD, and young controls (n= 10). An additional series compared prospectively followed patients with a diagnosis of either multi-infarct dementia (n= 5) or AD (n= 4). Albumin was detected in white-matter astrocytes in all cases, without significant variation in intensity. In addition, diverse combinations of neurons, astrocytes, and (in AD patients) senile plaques were present in the cerebral cortex in an inconsistent manner. Semiquantitative analysis showed no statistically significant differences among groups. Anti-IgG labeled astrocytes in infarcts only. Complement C3c component was detected in rare amyloid plaques in a minority (15%) of AD cases. Selective labeling of AD-specific lesions in a patchy manner was observed for serum amyloid P. We conclude that there is no immunohistochemical evidence of alteration of the BBB in Alzheimer's disease with or without vascular factors or in old age. Serum amyloid P binds avidly to AD lesions, but our findings are consistent with leakage through the BBB during the agonal or immediate postmortem period. Finally, no specific pattern of abnormality in the BBB was detected in multi-infarct dementia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fletcher, DJ
AU  - Williams, DC
AU  - Imai, A
AU  - Ilkiw, JE
TI  - QUANTITATIVE EEG TO EVALUATE DEPTH OF ANESTHESIA IN THE CAT
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 14
IS  - S1
SN  - 9781405108898
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-4-04035.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-4-04035.x
SP  - S1
EP  - S17
PY  - 2004
AB  - Introduction: Quantitative measures derived from the electroencephalogram (qEEG) have been used extensively in human medicine to assess the function of the brain under clinical manipulation (such as anesthesia and sedation), as well as in disease states (such as head trauma, coma and stroke). The goal of this study was to determine if qEEG measures could be used to predict the response of cats under isoflurane concentration to noxious stimuli. Methods: Twelve cats aged 1?2 years were included. Neurological and physical examination, blood chemistries and CBCs were normal in all cats. Anesthesia was induced with isoflurane (ISO) in O2, the cat was intubated and the femoral artery catheterized. The following physiologic data were collected continuously throughout the course of the experiment: temperature, blood pressure, respiratory rate, heart rate, and end-tidal CO2 and ISO concentrations. An Aspect Medical Systems A-1050 monitor was used to continuously record the raw electroencephalogram (EEG) and several qEEG measures including bispectral index (BIS), spectral edge frequency (SEF), burst suppression ratio (BSR), and total EEG power (POW). ISO concentration was maintained constant for 15?minutes, after which a tail clamp was applied for 1?minute. If the cat responded, the concentration was increased 10% and the procedure repeated. If the cat did not respond, the ISO concentration was decreased 10% and the procedure repeated. The minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) was the midpoint between a positive and negative response and, for each cat, this was determined three times. Results: BIS was significantly lower in cats at the lowest concentration at which there was no response (MAC?, 21.3±28.3) than at the highest concentration at which there was a response (MAC+, 63.4±22.1; p<.01, Wilcoxon signed rank). However, in 3/12 cats (25%), BIS was higher at MAC? than at MAC+. Of the other qEEG measures, only BSR was significantly different between MAC? and MAC+ (50.4±34.4 vs. 6.1±19.4, p<.01). Of the physiologic data collected, only respiratory rate was different between MAC? and MAC+ (29.4±10.0 vs. 45.3±17.9, p<.05). Conclusions: These results suggest that qEEG measures may be useful for anesthesia monitoring in cats, but measures that are less species-specific than the BIS may hold more promise. In addition, this work suggests that further studies utilizing qEEG measures for evaluation of sedation during ventilation as well as outcome prediction in animals with head trauma and critical illnesses with CNS complications are indicated.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Diaz-Siso, J. R.
AU  - Fischer, S.
AU  - Sisk, G. C.
AU  - Bueno, E.
AU  - Kueckelhaus, M.
AU  - Talbot, S.
AU  - Carty, M. J.
AU  - Treister, N. S.
AU  - Marty, F.
AU  - Milford, E. L.
AU  - Pomahac, B.
AU  - Tullius, S. G.
TI  - Initial Experience of Dual Maintenance Immunosuppression With Steroid Withdrawal in Vascular Composite Tissue Allotransplantation
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 15
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781405108898
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.13103
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.13103
SP  - 1421
EP  - 1431
KW  - clinical research / practice
KW  - vascularized composite and reconstructive transplantation
KW  - drug toxicity
KW  - immunosuppressant
KW  - steroid
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Current immunosuppression in VCA is largely based on the experience in solid organ transplantation. It remains unclear if steroids can be reduced safely in VCA recipients. We report on five VCA recipients who were weaned off maintenance steroids after a median of 2 months (mean: 4.8 months, range 2?12 months). Patients were kept subsequently on a low dose, dual maintenance consisting of tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil/mycophenloic acid with a mean follow-up of 43.6 months (median?=?40 months, range 34?64 months). Early and late acute rejections responded well to temporarily augmented maintenance, topical immunosuppression, and/or steroid bolus treatment. One late steroid-resistant acute rejection required treatment with thymoglobulin. All patients have been gradually weaned off steroids subsequent to the treatment of acute rejections. Low levels of tacrolimus (<5?ng/mL) appeared as a risk for acute rejections. Although further experience and a cautious approach are warranted, dual-steroid free maintenance immunosuppression appears feasible in a series of five VCA recipients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Allcock, Edward
AU  - Spencer, Eliot
AU  - Frazer, R.
AU  - Applegate, Gregory
AU  - Buckenmaier III, Chester
TI  - Continuous Transversus Abdominis Plane (TAP) Block Catheters in a Combat Surgical Environment
JO  - Pain Medicine
VL  - 11
IS  - 9
SN  - 9781405108898
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1526-4637.2010.00894.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1526-4637.2010.00894.x
SP  - 1426
EP  - 1429
KW  - Transversus Abdominis Plane Analgesia
KW  - Continuous Peripheral Nerve Block
KW  - Postoperative Regional Anesthesia
KW  - Neuraxial Anesthesia and Coagulopathy
KW  - Combat Anesthesia
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Objectives.? The ongoing conflict in Afghanistan continues to generate a large number of complex trauma injuries and provides unique challenges to military anesthetists working in forward field hospitals. We report successful use of ultrasound-guided continuous transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block in two Afghan war casualties who sustained major trauma with coagulopathy. The use of bilateral continuous TAP blocks following major thoracoabdominal trauma in a combat environment is unique in the literature. Design.? Case report. Results.? The acute perioperative outcomes of two Afghan civilian patients were improved with bilateral continuous TAP blocks. Multiple benefits shared by both patients included early extubation, excellent analgesia, and minimal post-operative morphine requirements despite the setting of a massive blood transfusion and coagulopathy. Conclusions.? A continuous TAP block technique can be utilized to provide excellent analgesia following major abdominal surgery when neuraxial anesthesia is contraindicated. The TAP block's ease of placement under ultrasound guidance makes this technique particularly useful in the austere battlefield hospital environment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hollis, Georgie
TI  - Wound cleansing: Have we learned anything?
JO  - Companion Animal
VL  - 17
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781405108898
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2044-3862.2012.00188.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2044-3862.2012.00188.x
SP  - 15
EP  - 20
PY  - 2012
AB  - ABSTRACT: Wound cleansing has been practised for centuries and despite our advances in the medical field there is still much confusion about which solution to use for cleansing wounds in practice. From boiled water to cytotoxic chemicals the annihilation of bacteria has become our biggest obsession but it should not be at the expense of the healing process. As multi-resistant organisms begin to reduce our options for antibiotic use it appears that dilution remains the solution to pollution.
ER  - 
