
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tsai, Hsiang-Lin
AU  - Miao, Zhi-Feng
AU  - Chen, Yi-Ting
AU  - Huang, Ching-Wen
AU  - Yeh, Yung-Sung
AU  - Yang, I-Ping
AU  - Wang, Jaw-Yuan
TI  - miR-148a inhibits early relapsed colorectal cancers and the secretion of VEGF by indirectly targeting HIF-1α under non-hypoxia/hypoxia conditions
JO  - Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
JA  - J Cell Mol Med
VL  - 23
IS  - 5
SN  - 1582-1838
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jcmm.14257
DO  - doi:10.1111/jcmm.14257
SP  - 3572
EP  - 3582
KW  - colorectal cancers
KW  - early relapse
KW  - HIF-1α
KW  - miR-148a
KW  - non-hypoxia/hypoxia conditions
KW  - VEGF
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is correlated with angiogenesis and early relapse of colorectal cancer (CRC). This study investigated the role of miR-148a in the regulation of VEGF/angiogenesis and early relapse of CRC. We established a stable clone with miR-148a expression in HCT116 and HT29 cell lines and created a hypoxic condition by using CoCl2 to determine the underlying mechanism of miR-148a. The effects of miR-148a on the phosphoryl-ERK (pERK)/hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α)/VEGF pathway were evaluated through Western blotting and the inhibitory effect of miR-148a on angiogenesis was demonstrated through a tube formation assay. Sixty-three CRC tissues (28 early relapse and 35 non-early relapse) were analysed to assess the relationship between miR-148a and HIF-1α/VEGF. The protein expression of pERK/HIF-1α/VEGF in HCT116 and HT29 cells was significantly decreased by miR-148a (all P < 0.05). The protein expression of VEGF/HIF-1α was strongly inversely associated with the expression of miR-148a in the 63 CRC tissue samples (all P < 0.05). Tube formation assay demonstrated that miR-148a significantly obliterated angiogenesis. miR-148a suppresses VEGF through down-regulation of the pERK/HIF-1α/VEGF pathway and might lead to the inhibition of angiogenesis; miR-148a down-regulation increased the early relapse rate of CRC. This demonstrates that miR-148a is a potential diagnostic and therapeutic target.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Forraz, N
AU  - Wright, KE
AU  - Jurga, M
AU  - McGuckin, CP
TI  - Experimental therapies for repair of the central nervous system: stem cells and tissue engineering
JO  - Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine
JA  - J Tissue Eng Regen Med
VL  - 7
IS  - 7
SN  - 1932-6254
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/term.552
DO  - doi:10.1002/term.552
SP  - 523
EP  - 536
KW  - regenerative medicine
KW  - brain repair
KW  - bioscaffolds
KW  - artificial tissue
KW  - stroke
KW  - traumatic brain injury
KW  - neurogenesis
KW  - neuronal differentiation
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Several stem cell-based therapeutic tools are currently being investigated for the regeneration of central nervous system (CNS) injuries. This review focuses on innovative approaches for CNS tissue repair via the use of implantable cellular devices. These devices are supported by biopharmaceuticals and conventional physiotherapy for the restoration of lost neuronal circuits and CNS function. This paper further reviews new and promising tools currently in pre-clinical and clinical tests for the treatment of CNS diseases where substantial loss of cellular and extracellular components of neural tissue has occurred such as stroke, encephalopathy and traumatic neural injuries. We also discuss selected 3D bioscaffolds co-cultured with clinically applicable human mesenchymal stem cells. Recent advances in neural tissue engineering and stem cell differentiation methods have shown promise for their clinical application in treating yet incurable CNS deficits. Copyright ? 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Scientific Presentation Abstracts: 2016 European College Veterinary Surgeons 25th Annual Scientific Meeting, July 7–9, 2016—Lisbon, Portugal, Centro Cultural de Belem
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 45
IS  - 6
SN  - 0161-3499
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.12500
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.12500
SP  - E1
EP  - E22
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fahy, Niamh
AU  - Alini, Mauro
AU  - Stoddart, Martin J.
TI  - Mechanical stimulation of mesenchymal stem cells: Implications for cartilage tissue engineering
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 36
IS  - 1
SN  - 0736-0266
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.23670
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.23670
SP  - 52
EP  - 63
KW  - articular cartilage
KW  - biomechanics
KW  - mesenchymal stem cells
KW  - chondrogenesis
PY  - 2018
AB  - ABSTRACT Articular cartilage is a load-bearing tissue playing a crucial mechanical role in diarthrodial joints, facilitating joint articulation, and minimizing wear. The significance of biomechanical stimuli in the development of cartilage and maintenance of chondrocyte phenotype in adult tissues has been well documented. Furthermore, dysregulated loading is associated with cartilage pathology highlighting the importance of mechanical cues in cartilage homeostasis. The repair of damaged articular cartilage resulting from trauma or degenerative joint disease poses a major challenge due to a low intrinsic capacity of cartilage for self-renewal, attributable to its avascular nature. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are considered a promising cell type for cartilage replacement strategies due to their chondrogenic differentiation potential. Chondrogenesis of MSCs is influenced not only by biological factors but also by the environment itself, and various efforts to date have focused on harnessing biomechanics to enhance chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs. Furthermore, recapitulating mechanical cues associated with cartilage development and homeostasis in vivo, may facilitate the development of a cellular phenotype resembling native articular cartilage. The goal of this review is to summarize current literature examining the effect of mechanical cues on cartilage homeostasis, disease, and MSC chondrogenesis. The role of biological factors produced by MSCs in response to mechanical loading will also be examined. An in-depth understanding of the impact of mechanical stimulation on the chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs in terms of endogenous bioactive factor production and signaling pathways involved, may identify therapeutic targets and facilitate the development of more robust strategies for cartilage replacement using MSCs. ? 2017 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 36:52?63, 2018.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - SAEM Abstracts, Plenary Session
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
VL  - 19
IS  - s1
SN  - 1069-6563
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1553-2712.2012.01332.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1553-2712.2012.01332.x
SP  - S4
EP  - S393
PY  - 2012
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Acharya, Sreemukta
AU  - Hartmann, Mark
AU  - Erhardt, Sylvia
C7  - e1435
TI  - Chromatin-associated noncoding RNAs in development and inheritance
JO  - WIREs RNA
JA  - WIREs RNA
VL  - 8
IS  - 6
SN  - 1757-7004
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/wrna.1435
DO  - doi:10.1002/wrna.1435
SP  - e1435
PY  - 2017
AB  - Noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) have emerged as crucial players in chromatin regulation. Their diversity allows them to partake in the regulation of numerous cellular processes across species. During development, long and short ncRNAs act in conjunction with each other where long ncRNAs (lncRNAs) are best understood in establishing appropriate gene expression patterns, while short ncRNAs (sRNAs) are known to establish constitutive heterochromatin and suppress mobile elements. Additionally, increasing evidence demonstrates roles of sRNAs in several typically lncRNA-mediated processes such as dosage compensation, indicating a complex regulatory network of noncoding RNAs. Together, various ncRNAs establish many mitotically heritable epigenetic marks during development. Additionally, they participate in mechanisms that regulate maintenance of these epigenetic marks during the lifespan of the organism. Interestingly, some epigenetic traits are transmitted to the next generation(s) via paramutations or transgenerational inheritance mediated by sRNAs. In this review, we give an overview of the various functions and regulations of ncRNAs and the mechanisms they employ in the establishment and maintenance of epigenetic marks and multi-generational transmission of epigenetic traits. WIREs RNA 2017, 8:e1435. doi: 10.1002/wrna.1435 This article is categorized under: RNA Interactions with Proteins and Other Molecules > Protein?RNA Interactions: Functional Implications Regulatory RNAs/RNAi/Riboswitches > Regulatory RNAs RNA in Disease and Development > RNA in Development
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dunn, Andrew
AU  - Talovic, Muhamed
AU  - Patel, Krishna
AU  - Patel, Anjali
AU  - Marcinczyk, Madison
AU  - Garg, Koyal
TI  - Biomaterial and stem cell-based strategies for skeletal muscle regeneration
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 37
IS  - 6
SN  - 0736-0266
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.24212
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.24212
SP  - 1246
EP  - 1262
KW  - Skeletal muscle
KW  - stem cells
KW  - biomaterials
KW  - regeneration
PY  - 2019
AB  - ABSTRACT Adult skeletal muscle can regenerate effectively after mild physical or chemical insult. Muscle trauma or disease can overwhelm this innate capacity for regeneration and result in heightened inflammation and fibrotic tissue deposition resulting in loss of structure and function. Recent studies have focused on biomaterial and stem cell-based therapies to promote skeletal muscle regeneration following injury and disease. Many stem cell populations besides satellite cells are implicated in muscle regeneration. These stem cells include but are not limited to mesenchymal stem cells, adipose-derived stem cells, hematopoietic stem cells, pericytes, fibroadipogenic progenitors, side population cells, and CD133+ stem cells. However, several challenges associated with their isolation, availability, delivery, survival, engraftment, and differentiation have been reported in recent studies. While acellular scaffolds offer a relatively safe and potentially off-the-shelf solution to cell-based therapies, they are often unable to stimulate host cell migration and activity to a level that would result in clinically meaningful regeneration of traumatized muscle. Combining stem cells and biomaterials may offer a viable therapeutic strategy that may overcome the limitations associated with these therapies when they are used in isolation. In this article, we review the stem cell populations that can stimulate muscle regeneration in vitro and in vivo. We also discuss the regenerative potential of combination therapies that utilize both stem cell and biomaterials for the treatment of skeletal muscle injury and disease. ? 2019 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 37:1246?1262, 2019.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 2002 SAEM ANNUAL MEETING ABSTRACTS
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
VL  - 9
IS  - 5
SN  - 1069-6563
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1553-2712.2002.tb02290.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1553-2712.2002.tb02290.x
SP  - 357
EP  - 542
PY  - 2002
ER  - 

AU  - Hasday, Jeffrey D.
AU  - Thompson, Christopher
AU  - Singh, Ishwar S.
C7  - pp. 109-148
TI  - Fever, Immunity, and Molecular Adaptations
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cphy.c130019
DO  - doi:10.1002/cphy.c130019
SP  - 109-148
PY  - 2002
AB  - AbstractThe heat shock response (HSR) is an ancient and highly conserved process that is essential for coping with environmental stresses, including extremes of temperature. Fever is a more recently evolved response, during which organisms temporarily subject themselves to thermal stress in the face of infections. We review the phylogenetically conserved mechanisms that regulate fever and discuss the effects that febrile-range temperatures have on multiple biological processes involved in host defense and cell death and survival, including the HSR and its implications for patients with severe sepsis, trauma, and other acute systemic inflammatory states. Heat shock factor-1, a heat-induced transcriptional enhancer is not only the central regulator of the HSR but also regulates expression of pivotal cytokines and early response genes. Febrile-range temperatures exert additional immunomodulatory effects by activating mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades and accelerating apoptosis in some cell types. This results in accelerated pathogen clearance, but increased collateral tissue injury, thus the net effect of exposure to febrile range temperature depends in part on the site and nature of the pathologic process and the specific treatment provided. ? 2014 American Physiological Society. Compr Physiol 4:109-148, 2014.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tian, Ye
AU  - Chen, Jian
AU  - Zahtabi, Fatemeh
AU  - Keijzer, Richard
AU  - Xing, Malcolm
TI  - Nanomedicine as an innovative therapeutic strategy for pediatric lung diseases
JO  - Pediatric Pulmonology
JA  - Pediatr Pulmonol.
VL  - 48
IS  - 11
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ppul.22657
DO  - doi:10.1002/ppul.22657
SP  - 1098
EP  - 1111
KW  - nanomedicine
KW  - lung
KW  - targeted release
KW  - drug delivery
KW  - gene delivery
KW  - nanotoxicity
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Nanomedicine is a rapidly emerging technology and represents an innovative field for therapy. Nanomaterials have intrinsically defined features for biomedical applications due to the high specific surface area, the amazing diversity, versatility in structure and function and the possibility of surface charge. In particular, the functionalization of targeting or stimuli-responsive unit on the surface of these materials gives them specific targeted therapeutic properties. There are many pediatric lung diseases that could potentially benefit from nanomedicine. Herein, we aim to review various drug carrier systems and release systems specifically targeting pediatric lung diseases. The injection of nanomedicine into in vivo models and their elimination will also be discussed. Finally, the potential toxicity of nanomaterials will be addressed. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2013; 48:1098?1111. ? 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 2000 SAEM ANNUAL MEETING ABSTRACTS
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
VL  - 7
IS  - 5
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1553-2712.2000.tb03837.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1553-2712.2000.tb03837.x
SP  - 425
EP  - 595
PY  - 2000
AB  - In this special issue of Academic Emergency Medicine, the Editorial Board is privileged to present the Original Research Abstracts from the Annual Meeting of the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine (SAEM), May 22?25, 2000, San Francisco, CA. The depth, breadth, and future of our specialty and our practice are reflected in these brief research summaries; the creativity, talent, and dedication of our researcher colleagues are documented on these pages. We are honored to be able to share them with you. This year, 990 abstracts were received and considered for presentation at the Annual Meeting. Fifty percent were submitted electronically. Each abstract was evaluated by six to nine independent reviewers who were blinded to the author, the study institution, and the other reviewers. Final determinations for acceptance were made by members of the Scientific Subcommittee, chaired by Judd Hollander, and the Program Committee chair, Sue Stern. These decisions were based on the mean score received after review and the space available for presentations within the program. The type of presentation (oral platform vs poster), the assigned topic section, and the position of presentation in the program were also determined. As was the case last year, we have reproduced these abstracts from electronic versions supplied by the submitting authors. In general, we have not edited, proofread, changed, or corrected the abstracts; they appear as submitted by the authors, who are responsible for their content. Presentation numbers precede the abstract titles. The institution listed is that of the presenting author. A list of common abbreviations used in the abstracts begins on page 596. An index to key words, authors, and topics begins on page 598.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Scientific Presentation Abstracts: 2017 ACVS Surgery Summit October 12-14, Indianapolis, Indiana
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 46
IS  - 7
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.12710
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.12710
SP  - E1
EP  - E75
PY  - 2017
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - LeGolvan, Mark P.
AU  - Resnick, Murray
TI  - Pathobiology of colorectal cancer hepatic metastases with an emphasis on prognostic factors
JO  - Journal of Surgical Oncology
JA  - J. Surg. Oncol.
VL  - 102
IS  - 8
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jso.21817
DO  - doi:10.1002/jso.21817
SP  - 898
EP  - 908
KW  - angiogenesis
KW  - cadherins
KW  - epithelial–mesenchymal transformation EMT
KW  - integrins
KW  - miRNA
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer related death in the United States. The majority of these deaths are due to metastasis, with the liver easily accounting as the most common site of deposit. While there are multiple steps in the CRC hepatic metastatic cascade, this review attempts to summarize the different processes involved, focusing on the most recent discoveries, as well as the associated effects in relation to prognosis. J. Surg. Oncol. 2010;102:898?908. ? 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zhao, Ni
AU  - Zhan, Xiang
AU  - Huang, Yen-Tsung
AU  - Almli, Lynn M
AU  - Smith, Alicia
AU  - Epstein, Michael P.
AU  - Conneely, Karen
AU  - Wu, Michael C.
TI  - Kernel machine methods for integrative analysis of genome-wide methylation and genotyping studies
JO  - Genetic Epidemiology
JA  - Genet. Epidemiol.
VL  - 42
IS  - 2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/gepi.22100
DO  - doi:10.1002/gepi.22100
SP  - 156
EP  - 167
KW  - kernel machine regression
KW  - composite kernel
KW  - variance component test
KW  - integrative analysis
PY  - 2018
AB  - ABSTRACT Many large GWAS consortia are expanding to simultaneously examine the joint role of DNA methylation in addition to genotype in the same subjects. However, integrating information from both data types is challenging. In this paper, we propose a composite kernel machine regression model to test the joint epigenetic and genetic effect. Our approach works at the gene level, which allows for a common unit of analysis across different data types. The model compares the pairwise similarities in the phenotype to the pairwise similarities in the genotype and methylation values; and high correspondence is suggestive of association. A composite kernel is constructed to measure the similarities in the genotype and methylation values between pairs of samples. We demonstrate through simulations and real data applications that the proposed approach can correctly control type I error, and is more robust and powerful than using only the genotype or methylation data in detecting trait-associated genes. We applied our method to investigate the genetic and epigenetic regulation of gene expression in response to stressful life events using data that are collected from the Grady Trauma Project. Within the kernel machine testing framework, our methods allow for heterogeneity in effect sizes, nonlinear, and interactive effects, as well as rapid P-value computation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ding, Yaping
AU  - Li, Wei
AU  - Zhang, Feng
AU  - Liu, Zehua
AU  - Zanjanizadeh Ezazi, Nazanin
AU  - Liu, Dongfei
AU  - Santos, Hélder A.
C7  - 1802852
TI  - Electrospun Fibrous Architectures for Drug Delivery, Tissue Engineering and Cancer Therapy
JO  - Advanced Functional Materials
JA  - Adv. Funct. Mater.
VL  - 29
IS  - 2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201802852
DO  - doi:10.1002/adfm.201802852
SP  - 1802852
KW  - cancer therapy
KW  - drug delivery
KW  - electrospinning
KW  - tissue engineering
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract The versatile electrospinning technique is recognized as an efficient strategy to deliver active pharmaceutical ingredients and has gained tremendous progress in drug delivery, tissue engineering, cancer therapy, and disease diagnosis. Numerous drug delivery systems fabricated through electrospinning regarding the carrier compositions, drug incorporation techniques, release kinetics, and the subsequent therapeutic efficacy are presented herein. Targeting for distinct applications, the composition of drug carriers vary from natural/synthetic polymers/blends, inorganic materials, and even hybrids. Various drug incorporation approaches through electrospinning are thoroughly discussed with respect to the principles, benefits, and limitations. To meet the various requirements in actual sophisticated in vivo environments and to overcome the limitations of a single carrier system, feasible combinations of multiple drug-inclusion processes via electrospinning could be employed to achieve programmed, multi-staged, or stimuli-triggered release of multiple drugs. The therapeutic efficacy of the designed electrospun drug-eluting systems is further verified in multiple biomedical applications and is comprehensively overviewed, demonstrating promising potential to address a variety of clinical challenges.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hao, Zi-Chen
AU  - Lu, Jun
AU  - Wang, Shan-Zheng
AU  - Wu, Hao
AU  - Zhang, Yun-Tong
AU  - Xu, Shuo-Gui
C7  - e12359
TI  - Stem cell-derived exosomes: A promising strategy for fracture healing
JO  - Cell Proliferation
JA  - Cell Prolif
VL  - 50
IS  - 5
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cpr.12359
DO  - doi:10.1111/cpr.12359
SP  - e12359
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Objectives To describe the biological characteristics of exosomes and to summarize the current status of stem cell-derived exosomes on fracture healing. Meanwhile, future challenges, limitations and perspectives are also discussed. Methods Search and analyze the related articles in pubmed database through the multi-combination of keywords like ?stem cells?,?exosomes?,?bone regeneration? and ?fracture healing?. Conclusion Stem cell-derived exosome therapy for fracture healing has been enjoying popularity and is drawing increasing attention. This strategy helps to promote proliferation and migration of cells, as well as osteogenesis and angiogenesis, in the process of bone formation. Although the exact mechanisms remain elusive, exosomal miRNAs seem to play vital roles. Future studies are required to solve multiple problems before clinical application, including comprehensive and thorough understanding of exosomes, the exact roles of exosomes in regulating bone formation, and the optimal source, dose and frequency of treatment, as well as technical and safety issues. Moreover, studies based on fracture models of large animals are could offer guidance and are in demand.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cattani, Adriano A.
AU  - Allene, Camille
AU  - Seifert, Volker
AU  - Rosenow, Felix
AU  - Henshall, David C.
AU  - Freiman, Thomas M.
TI  - Involvement of microRNAs in epileptogenesis
JO  - Epilepsia
JA  - Epilepsia
VL  - 57
IS  - 7
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/epi.13404
DO  - doi:10.1111/epi.13404
SP  - 1015
EP  - 1026
KW  - Neuroinflammation
KW  - Cell proliferation and differentiation
KW  - Cellular migration
KW  - Neuronal death
KW  - Synaptic remodeling
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Patients who have sustained brain injury or had developmental brain lesions present a non-negligible risk for developing delayed epilepsy. Finding therapeutic strategies to prevent development of epilepsy in at-risk patients represents a crucial medical challenge. Noncoding microRNA molecules (miRNAs) are promising candidates in this area. Indeed, deregulation of diverse brain-specific miRNAs has been observed in animal models of epilepsy as well as in patients with epilepsy, mostly in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Herein we review deregulated miRNAs reported in epilepsy with potential roles in key molecular and cellular processes underlying epileptogenesis, namely neuroinflammation, cell proliferation and differentiation, migration, apoptosis, and synaptic remodeling. We provide an up-to-date listing of miRNAs altered in epileptogenesis and assess recent functional studies that have interrogated their role in epilepsy. Last, we discuss potential applications of these findings for the future development of disease-modifying therapeutic strategies for antiepileptogenesis.
ER  - 

AU  - Vertès, Alain A.
AU  - Dowden, Nathan J.
C7  - pp. 665-692
TI  - History of monoclonal antibodies and lessons for the development of stem cell therapeutics
SN  - 9781119971399
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118846193.ch33
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118846193.ch33
SP  - 665-692
KW  - monoclonal antibody
KW  - stem cell
KW  - regenerative medicine
KW  - transformational innovation
KW  - disruptive innovation
KW  - radical innovation
KW  - technology S-curve
KW  - mAb
KW  - therapeutic
KW  - blockbuster
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary The journey from emerging technology to therapeutic paradigm change follows a rocky road. The development of monoclonal antibodies as a commercially viable industry exemplifies this. Several technological S-curves have been navigated to make mAbs the conventional pharmaceuticals that they have become today: from discovery and engineering to clinical translation and industrial scale manufacturing. The transformational nature of these new molecules has generated a multi-billion dollar global industry. A historic recollection of the defining events that shaped the mAb technology is particularly relevant to regenerative medicine in general and therapeutic stem cells in particular. A point of inflexion in the value of mAb transactions occurred with the commercial success of the first mAb blockbuster (rituximab), triggering multi-billion USD licensing transactions and very large M (3) enhancement of biological attributes, (4) combination with conventional drugs, (5) delivery devices and formulation, and (6) solid organ transplantation. Each co-evolutionary advance contributes to the clinical, economic and access to care value proposition that makes or breaks a technology, as it transitions from bench to bedside.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cossarizza, Andrea
AU  - Chang, Hyun-Dong
AU  - Radbruch, Andreas
AU  - Acs, Andreas
AU  - Adam, Dieter
AU  - Adam-Klages, Sabine
AU  - Agace, William W.
AU  - Aghaeepour, Nima
AU  - Akdis, Mübeccel
AU  - Allez, Matthieu
AU  - Almeida, Larissa Nogueira
AU  - Alvisi, Giorgia
AU  - Anderson, Graham
AU  - Andrä, Immanuel
AU  - Annunziato, Francesco
AU  - Anselmo, Achille
AU  - Bacher, Petra
AU  - Baldari, Cosima T.
AU  - Bari, Sudipto
AU  - Barnaba, Vincenzo
AU  - Barros-Martins, Joana
AU  - Battistini, Luca
AU  - Bauer, Wolfgang
AU  - Baumgart, Sabine
AU  - Baumgarth, Nicole
AU  - Baumjohann, Dirk
AU  - Baying, Bianka
AU  - Bebawy, Mary
AU  - Becher, Burkhard
AU  - Beisker, Wolfgang
AU  - Benes, Vladimir
AU  - Beyaert, Rudi
AU  - Blanco, Alfonso
AU  - Boardman, Dominic A.
AU  - Bogdan, Christian
AU  - Borger, Jessica G.
AU  - Borsellino, Giovanna
AU  - Boulais, Philip E.
AU  - Bradford, Jolene A.
AU  - Brenner, Dirk
AU  - Brinkman, Ryan R.
AU  - Brooks, Anna E. S.
AU  - Busch, Dirk H.
AU  - Büscher, Martin
AU  - Bushnell, Timothy P.
AU  - Calzetti, Federica
AU  - Cameron, Garth
AU  - Cammarata, Ilenia
AU  - Cao, Xuetao
AU  - Cardell, Susanna L.
AU  - Casola, Stefano
AU  - Cassatella, Marco A.
AU  - Cavani, Andrea
AU  - Celada, Antonio
AU  - Chatenoud, Lucienne
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Pratip K.
AU  - Chow, Sue
AU  - Christakou, Eleni
AU  - Čičin-Šain, Luka
AU  - Clerici, Mario
AU  - Colombo, Federico S.
AU  - Cook, Laura
AU  - Cooke, Anne
AU  - Cooper, Andrea M.
AU  - Corbett, Alexandra J.
AU  - Cosma, Antonio
AU  - Cosmi, Lorenzo
AU  - Coulie, Pierre G.
AU  - Cumano, Ana
AU  - Cvetkovic, Ljiljana
AU  - Dang, Van Duc
AU  - Dang-Heine, Chantip
AU  - Davey, Martin S.
AU  - Davies, Derek
AU  - De Biasi, Sara
AU  - Del Zotto, Genny
AU  - Dela Cruz, Gelo Victoriano
AU  - Delacher, Michael
AU  - Della Bella, Silvia
AU  - Dellabona, Paolo
AU  - Deniz, Günnur
AU  - Dessing, Mark
AU  - Di Santo, James P.
AU  - Diefenbach, Andreas
AU  - Dieli, Francesco
AU  - Dolf, Andreas
AU  - Dörner, Thomas
AU  - Dress, Regine J.
AU  - Dudziak, Diana
AU  - Dustin, Michael
AU  - Dutertre, Charles-Antoine
AU  - Ebner, Friederike
AU  - Eckle, Sidonia B. G.
AU  - Edinger, Matthias
AU  - Eede, Pascale
AU  - Ehrhardt, Götz R.A.
AU  - Eich, Marcus
AU  - Engel, Pablo
AU  - Engelhardt, Britta
AU  - Erdei, Anna
AU  - Esser, Charlotte
AU  - Everts, Bart
AU  - Evrard, Maximilien
AU  - Falk, Christine S.
AU  - Fehniger, Todd A.
AU  - Felipo-Benavent, Mar
AU  - Ferry, Helen
AU  - Feuerer, Markus
AU  - Filby, Andrew
AU  - Filkor, Kata
AU  - Fillatreau, Simon
AU  - Follo, Marie
AU  - Förster, Irmgard
AU  - Foster, John
AU  - Foulds, Gemma A.
AU  - Frehse, Britta
AU  - Frenette, Paul S.
AU  - Frischbutter, Stefan
AU  - Fritzsche, Wolfgang
AU  - Galbraith, David W.
AU  - Gangaev, Anastasia
AU  - Garbi, Natalio
AU  - Gaudilliere, Brice
AU  - Gazzinelli, Ricardo T.
AU  - Geginat, Jens
AU  - Gerner, Wilhelm
AU  - Gherardin, Nicholas A.
AU  - Ghoreschi, Kamran
AU  - Gibellini, Lara
AU  - Ginhoux, Florent
AU  - Goda, Keisuke
AU  - Godfrey, Dale I.
AU  - Goettlinger, Christoph
AU  - González-Navajas, Jose M.
AU  - Goodyear, Carl S.
AU  - Gori, Andrea
AU  - Grogan, Jane L.
AU  - Grummitt, Daryl
AU  - Grützkau, Andreas
AU  - Haftmann, Claudia
AU  - Hahn, Jonas
AU  - Hammad, Hamida
AU  - Hämmerling, Günter
AU  - Hansmann, Leo
AU  - Hansson, Goran
AU  - Harpur, Christopher M.
AU  - Hartmann, Susanne
AU  - Hauser, Andrea
AU  - Hauser, Anja E.
AU  - Haviland, David L.
AU  - Hedley, David
AU  - Hernández, Daniela C.
AU  - Herrera, Guadalupe
AU  - Herrmann, Martin
AU  - Hess, Christoph
AU  - Höfer, Thomas
AU  - Hoffmann, Petra
AU  - Hogquist, Kristin
AU  - Holland, Tristan
AU  - Höllt, Thomas
AU  - Holmdahl, Rikard
AU  - Hombrink, Pleun
AU  - Houston, Jessica P.
AU  - Hoyer, Bimba F.
AU  - Huang, Bo
AU  - Huang, Fang-Ping
AU  - Huber, Johanna E.
AU  - Huehn, Jochen
AU  - Hundemer, Michael
AU  - Hunter, Christopher A.
AU  - Hwang, William Y. K.
AU  - Iannone, Anna
AU  - Ingelfinger, Florian
AU  - Ivison, Sabine M
AU  - Jäck, Hans-Martin
AU  - Jani, Peter K.
AU  - Jávega, Beatriz
AU  - Jonjic, Stipan
AU  - Kaiser, Toralf
AU  - Kalina, Tomas
AU  - Kamradt, Thomas
AU  - Kaufmann, Stefan H. E.
AU  - Keller, Baerbel
AU  - Ketelaars, Steven L. C.
AU  - Khalilnezhad, Ahad
AU  - Khan, Srijit
AU  - Kisielow, Jan
AU  - Klenerman, Paul
AU  - Knopf, Jasmin
AU  - Koay, Hui-Fern
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Kolls, Jay K.
AU  - Kong, Wan Ting
AU  - Kopf, Manfred
AU  - Korn, Thomas
AU  - Kriegsmann, Katharina
AU  - Kristyanto, Hendy
AU  - Kroneis, Thomas
AU  - Krueger, Andreas
AU  - Kühne, Jenny
AU  - Kukat, Christian
AU  - Kunkel, Désirée
AU  - Kunze-Schumacher, Heike
AU  - Kurosaki, Tomohiro
AU  - Kurts, Christian
AU  - Kvistborg, Pia
AU  - Kwok, Immanuel
AU  - Landry, Jonathan
AU  - Lantz, Olivier
AU  - Lanuti, Paola
AU  - LaRosa, Francesca
AU  - Lehuen, Agnès
AU  - LeibundGut-Landmann, Salomé
AU  - Leipold, Michael D.
AU  - Leung, Leslie Y.T.
AU  - Levings, Megan K.
AU  - Lino, Andreia C.
AU  - Liotta, Francesco
AU  - Litwin, Virginia
AU  - Liu, Yanling
AU  - Ljunggren, Hans-Gustaf
AU  - Lohoff, Michael
AU  - Lombardi, Giovanna
AU  - Lopez, Lilly
AU  - López-Botet, Miguel
AU  - Lovett-Racke, Amy E.
AU  - Lubberts, Erik
AU  - Luche, Herve
AU  - Ludewig, Burkhard
AU  - Lugli, Enrico
AU  - Lunemann, Sebastian
AU  - Maecker, Holden T.
AU  - Maggi, Laura
AU  - Maguire, Orla
AU  - Mair, Florian
AU  - Mair, Kerstin H.
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
AU  - Manz, Rudolf A.
AU  - Marshall, Aaron J.
AU  - Martínez-Romero, Alicia
AU  - Martrus, Glòria
AU  - Marventano, Ivana
AU  - Maslinski, Wlodzimierz
AU  - Matarese, Giuseppe
AU  - Mattioli, Anna Vittoria
AU  - Maueröder, Christian
AU  - Mazzoni, Alessio
AU  - McCluskey, James
AU  - McGrath, Mairi
AU  - McGuire, Helen M.
AU  - McInnes, Iain B.
AU  - Mei, Henrik E.
AU  - Melchers, Fritz
AU  - Melzer, Susanne
AU  - Mielenz, Dirk
AU  - Miller, Stephen D.
AU  - Mills, Kingston H.G.
AU  - Minderman, Hans
AU  - Mjösberg, Jenny
AU  - Moore, Jonni
AU  - Moran, Barry
AU  - Moretta, Lorenzo
AU  - Mosmann, Tim R.
AU  - Müller, Susann
AU  - Multhoff, Gabriele
AU  - Muñoz, Luis Enrique
AU  - Münz, Christian
AU  - Nakayama, Toshinori
AU  - Nasi, Milena
AU  - Neumann, Katrin
AU  - Ng, Lai Guan
AU  - Niedobitek, Antonia
AU  - Nourshargh, Sussan
AU  - Núñez, Gabriel
AU  - O'Connor, José-Enrique
AU  - Ochel, Aaron
AU  - Oja, Anna
AU  - Ordonez, Diana
AU  - Orfao, Alberto
AU  - Orlowski-Oliver, Eva
AU  - Ouyang, Wenjun
AU  - Oxenius, Annette
AU  - Palankar, Raghavendra
AU  - Panse, Isabel
AU  - Pattanapanyasat, Kovit
AU  - Paulsen, Malte
AU  - Pavlinic, Dinko
AU  - Penter, Livius
AU  - Peterson, Pärt
AU  - Peth, Christian
AU  - Petriz, Jordi
AU  - Piancone, Federica
AU  - Pickl, Winfried F.
AU  - Piconese, Silvia
AU  - Pinti, Marcello
AU  - Pockley, A. Graham
AU  - Podolska, Malgorzata Justyna
AU  - Poon, Zhiyong
AU  - Pracht, Katharina
AU  - Prinz, Immo
AU  - Pucillo, Carlo E. M.
AU  - Quataert, Sally A.
AU  - Quatrini, Linda
AU  - Quinn, Kylie M.
AU  - Radbruch, Helena
AU  - Radstake, Tim R. D. J.
AU  - Rahmig, Susann
AU  - Rahn, Hans-Peter
AU  - Rajwa, Bartek
AU  - Ravichandran, Gevitha
AU  - Raz, Yotam
AU  - Rebhahn, Jonathan A.
AU  - Recktenwald, Diether
AU  - Reimer, Dorothea
AU  - Reis e Sousa, Caetano
AU  - Remmerswaal, Ester B.M.
AU  - Richter, Lisa
AU  - Rico, Laura G.
AU  - Riddell, Andy
AU  - Rieger, Aja M.
AU  - Robinson, J. Paul
AU  - Romagnani, Chiara
AU  - Rubartelli, Anna
AU  - Ruland, Jürgen
AU  - Saalmüller, Armin
AU  - Saeys, Yvan
AU  - Saito, Takashi
AU  - Sakaguchi, Shimon
AU  - Sala-de-Oyanguren, Francisco
AU  - Samstag, Yvonne
AU  - Sanderson, Sharon
AU  - Sandrock, Inga
AU  - Santoni, Angela
AU  - Sanz, Ramon Bellmàs
AU  - Saresella, Marina
AU  - Sautes-Fridman, Catherine
AU  - Sawitzki, Birgit
AU  - Schadt, Linda
AU  - Scheffold, Alexander
AU  - Scherer, Hans U.
AU  - Schiemann, Matthias
AU  - Schildberg, Frank A.
AU  - Schimisky, Esther
AU  - Schlitzer, Andreas
AU  - Schlosser, Josephine
AU  - Schmid, Stephan
AU  - Schmitt, Steffen
AU  - Schober, Kilian
AU  - Schraivogel, Daniel
AU  - Schuh, Wolfgang
AU  - Schüler, Thomas
AU  - Schulte, Reiner
AU  - Schulz, Axel Ronald
AU  - Schulz, Sebastian R.
AU  - Scottá, Cristiano
AU  - Scott-Algara, Daniel
AU  - Sester, David P.
AU  - Shankey, T. Vincent
AU  - Silva-Santos, Bruno
AU  - Simon, Anna Katharina
AU  - Sitnik, Katarzyna M.
AU  - Sozzani, Silvano
AU  - Speiser, Daniel E.
AU  - Spidlen, Josef
AU  - Stahlberg, Anders
AU  - Stall, Alan M.
AU  - Stanley, Natalie
AU  - Stark, Regina
AU  - Stehle, Christina
AU  - Steinmetz, Tobit
AU  - Stockinger, Hannes
AU  - Takahama, Yousuke
AU  - Takeda, Kiyoshi
AU  - Tan, Leonard
AU  - Tárnok, Attila
AU  - Tiegs, Gisa
AU  - Toldi, Gergely
AU  - Tornack, Julia
AU  - Traggiai, Elisabetta
AU  - Trebak, Mohamed
AU  - Tree, Timothy I.M.
AU  - Trotter, Joe
AU  - Trowsdale, John
AU  - Tsoumakidou, Maria
AU  - Ulrich, Henning
AU  - Urbanczyk, Sophia
AU  - van de Veen, Willem
AU  - van den Broek, Maries
AU  - van der Pol, Edwin
AU  - Van Gassen, Sofie
AU  - Van Isterdael, Gert
AU  - van Lier, René A.W.
AU  - Veldhoen, Marc
AU  - Vento-Asturias, Salvador
AU  - Vieira, Paulo
AU  - Voehringer, David
AU  - Volk, Hans-Dieter
AU  - von Borstel, Anouk
AU  - von Volkmann, Konrad
AU  - Waisman, Ari
AU  - Walker, Rachael V.
AU  - Wallace, Paul K.
AU  - Wang, Sa A.
AU  - Wang, Xin M.
AU  - Ward, Michael D.
AU  - Ward-Hartstonge, Kirsten A
AU  - Warnatz, Klaus
AU  - Warnes, Gary
AU  - Warth, Sarah
AU  - Waskow, Claudia
AU  - Watson, James V.
AU  - Watzl, Carsten
AU  - Wegener, Leonie
AU  - Weisenburger, Thomas
AU  - Wiedemann, Annika
AU  - Wienands, Jürgen
AU  - Wilharm, Anneke
AU  - Wilkinson, Robert John
AU  - Willimsky, Gerald
AU  - Wing, James B.
AU  - Winkelmann, Rieke
AU  - Winkler, Thomas H.
AU  - Wirz, Oliver F.
AU  - Wong, Alicia
AU  - Wurst, Peter
AU  - Yang, Jennie H. M.
AU  - Yang, Juhao
AU  - Yazdanbakhsh, Maria
AU  - Yu, Liping
AU  - Yue, Alice
AU  - Zhang, Hanlin
AU  - Zhao, Yi
AU  - Ziegler, Susanne Maria
AU  - Zielinski, Christina
AU  - Zimmermann, Jakob
AU  - Zychlinsky, Arturo
TI  - Guidelines for the use of flow cytometry and cell sorting in immunological studies (second edition)
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 10
SN  - 9781119971399
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201970107
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201970107
SP  - 1457
EP  - 1973
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract These guidelines are a consensus work of a considerable number of members of the immunology and flow cytometry community. They provide the theory and key practical aspects of flow cytometry enabling immunologists to avoid the common errors that often undermine immunological data. Notably, there are comprehensive sections of all major immune cell types with helpful Tables detailing phenotypes in murine and human cells. The latest flow cytometry techniques and applications are also described, featuring examples of the data that can be generated and, importantly, how the data can be analysed. Furthermore, there are sections detailing tips, tricks and pitfalls to avoid, all written and peer-reviewed by leading experts in the field, making this an essential research companion.
ER  - 

AU  - Bridgen, Anne
C7  - pp. 350-374
TI  - Summary and Perspectives
SN  - 9780470979655
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118405338.ch12
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118405338.ch12
SP  - 350-374
KW  - summary and perspectives
KW  - nine RNA viruses in depth, using reverse genetics
KW  - NCR role, using minigenome systems
KW  - gene rearrangement within non-segmented genome VSV
KW  - reverse genetics, genes for viral proteins modified/deleted
KW  - virus–host interactions at global level
KW  - siRNA, miRNA, next generation and proteomic in virus–host interactions
KW  - reverse genetics, in generating new virus vaccines
KW  - viruses with altered segment number, challenging specific virus nature
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction Analysis of the role of specific non-coding sequence motifs involved in replication, transcription, polyadenylation and packaging Analysis of the roles of viral proteins Analysis of virus?host interactions at a global level Understanding the basis of pathogenicity Real-time virus imaging in vitro and in vivo Structure-function analysis of viruses and viral domains Vaccine generation Drug development Gene delivery and knock-out in plant cells including virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) Gene delivery in arthropod and mammalian cells Development of oncolytic virus and adaptation to this purpose Personal highlights and future directions References
ER  - 
