
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Matthews, Jacob H
AU  - Morley, Gabriella L
AU  - Crossley, Eleanor
AU  - Bhanderi, Shivam
TI  - Teaching leadership: the medical student society model
JO  - The Clinical Teacher
JA  - Clin Teach
VL  - 15
IS  - 2
SN  - 1743-4971
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tct.12649
DO  - doi:10.1111/tct.12649
SP  - 145
EP  - 150
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary Background All health care professionals in the UK are expected to have the medical leadership and management (MLM) skills necessary for improving patient care, as stipulated by the UK General Medical Council (GMC). Context Newly graduated doctors reported insufficient knowledge about leadership and quality improvement skills, despite all UK medical schools reporting that MLM is taught within their curriculum. Innovation A medical student society organised a series of extracurricular educational events focusing on leadership topics. The society recognised that the events needed to be useful and interesting to attract audiences. Therefore, clinical leaders in exciting fields were invited to talk about their experiences and case studies of personal leadership challenges. The emphasis on personal stories, from respected leaders, was a deliberate strategy to attract students and enhance learning. Evaluation data were collected from the audiences to improve the quality of the events and to support a business case for an intercalated degree in MLM. Implications When leadership and management concepts are taught through personal stories, students find it interesting and are prepared to give up their leisure time to engage with the subject. Students appear to recognise the importance of MLM knowledge to their future careers, and are able to organise their own, and their peers?, learning and development. Organising these events and collecting feedback can provide students with opportunities to practise leadership, management and quality improvement skills. These extracurricular events, delivered through a student society, allow for subjects to be discussed in more depth and can complement an already crowded undergraduate curriculum. Newly graduated doctors reported insufficient knowledge about leadership and quality improvement skills
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yu, I.T.
AU  - Fung, M.
TI  - Kikuchi-Fujimoto’s Disease with Skin Manifestations
JO  - Journal of Cutaneous Pathology
VL  - 32
IS  - 1
SN  - 0303-6987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320ib.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320ib.x
SP  - 123
EP  - 123
PY  - 2005
AB  - A fourteen-year-old female presented with persistent fever, abdominal pain, splenomegaly and multiple intra-abdominal lymphadenopathies. She underwent an exploratory laparotomy. Biopsies of the mesenteric lymph nodes revealed necrotizing histiocytic lymphadenitis, characterized by para-cortical fibrinous necrosis with karyorrhectic debris and histiocytic palisading, and paucity of the polymorphic neutrophils. She also developed concurrent skin lesions with scattered small non-itching vesicles and blisters over her back and lower legs. A punch biopsy revealed vacuolar interface changes, sub-epidermal blister formation, mild superficial perivascular infiltration, and follicle necrosis. Karyorrhectic debris and CD68-positive cells are noted around the follicle. A direct immunofluorescent study was negative for complement or immunoglobulin depositions. The patient was diagnosed as Kikuchi-Fujimoto?s disease, or necrotizing histiocytic lymphadenitis, a benign self-limited lymph node disorder most commonly occurred in young females. Patients with Kikuchi?s disease are typically presented with isolated cervical lymphadenopathy with or without accompanying fever. Multiple lymph node involvement, splenomegaly and/or cutaneous lesions are rare occurrences. The present patient experienced a severe inflammatory response syndrome manifested by respiratory failure, pancytopenia, and disseminated intravascular coagulopathy. She recovered completely after two weeks of intensive medical treatment. She has had no respiratory symptoms, residual lymphadenopathies or documented skin lesions in her follow-up three months after discharge.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Babl, Franz E
AU  - Oakley, Ed
AU  - Young, Simon
TI  - Developing academic paediatric emergency medicine in Australia and New Zealand
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 23
IS  - 1
SN  - 1742-6731
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-6723.2010.01392.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1742-6723.2010.01392.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 3
PY  - 2011
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pierce, Heather
AU  - Perry, Lin
AU  - Gallagher, Robyn
AU  - Chiarelli, Pauline
TI  - Pelvic floor health: a concept analysis
JO  - Journal of Advanced Nursing
JA  - J Adv Nurs
VL  - 71
IS  - 5
SN  - 0309-2402
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jan.12628
DO  - doi:10.1111/jan.12628
SP  - 991
EP  - 1004
KW  - communication
KW  - concept analysis
KW  - continence
KW  - health promotion
KW  - midwifery
KW  - multi-professional practice
KW  - nursing
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Aim To report an analysis of the concept ?pelvic floor health?. Background ?Pelvic floor health? is a term used by multiple healthcare disciplines, yet as a concept is not well defined. Design Rodger's evolutionary view was used to guide this analysis. Data sources Academic literature databases and public domain websites viewed via the Internet search engine Google. Review methods Literature in English, published 1946?July 2014 was reviewed. Websites were accessed in May 2014, then analysed of presentation for relevance and content until data saturation. Thematic analysis identified attributes, antecedents and consequences of the concept. Results Based on the defining attributes identified in the analysis, a contemporary definition is offered. ?Pelvic floor health? is the physical and functional integrity of the pelvic floor unit through the life stages of an individual (male or female), permitting an optimal quality of life through its multifunctional role, where the individual possesses or has access to knowledge, which empowers the ability to prevent or manage dysfunction. Conclusion This analysis provides a definition of ?pelvic floor health? that is based on a current shared meaning and distinguishes the term from medical and lay terms in a complex, multifaceted and often under-reported area of healthcare knowledge. This definition provides a basis for theory development in future research, by focusing on health rather than disorders or dysfunction. Further development of the meaning is required in an individual's social context, to ensure a contemporaneous understanding in a dynamic system of healthcare provision.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 286-290
TI  - Investigations
SN  - 9781119244035
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119578055.ch55
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119578055.ch55
SP  - 286-290
KW  - ankylosing spondylitis
KW  - blood tests
KW  - creaky bones
KW  - radiographs
KW  - rheumatoid arthritism
KW  - systemic autoimmune rheumatic diseases
KW  - systemic lupus erythematosis
PY  - 2015
AB  - Summary This chapter focuses on the interpretation of radiographs and blood tests from a rheumatological perspective. Multi-system disease implies concurrent signs and symptoms in multiple organ systems. Its identification is often followed by tests to exclude infections and malignancy since their treatment and prognosis varies. The diagnostic pathway then goes down the route of systemic autoimmune rheumatic diseases (SARDs). SARDs include conditions like rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and connective tissue diseases like systemic lupus erythematosis, mixed connective tissue disease, Sjogren's syndrome, systemic sclerosis, anti-nuclear cytoplasmic antibody associated vasculitides and so on. This diagnosis often involves treatment with potent immunosuppressive drugs which, if an infection has not been excluded can cause serious harm. Focusing on the bones, one will have to look for evidence of demineralisation, erosions, joint space narrowing and new bone formation, for example osteophytes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cossarizza, Andrea
AU  - Chang, Hyun-Dong
AU  - Radbruch, Andreas
AU  - Acs, Andreas
AU  - Adam, Dieter
AU  - Adam-Klages, Sabine
AU  - Agace, William W.
AU  - Aghaeepour, Nima
AU  - Akdis, Mübeccel
AU  - Allez, Matthieu
AU  - Almeida, Larissa Nogueira
AU  - Alvisi, Giorgia
AU  - Anderson, Graham
AU  - Andrä, Immanuel
AU  - Annunziato, Francesco
AU  - Anselmo, Achille
AU  - Bacher, Petra
AU  - Baldari, Cosima T.
AU  - Bari, Sudipto
AU  - Barnaba, Vincenzo
AU  - Barros-Martins, Joana
AU  - Battistini, Luca
AU  - Bauer, Wolfgang
AU  - Baumgart, Sabine
AU  - Baumgarth, Nicole
AU  - Baumjohann, Dirk
AU  - Baying, Bianka
AU  - Bebawy, Mary
AU  - Becher, Burkhard
AU  - Beisker, Wolfgang
AU  - Benes, Vladimir
AU  - Beyaert, Rudi
AU  - Blanco, Alfonso
AU  - Boardman, Dominic A.
AU  - Bogdan, Christian
AU  - Borger, Jessica G.
AU  - Borsellino, Giovanna
AU  - Boulais, Philip E.
AU  - Bradford, Jolene A.
AU  - Brenner, Dirk
AU  - Brinkman, Ryan R.
AU  - Brooks, Anna E. S.
AU  - Busch, Dirk H.
AU  - Büscher, Martin
AU  - Bushnell, Timothy P.
AU  - Calzetti, Federica
AU  - Cameron, Garth
AU  - Cammarata, Ilenia
AU  - Cao, Xuetao
AU  - Cardell, Susanna L.
AU  - Casola, Stefano
AU  - Cassatella, Marco A.
AU  - Cavani, Andrea
AU  - Celada, Antonio
AU  - Chatenoud, Lucienne
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Pratip K.
AU  - Chow, Sue
AU  - Christakou, Eleni
AU  - Čičin-Šain, Luka
AU  - Clerici, Mario
AU  - Colombo, Federico S.
AU  - Cook, Laura
AU  - Cooke, Anne
AU  - Cooper, Andrea M.
AU  - Corbett, Alexandra J.
AU  - Cosma, Antonio
AU  - Cosmi, Lorenzo
AU  - Coulie, Pierre G.
AU  - Cumano, Ana
AU  - Cvetkovic, Ljiljana
AU  - Dang, Van Duc
AU  - Dang-Heine, Chantip
AU  - Davey, Martin S.
AU  - Davies, Derek
AU  - De Biasi, Sara
AU  - Del Zotto, Genny
AU  - Dela Cruz, Gelo Victoriano
AU  - Delacher, Michael
AU  - Della Bella, Silvia
AU  - Dellabona, Paolo
AU  - Deniz, Günnur
AU  - Dessing, Mark
AU  - Di Santo, James P.
AU  - Diefenbach, Andreas
AU  - Dieli, Francesco
AU  - Dolf, Andreas
AU  - Dörner, Thomas
AU  - Dress, Regine J.
AU  - Dudziak, Diana
AU  - Dustin, Michael
AU  - Dutertre, Charles-Antoine
AU  - Ebner, Friederike
AU  - Eckle, Sidonia B. G.
AU  - Edinger, Matthias
AU  - Eede, Pascale
AU  - Ehrhardt, Götz R.A.
AU  - Eich, Marcus
AU  - Engel, Pablo
AU  - Engelhardt, Britta
AU  - Erdei, Anna
AU  - Esser, Charlotte
AU  - Everts, Bart
AU  - Evrard, Maximilien
AU  - Falk, Christine S.
AU  - Fehniger, Todd A.
AU  - Felipo-Benavent, Mar
AU  - Ferry, Helen
AU  - Feuerer, Markus
AU  - Filby, Andrew
AU  - Filkor, Kata
AU  - Fillatreau, Simon
AU  - Follo, Marie
AU  - Förster, Irmgard
AU  - Foster, John
AU  - Foulds, Gemma A.
AU  - Frehse, Britta
AU  - Frenette, Paul S.
AU  - Frischbutter, Stefan
AU  - Fritzsche, Wolfgang
AU  - Galbraith, David W.
AU  - Gangaev, Anastasia
AU  - Garbi, Natalio
AU  - Gaudilliere, Brice
AU  - Gazzinelli, Ricardo T.
AU  - Geginat, Jens
AU  - Gerner, Wilhelm
AU  - Gherardin, Nicholas A.
AU  - Ghoreschi, Kamran
AU  - Gibellini, Lara
AU  - Ginhoux, Florent
AU  - Goda, Keisuke
AU  - Godfrey, Dale I.
AU  - Goettlinger, Christoph
AU  - González-Navajas, Jose M.
AU  - Goodyear, Carl S.
AU  - Gori, Andrea
AU  - Grogan, Jane L.
AU  - Grummitt, Daryl
AU  - Grützkau, Andreas
AU  - Haftmann, Claudia
AU  - Hahn, Jonas
AU  - Hammad, Hamida
AU  - Hämmerling, Günter
AU  - Hansmann, Leo
AU  - Hansson, Goran
AU  - Harpur, Christopher M.
AU  - Hartmann, Susanne
AU  - Hauser, Andrea
AU  - Hauser, Anja E.
AU  - Haviland, David L.
AU  - Hedley, David
AU  - Hernández, Daniela C.
AU  - Herrera, Guadalupe
AU  - Herrmann, Martin
AU  - Hess, Christoph
AU  - Höfer, Thomas
AU  - Hoffmann, Petra
AU  - Hogquist, Kristin
AU  - Holland, Tristan
AU  - Höllt, Thomas
AU  - Holmdahl, Rikard
AU  - Hombrink, Pleun
AU  - Houston, Jessica P.
AU  - Hoyer, Bimba F.
AU  - Huang, Bo
AU  - Huang, Fang-Ping
AU  - Huber, Johanna E.
AU  - Huehn, Jochen
AU  - Hundemer, Michael
AU  - Hunter, Christopher A.
AU  - Hwang, William Y. K.
AU  - Iannone, Anna
AU  - Ingelfinger, Florian
AU  - Ivison, Sabine M
AU  - Jäck, Hans-Martin
AU  - Jani, Peter K.
AU  - Jávega, Beatriz
AU  - Jonjic, Stipan
AU  - Kaiser, Toralf
AU  - Kalina, Tomas
AU  - Kamradt, Thomas
AU  - Kaufmann, Stefan H. E.
AU  - Keller, Baerbel
AU  - Ketelaars, Steven L. C.
AU  - Khalilnezhad, Ahad
AU  - Khan, Srijit
AU  - Kisielow, Jan
AU  - Klenerman, Paul
AU  - Knopf, Jasmin
AU  - Koay, Hui-Fern
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Kolls, Jay K.
AU  - Kong, Wan Ting
AU  - Kopf, Manfred
AU  - Korn, Thomas
AU  - Kriegsmann, Katharina
AU  - Kristyanto, Hendy
AU  - Kroneis, Thomas
AU  - Krueger, Andreas
AU  - Kühne, Jenny
AU  - Kukat, Christian
AU  - Kunkel, Désirée
AU  - Kunze-Schumacher, Heike
AU  - Kurosaki, Tomohiro
AU  - Kurts, Christian
AU  - Kvistborg, Pia
AU  - Kwok, Immanuel
AU  - Landry, Jonathan
AU  - Lantz, Olivier
AU  - Lanuti, Paola
AU  - LaRosa, Francesca
AU  - Lehuen, Agnès
AU  - LeibundGut-Landmann, Salomé
AU  - Leipold, Michael D.
AU  - Leung, Leslie Y.T.
AU  - Levings, Megan K.
AU  - Lino, Andreia C.
AU  - Liotta, Francesco
AU  - Litwin, Virginia
AU  - Liu, Yanling
AU  - Ljunggren, Hans-Gustaf
AU  - Lohoff, Michael
AU  - Lombardi, Giovanna
AU  - Lopez, Lilly
AU  - López-Botet, Miguel
AU  - Lovett-Racke, Amy E.
AU  - Lubberts, Erik
AU  - Luche, Herve
AU  - Ludewig, Burkhard
AU  - Lugli, Enrico
AU  - Lunemann, Sebastian
AU  - Maecker, Holden T.
AU  - Maggi, Laura
AU  - Maguire, Orla
AU  - Mair, Florian
AU  - Mair, Kerstin H.
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
AU  - Manz, Rudolf A.
AU  - Marshall, Aaron J.
AU  - Martínez-Romero, Alicia
AU  - Martrus, Glòria
AU  - Marventano, Ivana
AU  - Maslinski, Wlodzimierz
AU  - Matarese, Giuseppe
AU  - Mattioli, Anna Vittoria
AU  - Maueröder, Christian
AU  - Mazzoni, Alessio
AU  - McCluskey, James
AU  - McGrath, Mairi
AU  - McGuire, Helen M.
AU  - McInnes, Iain B.
AU  - Mei, Henrik E.
AU  - Melchers, Fritz
AU  - Melzer, Susanne
AU  - Mielenz, Dirk
AU  - Miller, Stephen D.
AU  - Mills, Kingston H.G.
AU  - Minderman, Hans
AU  - Mjösberg, Jenny
AU  - Moore, Jonni
AU  - Moran, Barry
AU  - Moretta, Lorenzo
AU  - Mosmann, Tim R.
AU  - Müller, Susann
AU  - Multhoff, Gabriele
AU  - Muñoz, Luis Enrique
AU  - Münz, Christian
AU  - Nakayama, Toshinori
AU  - Nasi, Milena
AU  - Neumann, Katrin
AU  - Ng, Lai Guan
AU  - Niedobitek, Antonia
AU  - Nourshargh, Sussan
AU  - Núñez, Gabriel
AU  - O'Connor, José-Enrique
AU  - Ochel, Aaron
AU  - Oja, Anna
AU  - Ordonez, Diana
AU  - Orfao, Alberto
AU  - Orlowski-Oliver, Eva
AU  - Ouyang, Wenjun
AU  - Oxenius, Annette
AU  - Palankar, Raghavendra
AU  - Panse, Isabel
AU  - Pattanapanyasat, Kovit
AU  - Paulsen, Malte
AU  - Pavlinic, Dinko
AU  - Penter, Livius
AU  - Peterson, Pärt
AU  - Peth, Christian
AU  - Petriz, Jordi
AU  - Piancone, Federica
AU  - Pickl, Winfried F.
AU  - Piconese, Silvia
AU  - Pinti, Marcello
AU  - Pockley, A. Graham
AU  - Podolska, Malgorzata Justyna
AU  - Poon, Zhiyong
AU  - Pracht, Katharina
AU  - Prinz, Immo
AU  - Pucillo, Carlo E. M.
AU  - Quataert, Sally A.
AU  - Quatrini, Linda
AU  - Quinn, Kylie M.
AU  - Radbruch, Helena
AU  - Radstake, Tim R. D. J.
AU  - Rahmig, Susann
AU  - Rahn, Hans-Peter
AU  - Rajwa, Bartek
AU  - Ravichandran, Gevitha
AU  - Raz, Yotam
AU  - Rebhahn, Jonathan A.
AU  - Recktenwald, Diether
AU  - Reimer, Dorothea
AU  - Reis e Sousa, Caetano
AU  - Remmerswaal, Ester B.M.
AU  - Richter, Lisa
AU  - Rico, Laura G.
AU  - Riddell, Andy
AU  - Rieger, Aja M.
AU  - Robinson, J. Paul
AU  - Romagnani, Chiara
AU  - Rubartelli, Anna
AU  - Ruland, Jürgen
AU  - Saalmüller, Armin
AU  - Saeys, Yvan
AU  - Saito, Takashi
AU  - Sakaguchi, Shimon
AU  - Sala-de-Oyanguren, Francisco
AU  - Samstag, Yvonne
AU  - Sanderson, Sharon
AU  - Sandrock, Inga
AU  - Santoni, Angela
AU  - Sanz, Ramon Bellmàs
AU  - Saresella, Marina
AU  - Sautes-Fridman, Catherine
AU  - Sawitzki, Birgit
AU  - Schadt, Linda
AU  - Scheffold, Alexander
AU  - Scherer, Hans U.
AU  - Schiemann, Matthias
AU  - Schildberg, Frank A.
AU  - Schimisky, Esther
AU  - Schlitzer, Andreas
AU  - Schlosser, Josephine
AU  - Schmid, Stephan
AU  - Schmitt, Steffen
AU  - Schober, Kilian
AU  - Schraivogel, Daniel
AU  - Schuh, Wolfgang
AU  - Schüler, Thomas
AU  - Schulte, Reiner
AU  - Schulz, Axel Ronald
AU  - Schulz, Sebastian R.
AU  - Scottá, Cristiano
AU  - Scott-Algara, Daniel
AU  - Sester, David P.
AU  - Shankey, T. Vincent
AU  - Silva-Santos, Bruno
AU  - Simon, Anna Katharina
AU  - Sitnik, Katarzyna M.
AU  - Sozzani, Silvano
AU  - Speiser, Daniel E.
AU  - Spidlen, Josef
AU  - Stahlberg, Anders
AU  - Stall, Alan M.
AU  - Stanley, Natalie
AU  - Stark, Regina
AU  - Stehle, Christina
AU  - Steinmetz, Tobit
AU  - Stockinger, Hannes
AU  - Takahama, Yousuke
AU  - Takeda, Kiyoshi
AU  - Tan, Leonard
AU  - Tárnok, Attila
AU  - Tiegs, Gisa
AU  - Toldi, Gergely
AU  - Tornack, Julia
AU  - Traggiai, Elisabetta
AU  - Trebak, Mohamed
AU  - Tree, Timothy I.M.
AU  - Trotter, Joe
AU  - Trowsdale, John
AU  - Tsoumakidou, Maria
AU  - Ulrich, Henning
AU  - Urbanczyk, Sophia
AU  - van de Veen, Willem
AU  - van den Broek, Maries
AU  - van der Pol, Edwin
AU  - Van Gassen, Sofie
AU  - Van Isterdael, Gert
AU  - van Lier, René A.W.
AU  - Veldhoen, Marc
AU  - Vento-Asturias, Salvador
AU  - Vieira, Paulo
AU  - Voehringer, David
AU  - Volk, Hans-Dieter
AU  - von Borstel, Anouk
AU  - von Volkmann, Konrad
AU  - Waisman, Ari
AU  - Walker, Rachael V.
AU  - Wallace, Paul K.
AU  - Wang, Sa A.
AU  - Wang, Xin M.
AU  - Ward, Michael D.
AU  - Ward-Hartstonge, Kirsten A
AU  - Warnatz, Klaus
AU  - Warnes, Gary
AU  - Warth, Sarah
AU  - Waskow, Claudia
AU  - Watson, James V.
AU  - Watzl, Carsten
AU  - Wegener, Leonie
AU  - Weisenburger, Thomas
AU  - Wiedemann, Annika
AU  - Wienands, Jürgen
AU  - Wilharm, Anneke
AU  - Wilkinson, Robert John
AU  - Willimsky, Gerald
AU  - Wing, James B.
AU  - Winkelmann, Rieke
AU  - Winkler, Thomas H.
AU  - Wirz, Oliver F.
AU  - Wong, Alicia
AU  - Wurst, Peter
AU  - Yang, Jennie H. M.
AU  - Yang, Juhao
AU  - Yazdanbakhsh, Maria
AU  - Yu, Liping
AU  - Yue, Alice
AU  - Zhang, Hanlin
AU  - Zhao, Yi
AU  - Ziegler, Susanne Maria
AU  - Zielinski, Christina
AU  - Zimmermann, Jakob
AU  - Zychlinsky, Arturo
TI  - Guidelines for the use of flow cytometry and cell sorting in immunological studies (second edition)
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 10
SN  - 9781119244035
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201970107
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201970107
SP  - 1457
EP  - 1973
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract These guidelines are a consensus work of a considerable number of members of the immunology and flow cytometry community. They provide the theory and key practical aspects of flow cytometry enabling immunologists to avoid the common errors that often undermine immunological data. Notably, there are comprehensive sections of all major immune cell types with helpful Tables detailing phenotypes in murine and human cells. The latest flow cytometry techniques and applications are also described, featuring examples of the data that can be generated and, importantly, how the data can be analysed. Furthermore, there are sections detailing tips, tricks and pitfalls to avoid, all written and peer-reviewed by leading experts in the field, making this an essential research companion.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 971-1053
TI  - Other Bacterial Diseases
SN  - 9780470958995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119421481.ch23
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119421481.ch23
SP  - 971-1053
KW  - avian intestinal spirochetosis
KW  - bacterial diseases
KW  -                Erysipelas
KW  - poultry production
KW  -                Staphylococcus
KW  -                Streptococcus
KW  - tuberculosis
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary This chapter includes a collection of miscellaneous organisms that have caused disease in poultry or are a public health concern. The less common pathogens implicated in poultry loss included are Staphylococcosis, Streptococcus and Enterococcus, Erysipelas, avian intestinal spirochetosis, tuberculosis. Disease syndromes included in the chapter include beak necrosis, venereal disease of geese, and liver granulomas, but are not identified to a specific organism responsible because of the multifactorial nature of the disease. Staphylococcosis is diagnosed by culturing suspected clinical material including exudate from joints, yolk material, and stab swabs of internal organs. Staphylococcosis can resemble infection with Escherichia coli, Pasteurella multocida, Salmonella gallinarum, Mycoplasma synoviae, reoviruses, or any other infection of bones or joints that is hatchery-related, associated with mechanical trauma, or causes septicemia. Prevention and control of Enterococcus infections require reducing stress and preventing immunosuppressive diseases and conditions. Proper cleaning and disinfection can reduce environmental enterococcal resident flora to minimize external exposure.
ER  - 

AU  - Allen, Matthew
AU  - Mann, Kenneth
C7  - pp. 131-149
TI  - Biomechanical Considerations in Total Knee Replacement
SN  - 9780470959619
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118704776.ch9
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118704776.ch9
SP  - 131-149
KW  - Biomechanics
KW  - Femorotibial articulation
KW  - Gait analysis and kinematics
KW  - Implant bone/cement-bone interface
KW  - Ligaments
KW  - Mechanical vs. anatomical axes
KW  - Periprosthetic tissues
KW  - Stiftle joint
KW  - Stress shielding
KW  - Total knee replacement (TKR) implants
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Gait Analysis and Kinematics of the Stifle Joint Stifle Joint Loading Mechanical Versus Anatomical Axes Role of Ligaments Stifle Joint Contact Pressures Design Considerations for TKR implants Mechanical Factors at the Femorotibial Articulation Mechanical Factors at the Implant-Bone or Cement-Bone Interface Mechanical Factors in Periprosthetic Tissues Kinematics After TKR Summary and Conclusions Endnote References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Haas, M.
AU  - Sis, B.
AU  - Racusen, L. C.
AU  - Solez, K.
AU  - Glotz, D.
AU  - Colvin, R. B.
AU  - Castro, M. C. R.
AU  - David, D. S. R.
AU  - David-Neto, E.
AU  - Bagnasco, S. M.
AU  - Cendales, L. C.
AU  - Cornell, L. D.
AU  - Demetris, A. J.
AU  - Drachenberg, C. B.
AU  - Farver, C. F.
AU  - Farris III, A. B.
AU  - Gibson, I. W.
AU  - Kraus, E.
AU  - Liapis, H.
AU  - Loupy, A.
AU  - Nickeleit, V.
AU  - Randhawa, P.
AU  - Rodriguez, E. R.
AU  - Rush, D.
AU  - Smith, R. N.
AU  - Tan, C. D.
AU  - Wallace, W. D.
AU  - Mengel, M.
AU  - as the Banff meeting report writing committee
TI  - Banff 2013 Meeting Report: Inclusion of C4d-Negative Antibody-Mediated Rejection and Antibody-Associated Arterial Lesions
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 14
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780470959619
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.12590
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.12590
SP  - 272
EP  - 283
KW  - Acute allograft rejection
KW  - antibody-mediated rejection
KW  - Banff schema
KW  - cardiac allograft
KW  - chronic allograft rejection
KW  - complement C4d
KW  - composite tissue allograft
KW  - donor-specific antibodies
KW  - liver allograft
KW  - lung transplantation
KW  - pancreas allograft
KW  - renal transplantation
KW  - transplant biopsy
KW  - transplant glomerulopathy
KW  - transplant pathology
PY  - 2014
AB  - The 12th Banff Conference on Allograft Pathology was held in Comandatuba, Brazil, from August 19?23, 2013, and was preceded by a 2-day Latin American Symposium on Transplant Immunobiology and Immunopathology. The meeting was highlighted by the presentation of the findings of several working groups formed at the 2009 and 2011 Banff meetings to: (1) establish consensus criteria for diagnosing antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) in the presence and absence of detectable C4d deposition; (2) develop consensus definitions and thresholds for glomerulitis (g score) and chronic glomerulopathy (cg score), associated with improved inter-observer agreement and correlation with clinical, molecular and serological data; (3) determine whether isolated lesions of intimal arteritis (?isolated v?) represent acute rejection similar to intimal arteritis in the presence of tubulointerstitial inflammation; (4) compare different methodologies for evaluating interstitial fibrosis and for performing/evaluating implantation biopsies of renal allografts with regard to reproducibility and prediction of subsequent graft function; and (5) define clinically and prognostically significant morphologic criteria for subclassifying polyoma virus nephropathy. The key outcome of the 2013 conference is defining criteria for diagnosis of C4d-negative ABMR and respective modification of the Banff classification. In addition, three new Banff Working Groups were initiated.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Umesh Rudrapatna, S.
AU  - Hamming, Arend M.
AU  - Wermer, Marieke J. H.
AU  - van der Toorn, Annette
AU  - Dijkhuizen, Rick M.
C8  - NBM-13-0283.R2
TI  - Measurement of distinctive features of cortical spreading depolarizations with different MRI contrasts
JO  - NMR in Biomedicine
JA  - NMR Biomed.
VL  - 28
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470959619
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/nbm.3288
DO  - doi:10.1002/nbm.3288
SP  - 591
EP  - 600
KW  - Other functional MRI methods
KW  - Functional MRI (fMRI) Methods
KW  - Methods and Engineering, fMRI signal characteristics
KW  - Functional MRI (fMRI) Methods
KW  - Methods and Engineering, Neurological
KW  - Applications, Spreading Depolarization, SSFP, Combined ADC and T2
PY  - 2015
AB  - Growing clinical evidence suggests critical involvement of spreading depolarizations (SDs) in the pathophysiology of neurological disorders such as migraine and stroke. MRI provides powerful tools to detect and assess co-occurring cerebral hemodynamic and cellular changes during SDs. This study reports the feasibility and advantages of two MRI scans, based on balanced steady-state free precession (b-SSFP) and diffusion-weighted multi-spin-echo (DT2), heretofore unexplored for monitoring SDs. These were compared with gradient-echo MRI. SDs were induced by KCl application in rat brain. Known for high SNR, the T2- and T1-based b-SSFP contrast was hypothesized to provide higher spatiotemporal specificity than -based gradient-echo scanning. DT2 scanning was designed to provide simultaneous T2 and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) measurements, thus enabling combined quantitative assessment of hemodynamic and cellular changes during SDs. Procedures were developed to automate identification of SD-induced responses in all the scans. These responses were analyzed to determine detection sensitivity and temporal characteristics of signals from each scanning method. Cluster analysis was performed to elucidate unique temporal patterns for each contrast. All scans allowed detection of SD-induced responses. b-SSFP scans showed significantly larger relative intensity changes, narrower peak widths and greater spatial specificity compared with gradient-echo MRI. SD-induced effects on ADC, calculated from DT2 scans, showed the most pronounced signal changes, displaying about 20% decrease, as against 10?15% signal increases observed with b-SSFP and gradient-echo scanning. Cluster analysis revealed additional temporal sub-patterns, such as an initial dip on gradient-echo scans and temporally shifted T2 and proton density changes in DT2 data. To summarize, b-SSFP and DT2 scanning provide distinct information on SDs compared with gradient-echo MRI. DT2 scanning, with its potential to simultaneously provide cellular and hemodynamic information, can offer unique information on the inter-relationship between these processes in pathologic brain, which may improve monitoring of spreading depolarizations in (pre)clinical settings. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Qiu, Jingxin
AU  - Hu, Xiaoming
AU  - Nesic, Olivera
AU  - Grafe, Marjorie R.
AU  - Rassin, David K.
AU  - Wood, Thomas G.
AU  - Perez-Polo, J. Regino
TI  - Effects of NF-κB oligonucleotide “Decoys” on gene expression in P7 rat hippocampus after hypoxia/ischemia
JO  - Journal of Neuroscience Research
JA  - J. Neurosci. Res.
VL  - 77
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470959619
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jnr.20156
DO  - doi:10.1002/jnr.20156
SP  - 108
EP  - 118
KW  - hypoxia/ischemia
KW  - decoy
KW  - NF-κB
KW  - Bcl-xL, inflammation
PY  - 2004
AB  - Abstract ?Decoy? oligonucleotides can be used as gene-specific nuclear factor (NF-?B) inhibitors to regulate gene expression. We applied two different decoy oligonucleotides that contained the NF-?B binding consensus sequences present in the immunoglobulin G (IgG)-?B and Bcl-x promoter into 7-day-old (P7) rat lateral ventricles before hypoxia/ischemia (HI) and compared their effects on gene expression in hippocampi to saline-treated, scrambled decoy-treated, or untreated hippocampi exposed to HI. Left hippocampi were collected at 12 hr after HI. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) showed that the two decoy treatments had different effects on NF-?B binding to the IgG-?B and Bcl-x promoter-specific consensus sequences, respectively. We assessed the decoys' effects on gene expression 12 hr after HI using ribonuclease protection assays (RPAs) and Affymetrix DNA microarrays. RPAs showed that both decoys significantly decreased interleukin (IL)-1α mRNA levels but had no impact on IL-1?, IL-6, and IL-10 mRNA levels. IgG-?B decoys significantly decreased tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and TNF-? mRNA levels compared to minimal changes after treatment with Bcl-x decoys. DNA microarray analyses showed that Bcl-x decoy treatment significantly decreased Bcl-xL mRNA levels. The decreased Bcl-xL mRNA levels after Bcl-x decoy treatment was confirmed by RPA analysis. DNA microarray data also indicated that several other genes were affected by both decoys. Our results suggest that different NF-?B decoy treatments could differentially regulate transcriptional responses to central nervous system trauma. Careful design of decoy sequences, however, is essential to acquire selective effects on cell death outcome. ? 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Physical Therapy (92)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470959619
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-92.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-92.x
SP  - 114
EP  - 115
PY  - 2001
AB  - Jeanine Yip Menck, Susan Mais Requejo, Kornelia Kulig: Thoracic spine dysfunction in upper extremity complex regional pain syndrome type 1. (University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA) J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2000;30:401?409. The objective of this case study was to demonstrate the importance of assessment and treatment of the thoracic spine in the management of a patient with signs and symptoms of upper extremity complex regional pain syndrome type I. The patient was a 38-year-old woman who suffered a traumatic injury to her left hand. Five months after the injury, she presented with severe pain, immobility of the left arm, and associated dystrophic changes. She was unable to work and needed help in some activities of daily living. The patient was treated for 3 months in 36 visits. Initial treatment consisted of cutaneous desensitization, edema management, and gentle therapeutic exercises. However, further examination indicated hypomobility and hypersensitivity of the upper thoracic spine. Joint manipulation of the T3 and T4 segments was implemented. The patient's status was monitored. Immediately after the vertebral manipulation, there was significant increase in the left hand's skin temperature and a decrease in hyperhydrosis as measured by palpation. Shoulder range of motion increased from 135º to 175° and the patient reported reduced pain. The decrease in the patient's dystrophic and allodynic symptoms permitted further progress in functional reeducation. The patient was discharged with full return to independence and initiation of a vocational training program. Conclude that the assessment and treatment of the thoracic spine should be considered in patients with upper extremity complex regional pain syndrome type I. Comment by Karen Crawford, RPT. This is a study demonstrating the importance of assessment of the thoracic spine to manage patients with signs and symptoms of upper extremity complex regional pain syndrome type I (CRPS-I). The patient was a 38-year-old female with traumatic injury to the left hand. The purpose of this study is to determine the relation between distal symptoms of CRPS-I and the thoracic spine and to describe the use of thoracic spine manipulation in the management of patients with CRPS-I in the upper extremity. CRPS-I in the upper extremity often exhibits postural deviations associated with protective positioning of the arm. It emanates as trunk motion during upper activities and may present with decreased thoracic intervertebral mobility. This study believes that the evaluation and treatment in areas proximal to a patient's symptoms in CRPS-I may be necessary. Hypomobility secondary to abnormal posturing and anatomical proximity of the sympathetic ganglions to the thoracic spine may contribute to the link between upper quadrant CRPS-I and thoracic joint dysfunction. In the study, a 38-year-old, left-hand dominant, female who sustained trauma to her left wrist and hand while at work was seen in physical therapy for a total of 36 visits. Initial treatment consisted of desensitization, edema management, and general therapeutic exercises. Further examination indicated hypomobility and hypersensitivity of the upper thoracic spine. At that time, joint manipulation of T3 and T4 segments was implemented. The patient's status was monitored and range of motion, strength, temperature, and skin moisture were measured. The patient reported minimal changes in her status, and 1 month into treatments, she hit her left hand on a door and consequently discontinued therapy because of increased pain. Five months after the initial injury, patient was reevaluated. She then received physical therapy 3 times per week for 12 weeks and was discharged with significant improved functional status. At the initial examination, the diagnosis of CRPS-I was based on the IASP Committee on Taxonomy. The initial treatment objective was pain management and edema control. The long-term goal was return to a functional status. Initial treatment consisted of gentle active and passive wrist and finger range of motion and tubagrip for edema management. A home program desensitization was implemented. The patient's active participation in therapy was limited secondary to her willingness to move her left arm. Treatment 2 included evaluation and manipulation of the upper thoracic spine. Her clinician used her manipulating hand as a fulcrum by placing it under the supine patient at the level of thoracic joint dysfunction. A thrust was delivered through the patient's folded arms as she exhaled and there as an audible click. There was an immediate normalization of skin temperature, color, as well as significantly decreased allodynic response to light touch along the left arm and the left upper thoracic vertebral column. Segmental thoracic mobility was immediately improved and there was immediate increase in shoulder flexion after this treatment. This reduction of signs and symptoms of CRPS-I made it possible to proceed with functional rehabilitation. Manipulation of the thoracic spine may have resulted in improvements in distal upper extremity pain, skin color, and temperature in a patient with CRPS-I. One explanation is that disuse of the arm and abnormal posturing may contribute to thoracic hypomobility. The anatomic proximity of the sympathetic chain to the dysfunctional thoracic joints may predispose the ganglions to mechanical pressure. Therefore, it is concluded that the evaluation and treatment of areas proximal to the patient's symptoms are necessary. It is difficult to identify the mechanism responsible for changing distal symptoms after thoracic manipulation. The immediate increase in shoulder flexion after manipulation is likely due to mechanical change in the tissue. In conclusion, this study describes a link between the thoracic spine and distal symptoms in patients with CRPS-I. Thoracic joint manipulation appeared to improve spinal mobility, and also appeared to relieve distal and autonomic symptoms. These improvements allowed for functional rehabilitation of the effected arm. Therefore, it is the opinion of the study that the mobility of the thoracic spine should be evaluated for patients with autonomic dysfunction diagnosed with CRPS-I. The research also indicates a need for further research to define the relationship between neurogenic symptoms and musculoskeletal pathology.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cunningham, Paul
AU  - Sammut, Jeremy
TI  - Inadequate acute hospital beds and the limits of primary care and prevention
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emerg Med Australas
VL  - 24
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470959619
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-6723.2012.01601.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1742-6723.2012.01601.x
SP  - 566
EP  - 572
KW  - acute care
KW  - acute hospital bed number
KW  - prevention
KW  - primary care
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Metropolitan Australia is suffering from a serious shortage of acute hospital beds. Simplistic comparisons with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development bed numbers are misleading because of the hybrid Australian public/private hospital system. The unavailability of most private beds for acute emergency cases and urban/rural bed imbalances have not been adequately considered. There is a lack of advocacy for acute bed availability. This attitude permeates government, health professions and the health bureaucracy. Planners, politicians, analysts and the media have adopted false hopes of reducing acute demand by prevention and primary care strategies, vital as these services are to a balanced healthcare system. This paper directly challenges the ideology that says Australia depends too heavily on hospital-based healthcare. Rebuilding the bed base requires recognition of the need for an adequate acute hospital service and strong advocacy for bed-based care in the medical and nursing professionals who should be driving policy. The forces opposing bed-based care are strong and solutions might include legislative definition of bed numbers and availability.
ER  - 

AU  - Lamos, Elizabeth M.
AU  - Younk, Lisa M.
AU  - Davis, Stephen N.
C7  - pp. 506-530
TI  - Hypoglycemia
SN  - 9781119374732
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119374800.ch31
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119374800.ch31
SP  - 506-530
KW  - hypoglycemia
KW  - insulin
KW  - insulinoma
KW  - sulfonylurea type 1 diabetes
KW  - type 2 diabetes
PY  - 2012
AB  - Summary Hypoglycemia is one of the most frequent endocrine emergencies in individuals with diabetes mellitus. However, hypoglycemia in the healthy or non-diabetic individual is rare. This review will focus on the pathophysiology, management, and etiology of hypoglycemia in persons with and without diabetes. Hypoglycemia in persons with diabetes will focus on multiple factors including hypoglycemic unawareness, glucose monitoring, medication management, and comorbidities. Hypoglycemia in the non-diabetic individual can have multiple etiologies and poses a diagnostic challenge. It is important to respond quickly and appropriately to acute hypoglycemia in any individual. Although broad, the etiology of hypoglycemia must include a comprehensive and individualized review of medical, family, social, and pharmacologic patient histories.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reina, Miquel Angel
AU  - De Leon, Oscar A.
AU  - Lopez, Andres
AU  - De Andres, Jose
AU  - Martin, Sara
AU  - Mora, Miquel
TI  - Anesthesia (13)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119374732
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-13.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-13.x
SP  - 88
EP  - 89
PY  - 2001
AB  - An in vitro study of dural lesions produced by 25-gauge Quincke and Whitacre needles evaluated by scanning electron microscopy. (Hospital de Mostoles, Madrid Spain) Reg Anesth Pain Med 2000;25:393?402. This study evaluated the dural lesions produced by Whitacre and Quincke spinal needles in the external and internal surface of the dura mater of the lower spine area in an attempt to gain more insight into the pathophysiology of postdural puncture headaches (PDPH). The T11-L4 dural membranes from 5 fresh (immediately after extraction of organs for transplantation) male patients declared brain dead, ages 23, 46, 48, 55, and 60, were excised by anterior laminectomy. Morphologic orientation of the membrane and normal pH were maintained; 100 punctures at 90-degree angles were done with a new needle each time, 50 with 25-gauge Whitacre and 50 with 25-gauge Quincke needles. Half of the punctures with the Quincke needles were done with the bevel in the parallel direction to the axis of the spinal cord, and the rest with the bevel perpendicular to it. Fixation in solutions of 2.5% glutaraldehyde phosphate buffer, followed by dehydration with acetone, was done 15 min after the punctures. The acetone was removed and the specimens were metallized with carbon followed by gold and inspected under a scanning electron microscope. When the area of the dural lesions found in the external and internal surfaces produced by the 2 types of needles was compared, no significant differences were found. The percentage of lesion closing area with the Quincke needles was 88.3% and 82.7% in the external and internal surfaces, respectively. With the Whitacre needles, the percentage of closing was 86.8% and 84.8% in the epidural and arachnoid surfaces, respectively. There were differences noted in the morphology of the lesions. The Whitacre needles produced coarse lesions with significant destruction in the dura's fibers while the Quincke needles produced a ?U?-shaped lesion (flap) that mimics the opened lid of a tin can, regardless of the tip's direction. Conclude that the needles produced lesions in the dura with different morphology and characteristics. Lesions with the Quincke needles resulted in a clean-cut opening in the dural membrane while the Whitacre needle produced a more traumatic opening with tearing and severe disruption of the collagen fibers. The lower incidence of PDPH seen in the Whitacre needles may be explained, in part, by the inflammatory reaction produced by the tearing of the collagen fibers after dural penetration. The inflammatory reaction may result in a significant edema, which may act as a plug limiting the leakage of the cerebrospinal fluid. Comment by Andrew D. Rosenberg, MD. This is an interesting article that explains why a patient will develop a postdural puncture headache (PDPH) after receiving a spinal with a Quincke needle and not after a Whitacre-type needle. The explanation is based more upon an inflammatory reaction than the direction of the needle cut. The Quincke needle appears to make a sharp cut while the Whitacre needle induced an inflammatory response including edema, which could block off the dura from leaking. It is very interesting that the response seen after the Whitacre needle was utilized occurred as quickly as it did. The article introduces the question as to whether a Quincke needle or a Whitacre needle is associated with more trauma to the dura, and which is better for decreasing the incidence of PDPD.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - NAM, HYUN-SOOK
AU  - MCANULTY, JONATHON F.
AU  - KWAK, HO-HYUN
AU  - YOON, BYUNG-Il
AU  - HYUN, CHANGBAIG
AU  - KIM, WAN-HEE
AU  - WOO, HEUNG-MYONG
TI  - Gingival Overgrowth in Dogs Associated with Clinically Relevant Cyclosporine Blood Levels: Observations in a Canine Renal Transplantation Model
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 37
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119374732
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1532-950X.2008.00373.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1532-950X.2008.00373.x
SP  - 247
EP  - 253
PY  - 2008
AB  - Objective? To investigate the development of gingival hyperplasia in dogs after renal transplantation and administration of microemulsified cyclosporine A (MCsA). Study Design? Experimental study. Animals? Healthy adult mongrel dogs (n=5). Methods? As part of study on renal transplantation, dogs administered MCsA (20?mg/kg/day), azathioprine, and prednisolone to prevent graft rejection were monitored for development of gingival changes. Prednisolone was discontinued after 3 months. MCsA dose was adjusted to maintain whole blood trough concentration of 400?700?ng/mL. Gingival change was evaluated by weekly examination and photodocumentation, and gingival biopsy for histopathology was performed at 28 weeks. Results? One dog was lost because of acute graft rejection. Gingival hyperplasia developed in 3 of 4 dogs. The earliest gingival changes occurred in the interdental papillae at 20 weeks after transplantation. On histopathology, the underlying connective tissue was thickened and contained increase numbers of fibroblasts and inflammatory infiltrates. Conclusions? Long-term immunosuppression with an MCsA-based treatment likely induces substantial gingival hyperplasia when therapeutic, immunosuppressive blood levels of MCsA were maintained for 32 weeks. Clinical Relevance? MCsA is used for immune-mediated diseases and preventing rejection after transplant in dogs. MCsA blood levels, and gingival hyperplasia should be monitored by routine examination of the interdental papilla in dogs administered MCsA for long periods.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - GUTHElL, THOMAS G.
AU  - AVERY, NICHOLAS C.
TI  - Multiple Overt Incest as Family Defense Against Loss
JO  - Family Process
VL  - 16
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119374732
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1545-5300.1977.00105.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1545-5300.1977.00105.x
SP  - 105
EP  - 116
PY  - 1977
AB  - A case report of father-daughter incest is presented that illustrates the way in which overt incest can function as a multi-determined familial defense against separation and loss. The case is further distinguished by: (a) multiple incest and (b) family therapy ? an approach infrequently described in the literature on this problem. The authors have adopted the psychodynamic view that incest expresses the collective psychopathology of all the family members as well as their common adaptational capacities. Specifically, we have attempted to demonstrate that separation anxiety was a shared dread in this family and that incest defended against this painful prospect.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Phelps, Ribert G.
AU  - Wilentz:, Seth
TI  - Neurology (59)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119374732
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-59.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-59.x
SP  - 105
EP  - 105
PY  - 2001
AB  - Reflex sympathetic dystrophy. (Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY) Int J Dermatol 2000;39:481?486. This review aimed to familiarize the dermatologist with the essential features of reflex sympathetic dystrophy. It highlights areas that are most likely to be of interest to the dermatologist. Information regarding diagnosis, pathogenesis theories, and treatment are included. Comment by Enrique Reig, MD. This paper analyses RSD from the point of view of a specialist in dermatology. It addresses in depth the definition of RSD (or the new name, CRPS type I), the symptoms required for adequate diagnosis, some theories to explain this syndrome, and some of the treatments available. It highlights the clinical pictures, which can cause RSD (trauma, ischemia, tumors, infection, neurological and iatrogenic causes), and particularly dermatological syndromes (minor surgery, postherpetic neuralgia, Dupuytren, vasculitis ?). The treatment has a bipolar objective: to relieve pain in order to be able to apply appropriate physical therapy, which will allow recovery of the involved limb. There are more than 60 treatments reported in the literature, suggesting that there is no universal protocol. However, prevention of RSD, and particularly the early onset of treatment are essential for achieving functional and pain relief. To suppress sympathetic hyperactivity, nerve blocks (somatic and sympathetic), intravenous regional blockade with guanethidine or reserpine, alpha blockers (phentolamine), beta blockers (propranolol), and calcitonine can be used. No reference is made to anticonvulsants (gabapentine, topiramate), antidepressants (ie, amitriptyline), intravenous lidocaine, or spinal cord stimulation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Doughty, Heidi
AU  - Chowdhury, Fateha
AU  - on behalf of the National Blood Transfusion Committee Emergency Planning Working Group
TI  - Emergency preparedness, resilience and response guidance for UK hospital transfusion teams
JO  - Transfusion Medicine
JA  - Transfusion Med
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 9781119374732
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tme.12665
DO  - doi:10.1111/tme.12665
KW  - emergency planning
KW  - major incidents
KW  - transfusion
AB  - Abstract Objectives To present Emergency Preparedness, Resilience and Response (EPRR) guidance for Hospital Transfusion Teams on behalf of the National Blood Transfusion Committee emergency planning working group. Background The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 requires healthcare organisations to demonstrate that they can deal with major incidents while maintaining critical services. Recent mass casualty events and the use of transfusion-based resuscitation have highlighted the evolving role of the Hospital Transfusion Team. Methods This multi-disciplinary advice is informed by recent global and national experience, the 2018 NHS England clinical guidelines for Major Incidents, and stakeholder workshops. Guidance Transfusion staff should be familiar with local EPRR plans including casualty type and numbers. Staff should be exercised as part of wider Trust preparation, with documented roles and responsibilities. Transfusion support should be proactive and include blood issue, regulatory compliance and sample handling. Robust LIMS-compatible emergency identification systems are essential to minimise errors. Emergency stock management requires rapid assessment of existing stock and estimated demand before re-ordering. Initial demand should be based on 2 to 4 red blood cells (RBC) per patient admitted. Patients with significant haemorrhage may require further red cells and early haemostatic support. Where ?universal? components are demanded, they should be gender appropriate. Senior staff should lead the response, log and communicate key decisions, and prepare for post-incident recovery. Conclusions Transfusion teams have an important role in ensuring continuity of transfusion support. Teams should develop their EPRR plans based on local plans and national guidance. Emergency preparedness should include post-incident debriefing for ongoing staff support and future service improvement.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Guise, Andy
AU  - Horyniak, Danielle
AU  - Melo, Jason
AU  - McNeil, Ryan
AU  - Werb, Dan
C8  - ADD-17-0127.R2
TI  - The experience of initiating injection drug use and its social context: a qualitative systematic review and thematic synthesis
JO  - Addiction
JA  - Addiction
VL  - 112
IS  - 12
SN  - 9781119374732
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/add.13957
DO  - doi:10.1111/add.13957
SP  - 2098
EP  - 2111
KW  - Drug use
KW  - injection drug use
KW  - injection initiation
KW  - qualitative synthesis
KW  - systematic review
KW  - thematic synthesis
KW  - trajectories
KW  - transitions
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Background and aim Understanding the experience of initiating injection drug use and its social contexts is crucial to inform efforts to prevent transitions into this mode of drug consumption and support harm reduction. We reviewed and synthesized existing qualitative scientific literature systematically to identify the socio-structural contexts for, and experiences of, the initiation of injection drug use. Methods We searched six databases (Medline, Embase, PsychINFO, CINAHL, IBSS and SSCI) systematically, along with a manual search, including key journals and subject experts. Peer-reviewed studies were included if they qualitatively explored experiences of or socio-structural contexts for injection drug use initiation. A thematic synthesis approach was used to identify descriptive and analytical themes throughout studies. Results From 1731 initial results, 41 studies reporting data from 1996 participants were included. We developed eight descriptive themes and two analytical (higher-order) themes. The first analytical theme focused on injecting initiation resulting from a social process enabled and constrained by socio-structural factors: social networks and individual interactions, socialization into drug-using identities and choices enabled and constrained by social context all combine to produce processes of injection initiation. The second analytical theme addressed pathways that explore varying meanings attached to injection initiation and how they link to social context: seeking pleasure, responses to increasing tolerance to drugs, securing belonging and identity and coping with pain and trauma. Conclusions Qualitative research shows that injection drug use initiation has varying and distinct meanings for individuals involved and is a dynamic process shaped by social and structural factors. Interventions should therefore respond to the socio-structural influences on injecting drug use initiation by seeking to modify the contexts for initiation, rather than solely prioritizing the reduction of individual harms through behavior change.
ER  - 
