
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dieter, John Nathan
AU  - Swerdlow, Bernard
TI  - A Replicative Investigation of the Reliability of the MMPI in the Classification of Chronic Headaches
JO  - Headache: The Journal of Head and Face Pain
VL  - 28
IS  - 3
SN  - 0017-8748
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1526-4610.1988.hed2803212.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1526-4610.1988.hed2803212.x
SP  - 212
EP  - 222
PY  - 1988
AB  - SYNOPSISThis study attempts to replicate and synthesize previous headache/MMPI research by investigating scale differences amongst diagnoses and between a control group; re-examining the occurrence of the conversion ?V? pattern; evaluating the Kudrow-Sutkus (1979) classification system; measuring score changes which occur with prognosis; and observing the effect that ?headache items? have on scale score elevations. Several mean scale scores differed from previous studies. A number of these differences were clinically significant. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) (sex [370 males and females] and headache diagnosis) for each scale determined that males had higher L scores; the control group had higher K scores than post trauma, mixed, or vascular patients; each headache diagnosis had higher 1, 2, 3, and 7 scores than the control group (scales 1, 2, and 3 were clinically elevated in only the post trauma and mixed conditions); scale 9 scores varied between conditions; and scale 10 scores were higher for migraine, mixed, cluster, and post trauma patients. Chi-square analysis determined that the conversion ?;V? pattern occurred in a significantly greater degree in headache patients. However, the percentage of occurrence ranged from only 12.50 to 31.03 percent. The Kudrow-Sutkus system correctly diagnosed only 40.08 percent of 90 randomly selected subjects. One-way ANOVA determined that no significant change occurred in group scale scores in 20 headache sufferers who received treatment ranging from a multi-disciplinary hospital program to none at all and whose prognosis ranged from excellent to poor. One-way ANOVA determined that the removal of items which inquire about ?headache symptoms? produced significant reductions on scales 1 and 3.The inability of this study to replicate previous empirical investigations raises questions of the MMPI's reliability as a diagnostic classifier in chronic headache. Certain elevations on the MMPI may be the result of symptom measurement and not psychopathology.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mauermann, Michelle L.
AU  - Scheithauer, Bernd W.
AU  - Spinner, Robert J.
AU  - Amrami, Kimberly K.
AU  - Nance, Christopher S.
AU  - Kline, David G.
AU  - O’Connor, Mary I.
AU  - Dyck, Peter J.
AU  - Engelstad, JaNean
AU  - Dyck, P. James B.
TI  - Inflammatory pseudotumor of nerve: clinicopathological characteristics and a potential therapy
JO  - Journal of the Peripheral Nervous System
VL  - 15
IS  - 3
SN  - 1085-9489
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1529-8027.2010.00273.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1529-8027.2010.00273.x
SP  - 216
EP  - 226
KW  - fibrosis
KW  - inflammation
KW  - mononeuropathy
KW  - peripheral neuropathy
KW  - pseudotumor
PY  - 2010
AB  - We sought to determine the clinical, electrophysiological, neuroimaging, and pathological features of inflammatory pseudotumor of nerve. Five patients were identified. All cases presented with a gradually progressive mononeuropathy with symptoms of weakness, sensory loss, and prominent neuropathic pain. The median duration of symptoms was 7 months (range 3?36 months). Electrophysiological results were in keeping with chronic axonal mononeuropathies with variable findings of active denervation and reinnervation. MRI demonstrated irregular, large masses involving and surrounding nerve with heterogenous signal characteristics on T1- and T2-weighted and post-contrast sequences. Histopathological features of the nerve slightly varied but shared commonalities including chronic inflammatory infiltrates, increased collagen, and increased numbers of microvessels. Axonal degeneration and decreased density of myelinated fibers were also noted. Three patients were treated with weekly courses of intravenous steroids for 3 months. All reported improvement in pain and weakness. Inflammatory pseudotumor of nerve is not a neoplasm and has reactive features of inflammation, increased vascularity, and marked fibrosis. It presents as a progressive axonal mononeuropathy with weakness, sensory loss, and pain that may be episodic. The primary pathophysiology is unknown but the inflammation and response to treatment suggests that there may be an immune component.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Iwenofu, O.H.
AU  - Adelson, D.
AU  - Crowson, A.N.
TI  - A Case of Pseudorheumatoid Nodule Arising in a Previous Site of Squamous Cell Carcinoma.
JO  - Journal of Cutaneous Pathology
VL  - 32
IS  - 1
SN  - 0303-6987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320db.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320db.x
SP  - 94
EP  - 95
PY  - 2005
AB  - The pseudorheumatoid nodule (PRN) is a subcutaneous palisading granuloma characterized by a pattern of interstitial histiocytes surrounding an area of collagen necrobiosis and typically unassociated with rheumatoid arthritis. It is part of the spectrum of palisading granulomatous dermatitidis which includes the rheumatoid nodule, the rheumatic fever nodule, the spirochaete-associated juxtarticular nodes of Lyme disease, granuloma annulare, necrobiosis lipoidica and the palisading granuloma of Churg and Strauss. PRN has previously been associated with surgical trauma and with retained suture material at old surgical sites. We present a case of PRN arising in a previous biopsy site of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). A 48-year-old woman with no history of rheumatoid arthritis or a granulomatous diathesis underwent biopsy of a keratotic left forearm skin lesion on 10/14/03 that showed invasive SCC. She had a re-excision of the the same site on 11/22/03 that grossly showed a central scar. Histology revealed a scar at the site of a recent biopsy with no residual SCC, in the base of which was an area of necrosis palisaded by histiocytes. No residual suture or other polarizable foreign material was identified. Pancytokeratin and Epithelial Membrane Antigen immunostains were negative. The morphology is considered prototypic for PRN.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gruenstein, Daniel H.
AU  - Bass, John L.
TI  - Experimental evaluation of a new articulated Amplatzer® ductal occluder device without fabric
JO  - Catheterization and Cardiovascular Interventions
JA  - Cathet. Cardiovasc. Intervent.
VL  - 74
IS  - 3
SN  - 1522-1946
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ccd.22059
DO  - doi:10.1002/ccd.22059
SP  - 482
EP  - 487
KW  - pediatric interventions
KW  - congenital heart disease in adults
KW  - embolization
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Objectives: To describe a new percutaneous PDA device. Background: The ADO II was developed by AGA Medical for closure of small-moderate sized PDAs via a small delivery catheter from an antegrade or retrograde catheter approach. The objective of this study was to evaluate the technical feasibility, safety, and efficacy of the ADO II in a canine PDA model. Methods: The ADO-II consists of multi-layer nitinol wire braid with symmetric retention disks and an articulating connecting center waist, without sewn-in polyester, that can be delivered though a 4-5F catheter. A PDA was surgically created in nine dogs. Transcatheter occlusion of the PDA was performed using the ADO II. Angiographic and hemodynamic data were obtained at 7, 30, 60, and 90 days post-procedure. The devices were then harvested for pathology. Results: Devices were placed transarterially (n = 8) and transvenously (n = 1). All PDAs were occluded and there were no significant pressure gradients (P > 0.05) at the immediate and 90 post-implant evaluations. Pathology found endothelial coverage on all aortic and pulmonary disks, except at the tip of the microscrew. There were no procedural complications. One canine was euthanized 4 hr after device implant because of a clinical deterioration. The staff veterinarian and pathologist concluded that the animal's illness was not device related. Conclusions: The Amplatzer ADO II devices can be safely deployed in animal models of PDAs, with complete resolution of the PDA shunt. The lower profile and symmetry of the ADO II allows for venous or arterial approach and smaller delivery catheter size. The ADO-II is expected to be a preferred alternative for closure of small-moderate PDAs. ? 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Choi, YoungRok
AU  - Choi, Jong Young
AU  - Yi, Nam-Joon
AU  - Lee, Kyoungbun
AU  - Mori, Shozo
AU  - Hong, Geun
AU  - Kim, Hyeyoung
AU  - Park, Min-Su
AU  - Yoo, Tae
AU  - Suh, Suk-Won
AU  - Lee, Hae Won
AU  - Lee, Kwang-Woong
AU  - Suh, Kyung-Suk
TI  - Liver transplantation for HBsAg-positive recipients using grafts from HBsAg-positive deceased donors
JO  - Transplant International
JA  - Transpl Int
VL  - 26
IS  - 12
SN  - 0934-0874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tri.12177
DO  - doi:10.1111/tri.12177
SP  - 1173
EP  - 1183
KW  - HBsAg positive
KW  - hepatitis B antigen
KW  - liver transplantation
KW  - marginal graft
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary This study reports our experience using deceased donor liver grafts from HBsAg-positive donors. We performed eight cases of liver transplantation (LT) using grafts from deceased HBsAg-positive donors between November 2005 and October 2010. The median age of donors was 48 years (range: 26?64). HBV DNA in the serum of donors ranged from 44 to 395 IU/ml, but HBeAg in all donors was negative. Preoperative laboratory and liver biopsy samples revealed the absence of definitive cirrhotic features and hepatitis. All recipients showed HBsAg positive preoperatively except one patient with HBsAg(?) status post previous LT for HBV related liver cirrhosis. The median age was 60 years (range: 46?76) at LT. Post-LT antiviral management consisted of hepatitis B immunoglobulin and antiviral nucleos(t)ide analogues. The median follow-up period was 25.5 months (range: 14?82). Of eight recipients, two recipients experienced serum HBsAg and HBV DNA disappearance postoperatively. Three recipients died of HBV-unrelated causes. The remaining five recipients were stable with normal liver function and no marked pathologic changes on follow-up biopsies. This experience shows that LT using grafts from deceased HBsAg-positive donors is feasible, and may represent a valuable expansion of the pool of organ donors with appropriate antiviral management and monitoring.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 7th International Symposium on Enabling Technologies for Life Sciences (ETP)
JO  - Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry
JA  - Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom.
VL  - 27
IS  - 22
SN  - 0951-4198
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rcm.6724
DO  - doi:10.1002/rcm.6724
SP  - 2570
EP  - 2580
PY  - 2013
AB  - The seventh in the series of ETP Symposia (see Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 2012, 26, 1515?1518 for a description and report on the 6th Symposium) was held at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, Toronto, Canada, on 30 April to 1 May, 2013, and was chaired by Professor Daniel Figeys, Ottawa Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa. The purpose of these symposia is to convene meetings of scientists and engineers from universities, government laboratories, industry and manufacturers of scientific instrumentation, to discuss novel technologies and methodologies applicable to research in molecular biology. The speakers and the Abstracts of their presentations are listed alphabetically below. The program illustrates some significant changes from earlier versions (www.etpsymposium.org) that were devoted almost entirely to proteomics (the 'P' in 'ETP'). In addition to new techniques and applications related to that area, this symposium featured work related to nucleic acid characterization, biomaterials discovery, water disinfection byproducts, and metabolomics, as well as more fundamental developments in mass spectrometry (ionization techniques and quadrupole theory) and sample preparation. The symposium is now more truly international, with speakers from Canada, USA, Europe and China. It is hoped that the wide variety of topics and backgrounds of participants, together with the highly informal setting, will help promote cross-fertilization of ideas and unforeseen collaborations. Perdita E. Barran, Department of Chemistry, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK Resolution of solution structures in the absence of solvent (Invited Talk) Gentle application of nano-electrospray to proteins buffered in solution to an appropriate pH allows us to use mass spectrometry to interrogate their solution conformations. This can be achieved directly with ion mobility mass spectrometry where we measure the rotationally averaged temperature dependent collision cross section of mass separated ions, or more indirectly with the use of dissociation methods. Data obtained from both methods provides insight to the structure and stability of the protein, and also detail on its interactions, especially when combined with atomistically resolved data from crystallography and/or computational approaches. Data were presented from two systems, the first was a peptide level model of the interaction between the transcription factor c-MYC and its partner MAX; the second was a detailed structural evaluation of the metamorphic protein Lymphotactin. Ronald Beavis, Beavis Informatics Ltd, Winnipeg, Canada False negatives in proteomics (Invited Talk) Proteomics experiments using tandem mass spectrometry to identify peptides and proteins are prone to various types of false negative identifications that can affect the utility of the information generated from the experiments, as well as their reproducibility. This talk discussed the classification of the most common types of false negatives as well as how they can be detected, remedied or avoided. John D. Brennan, Blake J. Helka and Elna D. Luckham, Department of Chemistry, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada Imaging MALDI MS/MS of microarrays as a platform for high throughput biomaterials discovery (Invited Talk) This presentation highlighted recent work within the Biointerfaces Institute at McMaster University in the area of high throughput screening of biomaterials, with particular emphasis on the use of imaging MALDI for characterization of biomaterial microarrays. Using robotic handling systems and a combination of contact and noncontact microarray printing, we are able to produce several thousand biomaterials per day with a wide range of chemical compositions. Using sol?gel based materials as an example, the presentation showed the workflow utilized to develop new bioactive sol?gel materials for biosensing and small molecule screening applications. This includes methods to produce several thousand materials very rapidly, tools for rapid screening to identify ' hits' that show a desired property (high biological activity, low non-specific binding, etc.), and further detailed material analysis using a range of imaging methods based on fluorescence, XPS, MALDI-MS/MS and SPR to fully characterize the properties of biologically active materials. In particular, this presentation emphasized the unique capabilities of MALDI-MS/MS for evaluating biomaterial properties and the interaction of materials with biological samples. Methods for cataloging, mining and analyzing large datasets within the Database of Biointerface Interactions were also discussed. Rui Chen, H. Zou and D. Figeys, Ontario Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada Characterization of cell membrane N-glycosylation with integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction and LC/MS/MS Glycosylation of membrane proteins plays important roles in cellular behaviours such as cell-cell interaction, immunology recognition and cell signalling. Despite their importance the effective extraction of membrane protein, selective isolation of glycopeptides and mass spectrometric characterization of glycosylation are challenging current analytical techniques. In this study, a systematic approach was developed which combined an integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction (HILIC SPE) for simultaneous detergent removal and glycopeptides enrichment, and mass spectrometric identification of both protein N-glycosylation sites and site-specific glycan structure. The HILIC SPE condition was optimized to enable the use of high concentration of strong detergents, such as SDS and Triton X-100, to dissolve highly hydrophobic membrane proteins, thus increasing the yield of membrane protein extraction. We illustrated the performance of this approach for the study of membrane protein glycosylation from human embryonic kidney cell lines (HEK 293T). 200 µg total protein digest was processed using this approach, leading to the identification of 813 N-glycosylation sites from 568 proteins within two experimental replicates. Furthermore, 177 glycopeptides representing 82 N-glycosides with both glycan composition and peptide sequence were identified by high energy collision dissociation. Andrew Crowell, A. Doucette and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada. Disposable two-stage spin cartridges for protein purification in a top-down proteomics workflow Proper proteome analysis by mass spectrometry depends on upstream sample manipulations, including protein concentration and purification. Cleanup strategies typically rely on chromatography, not only for the relative high recovery and purification efficiency, but also for ease of use through automation. Unfortunately, with chromatographic approaches sample loss is an expected occurrence, especially for high molecular weight and/or hydrophobic (membrane) proteins. By contrast, organic solvent-assisted protein precipitation is extremely effective at protein purification with minimal sample loss. Quantitative protein recovery is possible, though it is highly dependent on the pipetting skills of the individual. It is desired to create a robust protein precipitation protocol by automating the process, thereby maximizing recovery and purity on a high throughput scale. This presentation introduces a disposable two-stage centrifugal cartridge, tailored to automate the precipitation process. The ProTrap XG comprises an upper filtration cartridge together with a removable reversed phase cartridge, attaching at its base. Protein samples are mixed with organic solvents in the upper filter chamber, which induces precipitation of proteins. The pellet is retained by the filter, while contaminants in the supernatant are discarded to waste through a brief spin in a desktop centrifuge. Multiple devices can be used simultaneously, improving throughput while maintaining consistency between samples. Following precipitation, protein pellets are re-solubilized and subject to final purification through the reverse phase cartridge which is re-attached to the base of the filter. The effectiveness of the ProTrap XG for recovery and purification of intact proteins in a top-down proteomics workflow was discussed. Alan Doucette, A. Crowell and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada Automated SDS removal, tryptic digestion and sample cleanup in a disposable two-stage spin cartridge Prior to MS analysis, bottom up proteomics relies on a significant number of sample manipulations including protein purification and preconcentration, fractionation, digestion, and subsequent cleanup. Each of these steps comes with a risk of loss of analyte and adds to the complexity of the proteomics workflow. The GELFrEE fractionation system is a mass-based electrophoretic platform which relies on an SDS-containing sample buffer to isolate protein fractions in solution. Our group has recommended the use of solvent-induced protein precipitation (acetone or chloroform/methanol/water) to eliminate the SDS ahead of LC/MS analysis. However, protein precipitation is a particularly tedious and highly variable technique for the recoverery of proteins in high yield. Subsequent resolubilization of the protein pellet is also challenging, and further jeopardizes the success of MS characterization. To facilitate protein precipitation we have developed a two-stage filtration and chromatographic extraction cartridge designed to work in a conventional benchtop centrifuge. The device automates the recovery of proteins, ensuring uniform purification on a high throughput scale. Protein samples are precipitated in an upper chamber, with residual contaminants (including SDS) flushed through the bottom filter. At this point the base filter is capped, trapping proteins in the upper vial for subsequent resolubilization. A combination of urea and trypsin ensures complete digestion of the pellet. The peptides are then subject to reversed phase purification; here we link a chromatographic cartridge to the base of the filter chamber. Key figures of merit of the device, including the purity of SDS removal, protein recovery, digestion efficiency and peptide recovery, were demonstrated through standard and complex proteome mixtures. Don Douglas1, C. Gao1, K. Kim1, H. Qiao2 and N. Konenkov3 1Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 2Ionics Mass Spectrometry Group, Bolton, ON, Canada 3Physical and Mathematical Department, Ryazan State University, Ryazan, Russia Space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps with mass selective axial ejection (Invited Talk) Experiments and ion trajectory calculations have been used to better understand and to reduce space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps operated with axial ejection. If too many ions are stored in a linear trap their mutual repulsion counteracts the trapping forces and the ion oscillation frequencies decrease. Consequently higher trapping radio frequency voltages are required to bring ions into resonance for ejection, and ions appear at higher apparent masses in a spectrum. At the same time the mass resolution decreases. For the experiments of interest here the mass shifts are about 1 at m/z 609, and the electric field from space charge is a small perturbation to the trapping field. Experiments show that a proper choice of operating conditions can reduce but not eliminate mass shifts. Trajectory calculations of ion motion with various models of the ion cloud provide additional insight, and show that the space charge field is nonlinear and that therefore the ion oscillation frequency depends on oscillation amplitude. Anything that expands the ion cloud produces lower electric fields from space charge, and hence lowers mass shifts. Experiments in progress show that using broadband excitation, dipole dc, or two-frequency excitation to expand the ion cloud gives modest reductions in mass shifts and improvements in resolution. Norman Dovichi, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana, USA Capillary electrophoresis for high throughput proteomics (Keynote Lecture) Most proteomics studies employ LC/ESI-MS/MS analysis of peptides. We are investigating capillary electrophoresis (CE)/ESI-MS/MS as an alternative technology for bottom-up proteomics. We first developed a rugged and sensitive CE/ESI interface based on electrokinetically pumped sheath-flow.[1] This interface operates in the nanospray domain, produces low-attomole detection limits for CE separation of peptides, and offers great flexibility in separation buffer conditions.[1,2] We then analyzed the secreted protein fraction of M. marinum.[3] We pre-fractionated the secretome to produce simpler samples that were better suited to the separation performance of capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE). The results of the analysis of 12 fractions were compared with conventional UPLC analysis of the unfractionated sample. CZE produced slightly more protein identifications in a slightly shorter time period than UPLC. 140 protein groups were identified by CZE/ESI-MS/MS in three hours from this sample. We have recently improved the system. In the single-shot analysis of the E coli proteome, we identified >1,300 peptides and >300 protein groups in a 50-min CZE separation.[4] We have employed this separation system to analyze seven fractions from the E. coli proteome.[5] This system produced 23,706 peptide spectra matches, 4,902 peptide IDs, and 871 protein group IDs in 350 min analysis time. In an alternative separations scheme, we employed capillary isoelectric focusing for the analysis of host-cell proteins in commercial biopharma products; this system identified 37 host cell proteins in a total sample preparation time of 4 hours.[6] [1] Wojcik et al. Rapid Communun. Mass Spectrom. 2010, 24, 2554. [2] Wojcik et al. Talanta 2012, 88, 324. [3] Li et al. Anal. Chem. 2012, 84, 1616. [4] Zhu et al. Anal. Chem. 2013, 85, 2569. [5] Yan et al. In revision [6] Zhu et al. Talanta 2012, 98, 253. Ann M. English, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada Platform development to monitor age- and oxidant-related protein post-translational modifications: The case of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (Invited Talk) Non-enzymatic protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) increase with age and are frequently associated with age-dependent diseases. For example, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) aggregation has been reported in patients with late onset neurodegenerative diseases such as sporadic or familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's. Non-enzymatic PTMs in CuZnSOD are linked to its aggregation and hence to the development of ALS and Alzheimer's. Yeast is a widely used model of cellular and organismal aging that can be readily exploited in platforms to monitor age-related PTMs in a cellular environment. Furthermore, yeast and human CuZnSODs share high sequence homology but, since yeast ages much faster, we are exploring age-related PTMs in the yeast enzyme. By gel filtration of cell lysates we isolated a high-mass inactive form of CuZnSOD, and found by FT-MS that it is oxidized at cysteine 146 (C146) to the sulfonic acid. Importantly, C146 is also found in the sulfonic acid form in CuZnSOD isolated from the brains of Alzheimer's patients[1] and the C146R mutation has been reported in familial ALS.[2] Notably, C146 forms a C146-C55 disulfide bridge that is critical in stabilizing the native CuZnSOD homodimer. In high-mass CuZnSOD, we additionally observe oxidation of histidine 71 (H71) and H120, which ligate the active-site zinc and catalytic copper, respectively. We hypothesize that age-induced oxidation of C146, H71, and H120 contributes to the development of ALS as well as Alzheimer's by releasing the redox-active catalytic copper, which would probably increase oxidative stress and CuZnSOD aggregation. By monitoring the GFP (green fluorescent protein) fluorescence of CuZnSOD-GFP from an isogenic yeast strain expressing this fusion protein, we noted that the cellular content of high-mass CuZnSOD-GFP increases ~10-fold from day 3 to day 7. We are currently characterizing CuZnSOD and CuZnSOD-GFP from yeast cells over several weeks to establish if aggregated CuZnSOD continues to accumulate in old cells. CuZnSOD activity also is known to be inhibited by inflammatory processes in the airway epithelium, and C146 oxidation was reported in CuZnSOD purified from the erythrocytes of asthmatic patients.[3] To mimic the inflammatory state of asthma we are examining modification of CuZnSOD after challenging yeast cells with H2O2. Our highly sensitive LC/MS platform that tracks protein modification as yeast ages is providing in-depth information at the molecular level that is critical towards understanding the functional significance of PTMs in the cellular context. [1] Choi et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005, 280, 11648. [2] Andersen et al. Amyotroph. Lateral Scler. Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2003, 4, 62. [3] Ghosh et al. Antioxid Redox Signal 2012. DOI: 10.1089/ars.2012.4566. Daniele Fabris, The RNA Institute, State University of New York, The University at Albany, Albany, NY, USA MS-based strategies for the elucidation of nucleic acid?ligand interactions (Invited Talk) Ribozymes and riboswitches have keenly demonstrated that the function of nucleic acids is not always linked to the genetic information coded in their sequence, but can also depend on their 3D structure and ability to interact with a variety of species present in the cell. Owing to the versatility afforded by mass spectrometry (MS) in RNA analysis this platform is rapidly assuming a prominent role in the investigation of structure-function relationships, which is realized by supporting the full characterization of natural and man-made RNAs as well as the elucidation of specific interactions with cognate nucleic acids, proteins, metals, and small molecule ligands. The talk illustrated strategies for accessing functional information for nucleic acid complexes and discussed possible hurdles and experimental pitfalls. Examples were provided in which MS-based techniques are employed to characterize relevant interactions that could represent new therapeutic targets. Other examples illustrated approaches for elucidating the effects of metals and common nucleic acid ligands on such interactions. The experimental design necessary to assess the strength of binding/inhibition in either comparative or absolute fashion was also discussed. The potential afforded by ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) techniques was evaluated in the investigation of possible conformational effects associated with ligand binding. Owing to the extremely low sample consumption and high speed of analysis, these capabilities will be expected to greatly increase the utilization of MS-based approaches in drug discovery and therapeutics development based on specific nucleic acid interactions. Bella Groisman, J. Petschnigg and I. Stagljar, Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada A novel mammalian split-ubiquitin proteomics approach as a tool for functional investigation of signaling pathways in human cells The membrane yeast two-hybrid system (MYTH) is a robust technique for the identification of protein partners of integral membrane proteins. However, its implementation for mammalian proteins is limited due to differences between mammalian and yeast cells. Here we present a novel split-ubiquitin-based mammalian membrane two-hybrid (MaMTH) technology that enables investigation of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in human cells. Briefly, the specific interaction between membrane 'bait' and 'prey' proteins, coupled to ubiquitin halves, allows reconstitution of functional ubiquitin. Subsequently, deubiquitinating enzymes cleave off the transcription factor coupled to the bait, thus activating reporter gene transcription. Using the MaMTH technology we successfully confirmed known PPIs of membrane proteins from various cellular compartments. Here we focus on the ErbB members of receptor tyrosine kinases, mainly on the EGFR wild type (WT) versus the oncogenic kinase-active L858R version ? dynamic interactomes and functional analysis. We demonstrate that MaMTH allows sensitive detection of phospho-dependent and drug-inhibited interactions. We show that EGFR WT recruits Shc1 adaptor in serum-dependent manner, while oncogenic L858R shows constitutively stimuli-independent binding. Furthermore, consistent with clinical data EGFR (L858R) interaction with Shc1 was efficiently inhibited by the EGFR small molecule inhibitor erlotinib (tarceva), while the secondary L858RT790M resistant mutant was not affected by the drug. In addition, we created a dynamic interactome of EGFR WT versus L858R with 200 predicted interactors, data which is of high importance for the cancer signaling scientific community. In summary, here we presented a novel powerful proteomics technology, which we are planning to develop as tool for high-throughput proteomic research as well as a drug screening platform. David Juncker, Department of Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montréal, Canada Antibody colocalization microarray (ACM): A scalable cross-reactivity free nano-ELISA platform for proteomics studies Quantification of proteins with high specificity in blood can be performed using sandwich immunossays (e.g. ELISA). Multiplex sandwich immunoassays (MSI) were developed to measure multiple proteins at once, but cross-reactivity among reagents is known to limit accuracy and reproducibility. Here we explain the origin of the cross-reactivity in MSI, experimentally show the consequences, and introduce a novel assay format called the antibody Colocalization Microarray (ACM) that eliminates it. In MSI a slide is patterned with an array of capture antibodies, incubated with a sample, followed by a mixture of detection antibodies. Here we analyze the combinatorial interactions between detection and capture antibodies and antigens, and find that it increases quadratically with the number of targets. In an array with 14 targets we found widespread cross-reactivity. To overcome the cross-reactivity we introduce the ACM where all detection antibodies are individually spotted with high accuracy onto their corresponding capture antibody spot. Each spot on the ACM replicates an ELISA but using only 1 nL of reagent, constituting a Nano-ELISA. An ACM with 50 targets was shown experimentally to overcome cross-reactivity and to rival the sensitivity of ELISA. The ACM was validated for biomarker studies by measuring proteins in the serum of breast cancer patients and controls, and a candidate biomarker panel was identified. It is currently being used to identify biomarkers for traumatic brain injury. As the number of targets on the ACM is increased easily, it may become a powerful tool for biomarker discovery and validation. John Klassen, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada New MS tools for the discovery and characterization of protein-carbohydrate interactions (Invited Talk) The direct electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) assay has emerged as a powerful tool for quantifying protein-ligand interactions in solution. The assay is based on the direct detection and quantification of free and ligand-bound protein ions by ESI-MS for solutions of known initial concentrations of protein and ligand. A brief overview of the ESI-MS assay was presented, along with recent methodological advances that overcome the major sources of error in the binding measurements. A high-throughput ESI-MS approach to library screening was also presented. The catch-and-release (CaR)-ESI-MS assay involves incubating a protein with a library of compounds in solution, detecting the protein-ligand complexes by ESI-MS, activating the complexes to release the ligand. The identities of ligands are determined from measured molecular weights and, if needed, the fragmentation spectra and ion mobility arrival time distributions. The CaR-ESI-MS assay allows for the sensitive, rapid (<1 min analysis time) and direct detection and quantification of specific interactions for libraries containing hundreds of compounds. An overview of the assay was presented followed by examples highlighting the application of the assay for the discovery of carbohydrate ligands for a variety of bacterial proteins. Finally, the extension of the CaR-ESI-MS assay for the discovery of host cell receptors was described. The assay involves direct ESI-MS analysis of aqueous solutions of soluble proteins and insoluble receptors, which are incorporated into nanodiscs. The application of this assay for the detection of interactions between bacterial toxins and glycosphingolipids was presented. X. Chris Le, H. Zhang, F. Li, B. Dever, X. Li, C. Wang, M. Wagner, Z. Wang and X.-F. Li, Departments of Chemistry and of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada DNA-mediated binding assays for nucleic acids and proteins (Invited Talk) The detection of nucleic acids and proteins is fundamental for studying their functions and for the development of molecular diagnostics. Determining these biomolecules in complex systems requires exquisite analytical specificity and sensitivity. To meet these requirements we have devoted much effort to affinity binding assays that incorporate target recognition, signal transduction, and in situ amplification. Here we focus on homogeneous binding assays, which are carried out in solution, without the need for separation, immobilization, or washing steps. Such homogeneous binding assays can be performed in a single tube/vial or in live cells. They are potentially applicable to point-of-care diagnostics. For example, a binding-induced DNA assembly enables ultrasensitive detection of molecular targets and construction of unique target-dependent nanoreactors. Two DNA motifs that are conjugated to specific affinity probes assemble preferentially only when a specific target triggers a binding event. The binding-induced assembly of the DNA motifs results in the formation of a highly stable hairpin structure, enabling effective differentiation of the target-specific assembly from the background. This strategy pushes the limit of the state-of-art dynamic DNA nanotechnology to include molecules beyond DNA. The ability to generate dynamic DNA assembly by non-DNA molecules opens up opportunities for diverse potential applications, ranging from the construction of protein-induced nanodevices to the in situ detection of proteins and studies of molecular interactions. XingFang Li, W. Wang, Y. Quian and J. M. Boyd, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. Mass spectrometry methods for characterization and determination of disinfection byproducts in tap water and swimming pools Protection of public health requires disinfection of drinking water and recreation pools to effectively prevent water-borne diseases. However, common disinfection treatments unavoidably generate byproducts resulting from reactions between natural organic matter in the source water and disinfectants. The majority (~70%) of disinfection byproducts (DBPs) in treated water remain unidentified. Potential adverse health effects observed in epidemiological studies drive analytical research to identify and determine what DBPs may contribute to these health risks. Here we present the separation of and mass spectrometry methods to characterize emerging DBPs of toxicological relevance, and investigate the occurrence of these DBPs in swimming pools. The research demonstrated that personal care products contributed to the formation of some emerging DBPs such as halobenzoquinones. Yueqiao Fu, Lily Mats, Graham T. T. Gibson and Richard Oleschuk, Department of Chemistry, Queens University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada Multi-nano ESI, in pursuit of enhanced robustness, stability and sensitivity (Invited Talk) Electrospray ionization (ESI) as a soft ionization technique has been critical to mass spectrometry for analyzing biological macromolecules. NanoESI, which is operated at lower flow rates (nL/min), exhibits both higher ionization efficiency and higher sensitivity since the smaller initial electrospray droplets from the emitter afford increased surface charge per analyte molecule. To improve sensitivity and signal without decreasing flow rate, multiple electrosprays have been generated from multiple emitters by splitting one larger flow into smaller flows in the nanoESI regime. Based upon theoretical prediction and experimental results, the measured spray current generated from an emitter producing multiple Taylor cones (Itotal) is enhanced relative to the spray current from a single emitter (Is) at the same overall flow rate by a factor of the square root of the number of emitters (n). We have developed a series of multi-channeled emitters based upon silica and polymer microstructured fibers (MSFs). Custom-designed MSFs having holes in a radial pattern were fabricated using a 'stack and draw' technique, allowing multiple electrosprays from a single fiber. Polymer nozzles have been included in the silica MSF design to enhance nanoESI performance. A layer of polymer is first formed on the inner wall of each of the MSF channels followed by etching with hydrofluoric acid to expose the nozzles. The protruding highly cross-linked divinylbenzene nozzles produce true multi-nanoESI over a wide range of flow rates and mobile phase compositions and are compatible with high-resolution liquid chromatographic separations. Anthony Pawson, Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Using synthetic biology to study protein signaling networks (Plenary Lecture) The proteins involved in the transmission of signals within cells are typically complex, in the sense that they often possess multiple interaction and/or catalytic domains, and are directly or indirectly connected to numerous distinct proteins and other biomolecules such as phospholipids. We have used a variety of synthetic biology and proteomics techniques to investigate the importance of the multiple protein- and lipid-binding domains of the Grb2 adaptor protein and its target, the Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor Sos1, in controlling a key cell fate decision in early mammalian embryogenesis, namely the differentiation of primitive endoderm tissue. We find that these domains act cooperatively as a coincidence detector to ensure that fibroblast growth factor-dependent signals are transmitted at the right time and in the right place to elicit the appropriate formation of primitive endoderm. Guy Poirier, J.-P. Gagné, J. D. Chapman and D. R. Goodlett, Department of Molecular Biology, Medical Biochemistry and Pathology, Laval University, Québec, PQ, Canada High accuracy mass spectrometry provides direct evidence for site-specific auto-ADP-ribosylation of PARP-1 Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is an abundant chromatin-associated protein involved in a variety of pathways such as DNA damage response (DDR), transcription regulation, cell cycle progression and apoptotic cell death. Upon DNA damage induction, DNA-dependent PARPs synthesize an anionic poly(ADP-ribose) (pADPr) polymer to which several proteins bind with the subsequent formation of pADPr-associated multiprotein complexes. PARP hydrolyzes NAD?+?in the formation of pADPr on nuclear proteins such as DNA repair enzymes, chromatin remodelers, histones, transcription factors and PARP-1 itself. The covalent attachment of pADPr to a substrate protein alters its physicochemical characteristics, which results in functional consequences on its biological activity. The exact nature of the ADP-ribose linkage catalyzed by PARP-1 has been the subject of controversy and debate. To date, it is still unclear which of the amino acid side chains are directly targeted by the ADP-ribose transferase activity of PARP-1. Radiolabeled NAD?+?has been a cornerstone in research for tracking and visualizing PARP-catalyzed post-translational protein modification in vitro, but the ability of the negatively charged pADPr to strongly interact with proteins in a non-covalent manner is a cause of confusion when interpreting experimental results. To truly begin to understand the exact nature of the poly(ADP-ribosly)ation reaction, there is a need for more conclusive mass spectrometry evidence of PARP-catalyzed protein modifications. Mapping of these modifications to specific amino acid residues on PARP-1 and other protein substrates of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reactions presents significant challenges due to the complex structural heterogeneity of pADPr polymers as well as a loss of amino acid sequencing information that occurs during several mass spectrometry peptide activation techniques commonly implemented for fragmentation. Here, we demonstrate a novel method for the identification of PARP-1 auto-poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation sites utilizing high mass accuracy mass spectrometry. By employing an enzymatically driven simplification of the pADPr modifications, we reduce the corresponding complexity of analyzing modified tryptic peptides at the level of the tandem mass spectrum, which in turn enables us to effectively localize exact sites of PARP-1-catalyzed poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. In conjunction with a phosphopeptide-like enrichment strategy that captures modified peptides, we are able to successfully locate numerous sites of PARP-1 automodification in a high-throughput proteomics screen suitable for universally available mass spectrometry and data analysis pipelines. Jeffrey Smith, K. Wasslen, S. Wood and J. Manthorpe, Department of Chemistry, Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi): Rapid on-column methylation of peptides and proteins to permit quantitative analysis using tandem mass spectrometry Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi) is an inexpensive and rapid on-column chemical derivatization technique to permit peptide methylation and quantitation. TrEnDi produces trimethylated primary amines that enhance and simplify label-free quantitation strategies via improved ionization through the formation of fixed quaternary ammonium ions. TrEnDi has been optimized on a microfluidic platform to successfully derivatize peptides from a protein digest with nearly 100% complete N-terminal methylation. Other amino acid side chains with pKa values of approximately 10.5 or less were also methylated. MS/MS analysis confirmed that N-termini trimethylated peptides fragmented to preferentially form the a2 ion, permitting a significant increase in sensitivity when scanning in the MRM mode. This allowed us to perform label-free MRM scanning of candidate peptides without prior knowledge of their fragmentation patterns. The trimethylated peptide N-termini were found to be very stable. However, hydrolysis of the newly formed methyl esters occurred over time. Hydrolysis was assisted using base hydrolysis in order to drive the derivatized peptides to homogeneity. To test the analytical sensitivity of derivatized peptides via MRM scanning, several low concentrations of the modified peptides were spiked into a series of more complex peptide solutions and the ability of the MRM method to obtain quantitative data was assessed. Our results have revealed that the trimethylated peptide N-termini produced strong MRM transitions and were identifiable at low concentrations, even in the presence of highly concentrated interferences. E. Bonneil1, F. Lamoliatte1,2, J. Saba4, O. Caron-Lizotte1 and Dr P. Thibault1,2,3, Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer1, and Departments of Chemistry2 and of Biochemistry3, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada, and Thermo Fisher Scientific4 Quantitative proteomics using FAIMS and isotopic labeling (Invited Talk) Isotopic labeling is a commonly used method in quantitative proteomics to profile changes in protein abundances across different cell conditions. Isotopic labeling can be performed using chemical reagents that target specific functional group on peptides (MS2 quantitation) or via metabolic labeling (stable isotope labeling of cell cultures, SILAC) where cells are cultured in media containing in either light or heavy isotopes of amino acids (MS quantitation). The predictable mass differences between peptides (or fragment ions) from two or more experimental conditions enable a direct quantification and provide precise functional information and temporal changes in the proteome. However, the dynamic range and precision of these quantitative measurements can be hampered by the increasing complexity of the mass spectra and the presence of co-eluting isobaric ions. In this context we evaluated the analytical potentials of high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) in large-scale quantitative proteomics experiments using stable isotope labeling on a LTQ-Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. The ability of FAIMS to separate multiply protonated compounds from singly charged background ions provided a unique advantage to extend the dynamic range of peptide detection while reducing the complexity of LC/MS peptide maps. FAIMS analyses performed on cell extracts derivatized with tandem mass tags (TMT)-6plex isotopic label reagent or grown under SILAC conditions provided improved quantitation and dynamic range compared with conventional nanoelectrospray. Quantitative proteomics analyses performed using FAIMS resulted in a reduction of mixed precursor ions and provided confident reporter ion measurements with increased peptide identification. Examples of application were presented for monitoring changes in the proteome of yeast and human cells. Ruijun Tian, Y. Shi, T. Hunter and T. Pawson, The Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Exploring bi-directional signaling in pancreatic tumor microenvironment by quantitative proteomics Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is one of the most lethal human cancers with resistance to many chemotherapeutic drugs. This drug resistance effect is believed to be partly caused by stromal-cancer cells interaction in pancreatic tumor microenvironment. Cell-cell interactions are often mediated by protein molecules expressed by one cell that are recognized by specific receptors present on neighboring cells. This intercellular communication activates specific signaling pathways through the induction of dynamic post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation and by protein-protein interactions. Here, we present the development of unbiased quantitative proteomics approaches to characterize a dynamic secretome and critical intracellular signaling in a simulated pancreatic tumor microenviroment in culture. A number of secreted ligand/receptor pairs have been explored which have significant effects on cancer cells proliferation. Our work establishes a generally applicable strategy for studying stromal-cancer cells communication and provides valuable resources for systematically understanding dysfunctional signaling networks in tumor microenvironment in a context closer to physiological conditions than was previously possible. Sarah Trimpin, Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA Matrix assisted ionization without a laser, heat, or voltage: identification of peptides and proteins directly from tissue (Invited Talk) A few years ago we introduced an ionization method for use in mass spectrometry (MS), applicable to volatile and nonvolatile compounds, which uses laser ablation of a matrix/analyte mixture similar to atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) but which produces mass spectra nearly identical to electrospray ionization (ESI). This new technique called laserspray ionization (LSI) has advantages of speed of analysis, high spatial resolution for imaging, mass range extension, and improved fragmentation common with multiply charged ions. LSI using the proper matrix was also shown to be capable of imaging multiply charged ions using atmospheric pressure or vacuum MALDI sources. Crucial for the production of highly charged ions are desolvation conditions to remove matrix from charged matrix/analyte clusters. By using a matrix that readily sublimes, we have now extended matrix-assisted ionization by eliminating the need for a laser or even heat to initiate ionization. Ions are spontaneously formed from a solid matrix/analyte material when introduced to a vacuum MALDI source without need of a laser, or to a modified ESI source without use of voltage. This matrix assisted ionization vacuum (MAIV) method produces similar charge states and drift times of ions, as determined by ion mobility spectrometry-MS, to ESI. Compounds at least as large as bovine serum albumin (67 kDa) become converted into highly charged gas-phase ions when exposed in the MAIV matrix to vacuum conditions. Such a simple ionization method, requiring only the vacuum necessary for the proper functioning of the mass spectrometer, may prove useful for analysis of single cells and in clinical applications. A possible mechanism for ionization involving sublimation/evaporation and charge generation through the mechanism that produces triboluminescence was discussed. Dietrich Volmer, Institute of Bioanalytical Chemistry, Saarland University, Saarbrücken, Germany New methods for improved determination of metabolic markers using advanced analytical mass spectrometry techniques (Invited Talk) New developments in metabolomics and metabolic profiling techniques have led to the discovery of metabolic biomarkers indicative of physiological or pathological change, e.g. onset of disease or nutritional effects of a specific diet. Experimental approaches for discovering new biomarkers usually involve proteomics or metabolomics techniques that detect differences between sample sets rather than measuring specific compounds as performed in traditional hypothesis-driven research. Unfortunately, finding metabolites present in significantly different levels between sample sets is often complicated by experimental variables such as method reproducibility, types of tissue sampling technique, analytical sample preparation technique, ion suppression phenomena, person-to-person or animal-to-animal metabolic variations, isobaric or isomeric noise, etc. All these error sources, variations or artefacts can lead to false assignment of metabolites or biomarkers and random and systematic errors during quantification. This presentation focused on our research on metabolite profiling techniques and sources of analytical errors. It presented examples for applications such as quantitative analysis and fingerprinting of vitamin D metabolites, microcystin toxin biomarkers and lipids. In addition, novel technical solutions involving ?magnetic? media (fluids and beads), ion mobility spectrometry and chemical labeling techniques were highlighted in this presentation. Fangjun Wang1, H. Zou1, M. Ye1 and Daniel Figeys2 1Key Lab of Separation Science for Analytical Chemistry, National Chromatography R 2Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology, Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. Recent development of technologies and methods for proteome analysis (Invited Talk) Technologies and methods play a highly important role for proteome analysis. Recent developments of technologies and methods for proteome analyses in our labs were presented:Combined technologies and methods, such as multi-enzyme digestion, different enrichment methods, multi-dimensional LC separation and different types of mass spectrometers, for comprehensive glycoproteome and phosphoproteome analysis of human liver; the largest dataset of protein phosphorylation and glycosylation for human liver was achieved.Solid-phase based technology by integrating all of the digestion, enrichment, and deglycosylation together with LC/MS analysis, was developed for glycoproteome analysis; both the identification sensitivity and the throughput were improved greatly.A solid-phase based labeling approach, by integration of glycopeptides and phosphopeptides enrichment and stable isotope labeling on adsorbent beads, was developed for relative quantification of protein glycosylation and phosphorylation.Six-plex stable isotope labeling was achieved by a two-stage stable isotope labeling strategy of SILAC and dimethylation isotope labeling, which allows six different protein samples (six-plex) to be reliably labeled and simultaneously quantified at MS1 level. This six-plex isotope labeling strategy was applied to investigate the dynamics of protein turnover, and the 50% turnover times of 1365 proteins within HeLa cells were successfully obtained. Hailin Wang, S. Liu, B. Zhao, D. Zhang, C. Li, State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. Insights on Isotachophoresis Kinetics from Monitoring Non-uniform Motion of single DNA molecules (Invited Talk) Isotachophoresis (ITP) has wide applications in chemistry and life sciences due to its pre-concentration function. A simplified ITP system consists of a leading electrolyte (LE) and a terminating electrolyte (TE). For LE and TE to migrate at the same velocity (v), the respective E in each zone must adapt to their electrophoretic mobility (?) according to Eqn. (1): The LE zone with a high electrophoretic mobility will have a low E, and the TE zone with a low electrophoretic mobility will have a high E. Current literature commonly assumes that the adaption of E is fast and is not the rate-limiting step. However, actual adaption kinetics of ITP has not been studied yet. Moreover, it is not clear how electroosmotic flow affects the kinetics of ITP. By taking advantage of single molecule imaging, we for the first time examined the changes in electric field and the resulting non-uniform motion of single DNA molecules in capillary isotachophoresis. The individual DNA molecules passing the detection window are consecutively imaged in real time at 50-millisecond intervals. Since the migration velocity of DNA is directly proportional to the applied electric field strength (E), imaging the movement of DNA provides necessary information for understanding the distribution of E throughout the capillary. This approach allows us to gain insights into the kinetics of varying-field ITP and enables us to develop a strategy for focusing and detecting single DNA molecules and DNA damages. John Wilkins, Departments of Internal Medicine, Biochemistry and Medical Genetics, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada Linking protein composition and functionality in biology and medicine (Invited Talk) The repertoire and functional state of proteins expressed by an organism ultimately determine their phenotype. Thus, the inclusion of measures of protein activity is an essential step to developing valid models of biological systems in disease and health. While genomics and proteomics provide detailed information on potential and current protein composition, these approaches generally offer limited insight regarding protein functional states. However, many proteins possess catalytic activities that are stringently controlled by mechanisms that restrict substrate accessibility to the active site. This is the central premise of activity-based protein profiling. The use of enzyme activity as a predictor of organ function or health offers several advantages in the clinical environment. The assays can be highly specific because of the structural features of their substrates. The high substrate turnover numbers of enzymes provides an amplification mechanism that increases assay sensitivity. Activity-based profiling offers a means of probing clinical samples for novel enzymatic activities as new reporters. Some of our experiences in the application of this approach profiling assessing renal function were presented. The identification of a protein, even an active one, does not necessarily address the questions of ?What does the protein do?? and ?Why is it needed??. These questions can be further complicated by the observations that function(s) are often context specific. We have used integrated proteomic, activity based protein profiling and functional genomics approaches in an effort to examine lymphocyte migration, a process that is central to normal immune function. Derek Wilson, T. Rob, D. Golemi-Kotra and P. Kama-Gill, Department of Chemistry, York University, Toronto, Canada Microfluidics-enabled, sub-second hydrogen/deuterium exchange pulse labeling reveals allosteric 'hotspots' in enzymes Regulation of metabolic pathways is achieved by modulation of enzyme activity, commonly via direct interactions at the active site. However, a substantial number of enzymes are also sensitive to changes at locations well removed from the site of catalysis. These 'allosteric' effects are easily detected, but are exceedingly difficult to characterize because they are usually driven by subtle changes in conformation or dynamics. In this work we use a new microfluidic chip that incorporates a bottom-up workflow with sub-second H/D exchange pulse labeling to probe time-dependent structural and dynamic changes in the beta-lactamase enzyme TEM-1 upon inhibitor binding. Changes in deuterium uptake were noted from the first time-point after acylation, corresponding to both increases and decreases in labeling ('loosening' and 'tightening' of the structure, respectively). As the acyl-enzyme was allowed to age, time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were detected, indicating the presence of slow structural changes occurring up to 2 s after acylation. In general, peptides showing instantaneous changes in uptake were located near the active site, while peptides that exhibited time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were located at the periphery of the enzyme. In the active site, patterns of increasing and decreasing rigidity explain the roles of Arg244 and Asn276 in the inhibitory mechanism. At the periphery, slow changes in uptake are observed specifically in allosteric 'hotspots' that include residues known from mutational analysis to play a role in TEM-1 catalytic efficiency. David Wishart, Departments of Biological Sciences and Computing Science, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Clearing the biomarker barrier: Moving biomarkers from the bench to the bedside (Invited Talk) One of the great promises of the 'omics' era was the delivery of a gene or a protein to diagnose every disease. Unfortunately this hasn't quite happened. While our understanding of the etiology of disease has improved tremendously our ability to diagnose or predict disease has not. This has a lot to do with our inability to translate biomarkers from the bench to the bedside. Indeed, after nearly 20 years of work and more than $5 billion in investment, there have been only a few microarray tests and, as yet, no protein-array or proteomic tests approved by the FDA for diseases diagnosis. On the other hand, dozens of metabolomic biomarkers have successfully made the transition from the lab to the clinic. Why? This presentation discussed some of the secrets to the success of metabolomics in clearing the 'biomarker barrier'. In particular, some key guidelines for designing, performing and reporting biomarkers in a biomarker study, as well as some advice with regard to the process of moving biomarkers from the laboratory to the clinic, were provided. Some examples of how quantitative metabolomics is being used to identify biomarkers for a wide range of diseases, and the status of my lab's efforts to try to move some these biomarkers into clinical testing, were also discussed. THE KEN STANDING AWARD LECTURE (Sponsored by the University of Manitoba) Lars Konermann, Departments of Chemistry and of Biochemistry, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada Electrospray mass spectrometry as a readout of protein structure and function Proteins are nanomachines that carry out countless tasks in every living organism. To perform these functions, the linear amino acid chain of each protein has to fold into a highly specific three-dimensional structure. On the other hand, misfolding and aggregation are associated with diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. X-ray crystallography remains the gold standard for obtaining high-resolution structural information. However, the data generated in this way do not properly reflect the highly dynamic nature of proteins, which is a key prerequisite for biological function. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) provides a number of avenues for exploring protein structure, function, folding, and dynamics. Our laboratory specializes in the use of hydrogen exchange and covalent labeling techniques. This presentation discussed time-resolved investigations that provide detailed insights into the mechanisms of protein folding. The area of membrane protein structure and function, and the use of ESI-MS for probing biological self-assembly processes, were also discussed. In addition, recent advances in understanding the physical processes that allow the formation of gaseous biomolecular ions during ESI were presented. THE BILL DAVIDSON GRADUATE STUDENT TRAVEL AWARD (Sponsored by ABSciex) Feng Li, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dr X. Chris Le, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dynamic DNA assemblies mediated by binding-induced DNA strand displacement Dynamic DNA assemblies have shown promising potential to regulate cell activities, deliver therapeutic compounds, and amplify detection signals for molecular diagnostics and imaging. However, such applications of dynamic DNA assembly systems have been limited to nucleic acids and a few small molecules. It is challenging to construct dynamic DNA assemblies that are responsive to proteins. We have developed a binding-induced DNA strand displacement strategy that can convert protein binding to the release of a predesigned output DNA at room temperature with high conversion efficiency and low background. This strategy allows us to construct dynamic DNA assembly systems that are able to respond to specific protein binding, opening an opportunity to expand the existing dynamic DNA nanotechnology to proteins for diverse applications. We have applied this strategy to design a binding-induced DNA strand displacement beacon and a binding-induced DNA circuit, both of which are triggered by protein binding. We have demonstrated the detection of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and prostate specific antigen (PSA). Further applications could be in the area of point-of-care analysis of proteins that could be performed under ambient temperature and without requiring the use of enzymes for signal generation and/or amplification. POSTER PRESENTATIONS J. Anichina, A. Schreiber, R. Bonner and T. Sakuma High-resolution tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the interactions of oligonucleotides with selected river basin specific pollutants E. Forsberg and J. Brennan Bio-solid phase extraction and information dependent tandem mass spectrometry for the identification of enzyme inhibitors in complex mixtures H. Li, S. Bergeron, and D. Juncker Snap chip 2.0: Double microarray-to-microarray transfer for easy-to-use, high-density antibody colocalization microarrays P. Liuni and D. J. Wilson Investigating catalysis-linked dynamics in yeast alcohol dehydrogenase by measuring kinetic isotope effects using time-resolved ESI-MS with H/D exchange. P. S. Lo, V. Laforte, S. Bergeron, J. Marcoux and D. Juncker Using the antibody colocalization microarray to measure proteins in complex samples from severe traumatic brain injury patients Z. Ning, D. Seebun, B. Hawley, C.-K. Chiang and D. Figeys From cells to peptides: 'One-stop' integrated proteomic processing using Amphipols D.J. Orton, J.P. Rogers and A.A. Doucette A dual capillary nanospray interface for improved throughput in LC/MS A. Sardar iTRAQ coupled 2D-LC-MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis reveals proteome changes associated Leishmania donovani promastigote adaptation to oxidative and nitrosative stress A. M. Smith and J.D. Brennan Development of a multiplexed kinase assay via MALDI-MS/MS detection J. Song, X. Tang, L. Li, L.C. Palmer, D. Pinto and K. Chisholm OFFGEL peptide pre-fractionation is essential for proteomic approaches employing quantitative stable isotope dimethyl labeling and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in fruit proteomic research C. Stephan Pushing the frontier in ICP-MS applications: Counting and sizing nanoparticles using single particle ICP-MS D. Williams, S. Madler, L.V. DeSouza, A. Matta and K.W.M. Siu Intracellular signalling network expression profiling by LC/MS with a heavy isotope-labelled QconCAT internal standard Information about past and future symposia and conferences organized by ETP can be found at the website www.etpsymposium.org. Robert K. Boyd, Researcher Emeritus, National Research Council of Canada Chair, Science Advisory Committee, ETP
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lee, H.
AU  - Lee, M.
AU  - Lee, J.
AU  - Kim, H.
AU  - Yoon, J.
AU  - Choi, J.
TI  - Ultrasonographic diagnosis of a fibrinonecrotic colonic cast in a kitten with feline panleukopenia virus
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 53
IS  - 7
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2012.01223.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2012.01223.x
SP  - 416
EP  - 418
PY  - 2012
AB  - Ultrasonography of a cat with diarrhoea and vomiting revealed a multi-layered, discrete linear structure within the large intestine with retention of the intestinal layers which could potentially be confused with an intestinal intussusception. The structure was ultimately expelled from the large intestine during defecation, and confirmed as a fibrinonecrotic cast. The origin of the fibrinonecrotic cast was assumed to be an intestinal pseudo-membrane formed in enteritis caused by immune suppression due to the panleukopenia virus. To our knowledge, this is the first ultrasonographic description of a fibrinonecrotic cast and spontaneous passage of the colonic cast in the veterinary field.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Strudwick, Kirsten
AU  - McPhee, Megan
AU  - Bell, Anthony
AU  - Martin-Khan, Melinda
AU  - Russell, Trevor
TI  - Review article: Best practice management of common shoulder injuries and conditions in the emergency department (part 4 of the musculoskeletal injuries rapid review series)
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 30
IS  - 4
SN  - 1742-6731
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.12921
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.12921
SP  - 456
EP  - 485
KW  - emergency medicine
KW  - evidence-based practice
KW  - review
KW  - shoulder injuries
KW  - shoulder pain
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Shoulder injuries are a commonly presenting complaint to the ED. In the absence of an obvious deformity, they can be difficult to assess and definitively diagnose because of the multiple structures that cause shoulder pain, the acuity and severity of pain and the lack of range of motion in the ED setting. The quality of ED care provided to patients with musculoskeletal shoulder pain is crucial to ensure the best possible outcomes for the patient. This rapid review investigated best practice for the assessment and management of common shoulder injuries and conditions in the ED. Databases were searched in 2017, including PubMed, CINAHL, EMBASE, TRIP and the grey literature, including relevant organisational websites. Primary studies, systematic reviews and guidelines published in English-language in the past 12?years that addressed the acute assessment, management, follow-up plan or prognosis were considered for inclusion. Data extraction of included articles was conducted, followed by quality appraisal to rate the level of evidence. The search revealed 1902 articles, of which 73 were included in the review (n =?12 primary articles, n =?49 systematic reviews and n =?12 guidelines). This rapid review provides clinicians who manage shoulder dislocations, fractures and soft tissue injuries in the ED a summary of the best available evidence to enhance the quality of care for optimal patient outcomes. There is strong evidence to support taking a thorough history and physical examination, with cautious use of special tests because of their poor diagnostic accuracy. Key points regarding the diagnosis and management of these injuries are provided.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chen, Xuming
AU  - Chen, Jie
AU  - Jin, Senjun
AU  - Yan, Guangzhao
AU  - Hu, Chaozhou
AU  - Hu, Shengan
TI  - The circular RNA HIPK3 reduces hydrogen peroxide-induced injury of PC-12 cells by upregulation of miR-455
JO  - Journal of Cellular Biochemistry
JA  - J Cell Biochem
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 0730-2312
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcb.29660
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcb.29660
KW  - autophagy
KW  - craniocerebral trauma
KW  - extracellular signal-regulated kinase
KW  - mean fluorescence intensity
KW  - nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2
KW  - viability
AB  - Abstract Craniocerebral trauma is a serious disease accompanied with mechanical damage, oxidative damage, and neuronal apoptosis. Circular RNA HIPK3 (circHIPK3), an abundant circRNA, exerts the function in promoting cell growth. Therefore, we aimed to explore the biological roles and mechanism of circHIPK3 on cell damage in craniocerebral trauma. PC-12 cells were cotransfected with PLCDH-cirHIPK3 and microRNA-455 (miR-455) inhibitor and then were treated with H2O2 for 24?hours. Cell viability, apoptosis and mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) were tested through trypan blue staining, flow cytometry and reactive oxygen species assay, respectively. Expression of circHIPK3 and miR-455 were tested through quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Expression of pro-PARP, cleaved-PARP, pro-caspase-3, cleaved-caspase-3, pro-caspase-9, cleaved-caspase-9, ?-actin, beclin-1, p62, light chain 3-I (LC3-I), LC3-II, nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), t-extracellular-regulated kinase (t-ERK) and p-ERK were tested via Western blot experiments. The 100??M H2O2-induced cell damage presented as reducing cell viability, increasing apoptosis, autophagy, and MFI. Besides, H2O2 could downregulate circHIPK3. However, overexpression of circHIPK3 attenuated cell damage caused by H2O2 that it increased cell viability, decreased apoptosis, autophagy and MFI through upregulating miR-455. Additionally, circHIPK3 overexpression promoted the activation of Nrf2 and ERK signal pathways by upregulating miR-455. Our study demonstrated that circHIPK3 attenuated H2O2-induced cell damage and activated Nrf2 and ERK signal pathways by upregulation of miR-455.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ramchand, Rajeev
AU  - Franklin, Enchanté
AU  - Thornton, Elizabeth
AU  - Deland, Sarah M.
AU  - Rouse, Jeffrey C.
TI  - Violence, Guns, and Suicide in New Orleans: Results from a Qualitative Study of Recent Suicide Decedents
JO  - Journal of Forensic Sciences
JA  - J Forensic Sci
VL  - 63
IS  - 5
SN  - 0022-1198
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1556-4029.13742
DO  - doi:10.1111/1556-4029.13742
SP  - 1444
EP  - 1449
KW  - forensic science
KW  - suicide
KW  - firearms
KW  - proxy respondents
KW  - storage
KW  - posttraumatic stress disorder
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Many Americans own guns to protect themselves against other people, but there is evidence that both victimization and gun access increase suicide risk. We conducted qualitative interviews with informants of 17 suicide cases in New Orleans of the 60 who died between January 2015 and April 2016 to understand the relationship between past trauma, gun access and storage, and suicide. Nine cases had experienced a past trauma, including three who had recently had a family member killed by homicide. Eight died via firearm; of those, seven owned the guns they used to take their lives and stored them locked (but loaded) at home or in their cars. Preventing community violence and addressing its sequelae may be important for reducing suicides. A multi-pronged strategy consisting of policies, education, and marketing will likely be needed to address the risk of suicide conferred by gun access.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Armour, Micki D.
AU  - Broome, Michael
AU  - Dell’Anna, Giuseppe
AU  - Blades, Natalie J.
AU  - Esson, Douglas W.
TI  - A review of orbital and intracranial magnetic resonance imaging in 79 canine and 13 feline patients (2004–2010)
JO  - Veterinary Ophthalmology
VL  - 14
IS  - 4
SN  - 1463-5216
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1463-5224.2010.00865.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1463-5224.2010.00865.x
SP  - 215
EP  - 226
KW  - canine
KW  - feline
KW  - magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - neoplasia
KW  - optic neuritis
KW  - orbit
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Objective? To review the distribution of orbital and intracranial disease in canine and feline patients undergoing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) following referral to a veterinary ophthalmologist and to correlate results of MRI with pathologic conditions including neoplasia, suspected optic neuritis (ON) and orbital cellulitis. Recognized and emerging imaging techniques are reviewed. Procedure? Medical records of 79 canine and 13 feline patients were reviewed. Results? Neoplasia was diagnosed in 53/92 (57.6%) of patients. The most prevalent types of neoplasia were carcinoma (16/53, 30.1%), sarcoma (11/53, 20.8%), lymphoma (8/53, 15.1%) and presumptive meningioma (9/53, 17.0%). Carcinomas and sarcomas were characterized by bony lysis and intracranial/sinonasal extension. Lymphoma was generally unilateral, less invasive and originated from the ventromedial orbit. Intracranial masses representing presumptive meningiomas frequently exhibited a ?dural tail? sign. Diagnosis of suspected ON was made in 13 of 92 (14.1%) patients. Results of MRI in patients with suspected ON included unilateral optic nerve hyperintensity (3/13, 23.0%), bilateral optic nerve hyperintensity (1/13, 7.7%) and optic chiasmal hyperintensity (3/13, 23.0%). Seven suspected ON patients demonstrated intracranial multifocal patchy contrast enhancement (7/13, 53.8%). Diagnosis of orbital cellulitis was made in 12/92 (13.0%) patients. Conclusions? Orbital neoplasia was the most common pathologic condition detected. Essential Roentgen characteristics are helpful when diagnosing pathologic processes and providing prognoses in cases of orbital or intracranial disease. Magnetic resonance imaging comprises an important diagnostic component in cases of suspected ON. Emerging contrast and functional MRI techniques as well as SI data may increase our ability to characterize disease processes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Waselau, M.
AU  - McKnight, A.
AU  - Kasparek, A.
TI  - Magnetic resonance imaging of equine stifles: Technique and observations in 76 clinical cases
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
JA  - Equine Vet Educ
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 0957-7734
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/eve.13248
DO  - doi:10.1111/eve.13248
KW  - horse
KW  - stifle MRI
KW  - medial and lateral meniscus
KW  - cranial and caudal cruciate ligament
KW  - arthroscopy
AB  - Summary Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of equine stifle disorders is challenging. We describe a routine technique for low-field stifle MRI under general anaesthesia in clinical cases and report the main findings. We hypothesised that MRI can be safely and routinely performed and portray bone and soft-tissue pathology. In this retrospective study, medical records of 76 stifles with positive response to intra-articular anaesthesia without abnormalities on conventional diagnostic imaging were reviewed for breed, age, gender, MRI anaesthesia time and findings. Under anaesthesia, limbs were extended in a rotating MR gantry. Different sequences in several planes were acquired in an average time of 62 min. In all horses, the stifle examinations were successful and complete. Typical MRI lesions included bone marrow lesions, osseous cyst-like lesions, cruciate desmopathy, meniscal tearing or a combination thereof. Retrospective reviewing confirmed that initial radiographic and ultrasonographic images failed to identify these lesions. Surgically accessible lesions were confirmed in arthroscopy if exploration was indicated. However, MRI was useful to estimate extent of cruciate and meniscal pathology as well as bone marrow lesions and bone cystic-like lesions more thoroughly. Our protocol allows for routine stifle MRI, independent of breed, age and gender. Based on our preliminary results, low-field stifle MRI is safe and can delineate bone and soft-tissue pathology. Low-field MRI appears to be a promising approach for better understanding stifle pathology and thus treatment and prognosis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Adams, P.
AU  - Bolus, R.
AU  - Middleton, S.
AU  - Moores, A. P.
AU  - Grierson, J.
TI  - Influence of signalment on developing cranial cruciate rupture in dogs in the UK
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 52
IS  - 7
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2011.01073.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2011.01073.x
SP  - 347
EP  - 352
PY  - 2011
AB  - Objectives: To investigate risk factors associated with cranial cruciate ligament rupture in dogs. Methods: Retrospective case-control study: medical records of a first-opinion veterinary practice were searched for dogs diagnosed with cranial cruciate ligament rupture (1995 to 2007). For each case, six unaffected dogs were randomly selected from all dogs presenting that day for comparison. Multi-variable binary logistic regression was performed to assess the association of variables on likelihood of cruciate rupture. Results: Frequency of cranial cruciate ligament rupture was 1·19% [95% confidence interval (CI) 1·02 to 1.36%]. West Highland white terriers (n=17), Yorkshire terriers (n=14) and Rottweilers (n=11) were at significantly increased risk of cranial cruciate ligament rupture (P≤0·002). Rottweilers were at five times greater risk compared with other pure breeds (OR 5·12, 95% CI 2·281 to 11·494, P<0·001), obesity quadrupled the risk of cranial cruciate ligament rupture (OR 3·756, 95% CI 1·659 to 8·502, P=0·001) and females were twice as likely to suffer cranial cruciate ligament failure compared to males (OR 2·054, 95% CI 1·467 to 2·877, P<0·001). Dogs less than two years old were statistically less likely to sustain cranial cruciate ligament rupture than dogs older than eight years (OR 0·246, 95% CI 0·127 to 0·477, P<0·001). There was no significant difference in median weights (in kilograms) of neutered dogs, compared to their entire counterparts in either the case group (P=0·994) or in the control group (P=0·630). There was also no significant difference in body condition (-underweight/normal weight/overweight/obese) of neutered versus entire dogs among the cases (P=0·243), or the controls (P=0·211). Clinical Significance: Cranial cruciate ligament rupture is more likely in Rottweilers and in female dogs, older dogs and obese dogs. Following multi-variable analysis, it was established that neutering was not associated with increased risk of cranial cruciate ligament rupture.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Blackburn, Patricia Anna
AU  - Decalmer, Peter
TI  - Is ect safe in patients with cerebrovascular disease?
JO  - International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry
JA  - Int. J. Geriat. Psychiatry
VL  - 9
IS  - 9
SN  - 0885-6230
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/gps.930090911
DO  - doi:10.1002/gps.930090911
SP  - 757
EP  - 761
KW  - Electroconvulsive therapy
KW  - ECT
KW  - elderly
KW  - multi-infarct dementia
KW  - delirium
PY  - 1994
AB  - Abstract A 70-year-old man with a history of peripheral vascular disease was treated initially with antidepressants, then bilateral electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) for a depressive illness. Apart from an episode of delirium following ECT he recovered fully. Four years later he relapsed. Low-dose antidepressants caused disorientation and oversedation, as did ECT. Shortly afterwards he developed a multi-infarct state with Parkinsonian symptoms, transient schaemic attacks (TIAs) and cerebrovascular attacks (CVAs). His cognitive deficits implicated pathology in the frontal and subcortical areas of the brain. Postmortem examination confirmed widespread atherosclerotic disease, also cerebrovascular disease. The haemodynamic and cerebral effects of ECT are condidered in the context of vascular disease. It is postulated that ECT given to such patients might cause permanent impairment of cognitive function through ischaemia of an already compromised cerebral circulation. Suggestions are outlined regarding a policy for a more comprehensive assessment of patients with atherosclerotic disease. Deficiencies of ECT procedures are highlighted.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schoch, Kathleen M.
AU  - von Reyn, Catherine R.
AU  - Bian, Jifeng
AU  - Telling, Glenn C.
AU  - Meaney, David F.
AU  - Saatman, Kathryn E.
TI  - Brain injury-induced proteolysis is reduced in a novel calpastatin-overexpressing transgenic mouse
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
JA  - J. Neurochem.
VL  - 125
IS  - 6
SN  - 0022-3042
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jnc.12144
DO  - doi:10.1111/jnc.12144
SP  - 909
EP  - 920
KW  - calcium
KW  - calpain
KW  - CRMP-2
KW  - protease
KW  - sodium channel
KW  - spectrin
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract The calpain family of calcium-dependent proteases has been implicated in a variety of diseases and neurodegenerative pathologies. Prolonged activation of calpains results in proteolysis of numerous cellular substrates including cytoskeletal components and membrane receptors, contributing to cell demise despite coincident expression of calpastatin, the specific inhibitor of calpains. Pharmacological and gene-knockout strategies have targeted calpains to determine their contribution to neurodegenerative pathology; however, limitations associated with treatment paradigms, drug specificity, and genetic disruptions have produced inconsistent results and complicated interpretation. Specific, targeted calpain inhibition achieved by enhancing endogenous calpastatin levels offers unique advantages in studying pathological calpain activation. We have characterized a novel calpastatin-overexpressing transgenic mouse model, demonstrating a substantial increase in calpastatin expression within nervous system and peripheral tissues and associated reduction in protease activity. Experimental activation of calpains via traumatic brain injury resulted in cleavage of α-spectrin, collapsin response mediator protein-2, and voltage-gated sodium channel, critical proteins for the maintenance of neuronal structure and function. Calpastatin overexpression significantly attenuated calpain-mediated proteolysis of these selected substrates acutely following severe controlled cortical impact injury, but with no effect on acute hippocampal neurodegeneration. Augmenting calpastatin levels may be an effective method for calpain inhibition in traumatic brain injury and neurodegenerative disorders.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ryu, Mi
AU  - Migliorini, Adriana
AU  - Miosge, Nicolai
AU  - Gross, Oliver
AU  - Shankland, Stuart
AU  - Brinkkoetter, Paul T
AU  - Hagmann, Henning
AU  - Romagnani, Paola
AU  - Liapis, Helen
AU  - Anders, Hans-Joachim
TI  - Plasma leakage through glomerular basement membrane ruptures triggers the proliferation of parietal epithelial cells and crescent formation in non-inflammatory glomerular injury
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 228
IS  - 4
SN  - 0022-3417
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.4046
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.4046
SP  - 482
EP  - 494
KW  - crescent
KW  - Alport
KW  - glomerulosclerosis
KW  - chronic kidney disease
KW  - parietal epithelial cells
KW  - collagen
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Glomerular crescents are most common in rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis but also occur in non-inflammatory chronic glomerulopathies; thus, factors other than inflammation should trigger crescent formation, eg vascular damage and plasma leakage. Here we report that Alport nephropathy in Col4A3-deficient Sv129 mice is complicated by diffuse and global crescent formation in which proliferating parietal epithelial cells are the predominant cell type. Laminin staining and transmission and acellular scanning electron microscopy of acellular glomeruli documented disruptions and progressive disintegration of the glomerular basement membrane in Col4A3-deficient mice. FITC-dextran perfusion further revealed vascular leakage from glomerular capillaries into Bowman's space, further documented by fibrin deposits in the segmental crescents. Its pathogenic role was validated by showing that the fibrinolytic activity of recombinant urokinase partially prevented crescent formation. In addition, in vitro studies confirmed an additional mitogenic potential of serum on murine and human parietal epithelial cells. Furthermore, loss of parietal cell polarity and unpolarized secretion of extracellular matrix components were evident within fibrocellular crescents. Among 665 human Alport nephropathy biopsies, crescent formation was noted in 0.4%. We conclude that glomerular vascular injury and GBM breaks cause plasma leakage which triggers a wound healing programme involving the proliferation of parietal cells and their loss of polarity. This process can trigger cellular and fibrocellular crescent formation even in the absence of cellular inflammation and rupture of the Bowman's capsule. Copyright ? 2012 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pader, Karine
AU  - Freeman, Lynetta J.
AU  - Constable, Peter D.
AU  - Wu, Ching C.
AU  - Snyder, Paul W.
AU  - Lescun, Timothy B.
TI  - Comparison of Transvaginal Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES®) and Laparoscopy for Elective Bilateral Ovariectomy in Standing Mares
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 40
IS  - 8
SN  - 0161-3499
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1532-950X.2011.00877.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1532-950X.2011.00877.x
SP  - 998
EP  - 1008
PY  - 2011
AB  - Objective To compare surgical trauma, perioperative pain, surgical time, and complication rate in mares undergoing standing bilateral ovariectomy by natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) or laparoscopy. Study Design Experimental study. Animals Healthy mares (n = 12). Methods Ovariectomy was performed with a vessel-sealing device by transvaginal NOTES (n = 6) using a flexible endoscope and specialized instruments or by bilateral flank laparoscopy (n = 6). Preoperative and postoperative complete blood count (CBC), plasma fibrinogen concentration, serum amyloid A concentration, peritoneal nucleated cell count, and total protein concentration were compared using repeated measures ANOVA. Surgical times were compared using an unpaired t-test. Mares were monitored for 2 weeks postoperatively and necropsy was performed at 3 weeks (n = 6) or 3 months (n = 6) to assess short- and medium-term effects of each procedure. Complication rate, necropsy, and bacteriology findings were compared using a Fishers exact test. Significance was set at P < .05. Results All surgical procedures were performed successfully and all but one laparoscopy mare were bright, alert, and maintained a good appetite until euthanasia. Mean ± SD surgical time was similar between groups (NOTES: 100 ± 40 minutes; laparoscopy: 107 ± 47 minutes). There were no significant temporal differences in vital parameters, CBC, plasma fibrinogen concentration, serum amyloid A concentration, peritoneal nucleated cell count, and total protein concentration between groups. Conclusions Bilateral ovariectomy by transvaginal NOTES or laparoscopy resulted in minimal inflammation and surgical trauma.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Murthy, Vijayashree
AU  - Chamberlain, Ronald S.
TI  - Defining a Place for Nipple Sparing Mastectomy in Modern Breast Care: An Evidence Based Review
JO  - The Breast Journal
VL  - 19
IS  - 6
SN  - 1075-122X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1524-4741.2011.01220.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1524-4741.2011.01220.x
SP  - 571
EP  - 581
KW  - breast conserving surgery
KW  - NAC preservation
KW  - nipple sparing mastectomy
KW  - Skin sparing mastectomy
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract:? Breast cancer is a diverse disease that requires a fully integrated multidisciplinary approach. Breast surgery has undergone a revolutionary change leading us from the conventional radical mastectomy of the Halstedian era to the current motion of nipple sparing mastectomy (NSM). Despite the lack of randomized controlled trials, the technique of NSM continues to gain popularity as a prophylactic procedure in high risk patients. The current indications for NSM, if any, in the treatment of early invasive breast cancer remains uncertain and requires rigorous scientific scrutiny. This article aims to critically review the indications and limitations of NSM, discuss evidence based intra-operative protocols and to discuss ways in which radiation therapy may be incorporated in treatment planning following NSM. A comprehensive search of the scientific literature was carried out using PubMed to access all publications related to nipple sparing mastectomy. The search focused specifically on technique, current management, safety, and complications of these procedures. Keywords searched included ?Nipple sparing mastectomy,??breast conserving surgery,??Nipple areola complex preservation? and ?skin sparing mastectomy.? NSM offers an opportunity to preserve native breast envelope without mutilation of nipple-areola complex (NAC), and avoids multiple surgical procedures required for reconstruction. NSM may be a reasonable alternative for prophylactic and select breast cancer patients without NAC involvement; however, oncological safety of NSM has not yet been fully demonstrated. Best available evidence suggests that patients should be selected based on study of breast duct anatomy by breast Magnetic Resonance Imaging, mammographic distance between tumor and nipple and obligatory intra-operative frozen section from retro-areolar tissue. Additional factors such as tumor size, axillary lymph node status, lymphovascular invasion and degree of intraductal component are also being used to either include or exclude NSM candidates based on institutional protocols. Heterogeneity of patients selected for NSM is great and the lack of standardization of preoperative investigations, intra-operative technique and pathologic sampling of retro-areola tissues mandates a multi-institutional prospective study to define and validate a role for NSM in invasive breast cancer and DCIS. Nipple necrosis or sloughing is an important problem after NSM which can be greatly reduced using alternative skin incisions. Even if the nipple survives, an insensate nipple and lack of sexual function is common and requires preoperative counseling and discussion. Finally the relation and timing of intra-operative versus adjuvant breast radiation and tailoring of dosage and delivery methods has not been fully explored. Although NSM reduces the psychological trauma associated with nipple loss, the oncologic safety as well as functional and aesthetic outcomes needs additional investigation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ashkar, Laila
AU  - Omeroglu, Atilla
AU  - Halwani, Fawaz
AU  - AlSharif, Shaza
AU  - Loutfi, Antoine
AU  - Mesurolle, Benoît
TI  - Post-traumatic Neuroma Following Breast Surgery
JO  - The Breast Journal
JA  - Breast J
VL  - 19
IS  - 6
SN  - 1075-122X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tbj.12186
DO  - doi:10.1111/tbj.12186
SP  - 671
EP  - 672
PY  - 2013
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gregory, Laura S.
AU  - Jones, Lee V.
AU  - Amorosi, Natasha M.
TI  - Assessing the fusion of the ischiopubic synchondrosis using predictive modeling
JO  - Clinical Anatomy
JA  - Clin. Anat.
VL  - 32
IS  - 6
SN  - 0897-3806
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ca.23345
DO  - doi:10.1002/ca.23345
SP  - 851
EP  - 859
KW  - pediatrics
KW  - pelvis
KW  - ischium
KW  - pubic bone
KW  - ossification
KW  - x-ray computed tomography
KW  - children
PY  - 2019
AB  - Flaring of the ischiopubic synchondrosis at the time of fusion is a common clinical observation in pediatrics and represents a normal physiological process in skeletal maturation. When presenting unilaterally, this flaring can mimic a range of serious pathological conditions such as osteomyelitis, osteal tumors, and traumatic injury. An improved understanding of ischiopubic synchondrosis fusion is therefore critical to avoid potential misdiagnosis. Retrospective multi-slice computed tomography pelvic scans of Australian individuals aged neonate to 24?years (n?=?184) were assessed using a novel five stage morphological classification system of the maturation and fusion of the ischiopubic synchondrosis. Maturation scoring was conducted using both multiplanar formatting views and volume-rendered reconstructions in OsiriX?. Maturational stage was strongly related to age (P?<?0.001) with fusion of the ischiopubic synchondrosis observed between the ages of 4 and 9 years in females and 7 and 13?years for males. The highest probability of fusion in our Queensland Australian population based on multinomial regression predictive modeling was between 7 and 10 years of age. We documented three variants of fusion: pubic and ischial outgrowths, appearance of a secondary ossification center, and a fusiform-shaped enlargement. This study provides the first predictive modeling of the timing of fusion of the ischiopubic synchondrosis using a reliable morphological classification system. The significant variation in timing and progression of fusion of the ischiopubic synchondrosis reported in this study, will aid in minimizing misdiagnosis and unnecessary treatment in children presenting with asymmetrical or delayed ischiopubic synchondrosis anomalies. Clin. Anat. 32:851?859, 2019. ? 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 
