
TY  - JOUR
AU  - De Vries, E.
AU  - Clinical Working Party of the European Society for Immunodeficiencies (ESID)
TI  - Patient-centred screening for primary immunodeficiency: a multi-stage diagnostic protocol designed for non-immunologists
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
VL  - 145
IS  - 2
SN  - 0009-9104
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2249.2006.03138.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2249.2006.03138.x
SP  - 204
EP  - 214
KW  - diagnostic protocol
KW  - immunological evaluation
KW  - primary immunodeficiency
PY  - 2006
AB  - Summary Efficient early identification of primary immunodeficiency disease (PID) is important for prognosis, but is not an easy task for non-immunologists. The Clinical Working Party of the European Society for Immunodeficiencies (ESID) has composed a multi-stage diagnostic protocol that is based on expert opinion, in order to increase the awareness of PID among doctors working in different fields. The protocol starts from the clinical presentation of the patient; immunological skills are not needed for its use. The multi-stage design allows cost-effective screening for PID within the large pool of potential cases in all hospitals in the early phases, while more expensive tests are reserved for definitive classification in collaboration with an immunologist at a later stage. Although many PIDs present in childhood, others may present at any age. The protocols presented here are therefore aimed at both adult physicians and paediatricians. While designed for use throughout Europe, there will be national differences which may make modification of this generic algorithm necessary.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Thompson, James
AU  - Chung, Man Cheung
AU  - Jackson, Gary
AU  - Rosser, Rachel
TI  - A comparative trial of psychotherapy in the treatment of post-trauma stress reactions
JO  - Clinical Psychology & Psychotherapy
JA  - Clin. Psychol. Psychother.
VL  - 2
IS  - 3
SN  - 1063-3995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cpp.5640020304
DO  - doi:10.1002/cpp.5640020304
SP  - 168
EP  - 176
PY  - 1995
AB  - Abstract Forty-two patients with post-traumatic stress reactions were assessed 40 weeks after the traumatic event and given either an immediate (n = 29) or delayed (n = 13) eight sessions of psychotherapy. The patients in the delayed condition improved somewhat during the waiting list period, but at the end of treatment the two conditions were not significantly different. However, treatment gains were a little higher in the immediate group, with up to a 32% reduction in symptoms. There were no significant differences between therapists. The rate of improvement while under therapy was much higher than while awaiting assessment. Improvements were greatest for those with high Psychoticism and Obsessive Compulsive scores.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Robinson, Claire
AU  - Eisma, Roos
AU  - Morgan, Bruno
AU  - Jeffery, Amanda
AU  - Graham, Eleanor A. M.
AU  - Black, Sue
AU  - Rutty, Guy N.
TI  - Anthropological Measurement of Lower Limb and Foot Bones Using Multi-Detector Computed Tomography
JO  - Journal of Forensic Sciences
VL  - 53
IS  - 6
SN  - 0022-1198
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1556-4029.2008.00875.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1556-4029.2008.00875.x
SP  - 1289
EP  - 1295
KW  - forensic science
KW  - radiology
KW  - computed tomography
KW  - anthropology
KW  - tibia
KW  - talus
KW  - calcaneus
KW  - tele-anthro-radiology
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract:? Anthropological examination of defleshed bones is the gold standard for osteological measurement in forensic practice. However, multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT) offers the opportunity of three-dimensional imaging of skeletal elements, allowing measurement of bones in any plane without defleshing. We present our experiences of the examination of 15 human lower limbs in different states of decomposition using MDCT. We present our method of imaging and radiological measurement of the bones including sex assessment. The radiological measurements were undertaken by three professional groups?anthropology, radiology, and forensic pathology?both at the site of scanning and at a remote site. The results were compared to anthropological oestological assessment of the defleshed bones. We discuss the limitations of this technique and the potential applications of our observations. We introduce the concept of remote radiological anthropological measurement of bones, so-called tele-anthro-radiology and the role that this could play in providing the facility for standardization of protocols, international peer review and quality assurance schemes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gillies, Donna
AU  - Taylor, Fiona
AU  - Gray, Carl
AU  - O'Brien, Louise
AU  - D'Abrew, Natalie
TI  - Psychological therapies for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder in children and adolescents (Review)
JO  - Evidence-Based Child Health: A Cochrane Review Journal
JA  - Evid.‐Based Child Health
VL  - 8
IS  - 3
SN  - 1557-6272
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ebch.1916
DO  - doi:10.1002/ebch.1916
SP  - 1004
EP  - 1116
KW  - Cognitive Therapy
KW  - Psychotherapy [*methods]
KW  - Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic
KW  - Stress Disorders, Post-Traumatic [psychology; *therapy]
KW  - Adolescent
KW  - Child
KW  - Child, Preschool
KW  - Female
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Background Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is highly prevalent in children and adolescents who have experienced trauma and has high personal and health costs. Although a wide range of psychological therapies have been used in the treatment of PTSD there are no systematic reviews of these therapies in children and adolescents. Objectives To examine the effectiveness of psychological therapies in treating children and adolescents who have been diagnosed with PTSD. Search methods We searched the Cochrane Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Review Group's Specialised Register (CCDANCTR) to December 2011. The CCDANCTR includes relevant randomised controlled trials from the following bibliographic databases: CENTRAL (the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials) (all years), EMBASE (1974 -), MEDLINE (1950 -) and PsycINFO (1967 -). We also checked reference lists of relevant studies and reviews. We applied no date or language restrictions. Selection criteria All randomised controlled trials of psychological therapies compared to a control, pharmacological therapy or other treatments in children or adolescents exposed to a traumatic event or diagnosed with PTSD. Data collection and analysis Two members of the review group independently extracted data. If differences were identified, they were resolved by consensus, or referral to the review team. We calculated the odds ratio (OR) for binary outcomes, the standardised mean difference (SMD) for continuous outcomes, and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for both, using a fixed-effect model. If heterogeneity was found we used a random-effects model. Main results Fourteen studies including 758 participants were included in this review. The types of trauma participants had been exposed to included sexual abuse, civil violence, natural disaster, domestic violence and motor vehicle accidents. Most participants were clients of a trauma-related support service. The psychological therapies used in these studies were cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), exposure-based, psychodynamic, narrative, supportive counselling, and eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing (EMDR). Most compared a psychological therapy to a control group. No study compared psychological therapies to pharmacological therapies alone or as an adjunct to a psychological therapy. Across all psychological therapies, improvement was significantly better (three studies, n = 80, OR 4.21, 95% CI 1.12 to 15.85) and symptoms of PTSD (seven studies, n = 271, SMD -0.90, 95% CI -1.24 to -0.42), anxiety (three studies, n = 91, SMD -0.57, 95% CI -1.00 to -0.13) and depression (five studies, n = 156, SMD -0.74, 95% CI -1.11 to -0.36) were significantly lower within a month of completing psychological therapy compared to a control group. The psychological therapy for which there was the best evidence of effectiveness was CBT. Improvement was significantly better for up to a year following treatment (up to one month: two studies, n = 49, OR 8.64, 95% CI 2.01 to 37.14; up to one year: one study, n = 25, OR 8.00, 95% CI 1.21 to 52.69). PTSD symptom scores were also significantly lower for up to one year (up to one month: three studies, n = 98, SMD -1.34, 95% CI -1.79 to -0.89; up to one year: one study, n = 36, SMD -0.73, 95% CI -1.44 to -0.01), and depression scores were lower for up to a month (three studies, n = 98, SMD -0.80, 95% CI -1.47 to -0.13) in the CBT group compared to a control. No adverse effects were identified. No study was rated as a high risk for selection or detection bias but a minority were rated as a high risk for attrition, reporting and other bias. Most included studies were rated as an unclear risk for selection, detection and attrition bias. Authors' conclusions There is evidence for the effectiveness of psychological therapies, particularly CBT, for treating PTSD in children and adolescents for up to a month following treatment. At this stage, there is no clear evidence for the effectiveness of one psychological therapy compared to others. There is also not enough evidence to conclude that children and adolescents with particular types of trauma are more or less likely to respond to psychological therapies than others. The findings of this review are limited by the potential for methodological biases, and the small number and generally small size of identified studies. In addition, there was evidence of substantial heterogeneity in some analyses which could not be explained by subgroup or sensitivity analyses. More evidence is required for the effectiveness of all psychological therapies more than one month after treatment. Much more evidence is needed to demonstrate the relative effectiveness of different psychological therapies or the effectiveness of psychological therapies compared to other treatments. More details are required in future trials in regards to the types of trauma that preceded the diagnosis of PTSD and whether the traumas are single event or ongoing. Future studies should also aim to identify the most valid and reliable measures of PTSD symptoms and ensure that all scores, total and sub-scores, are consistently reported. Plain Language Summary Psychological therapies for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder in children and adolescents Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is highly prevalent in children and adolescents who have experienced trauma and has high personal and health costs. The aim of this review was to examine the effectiveness of all psychological therapies for the treatment of PTSD in children and adolescents.  We searched for all randomised controlled trials comparing psychological therapies to a control, other psychological therapies or other therapies for the treatment of PTSD in children and adolescents aged 3 to 18 years. We identified 14 studies with a total of 758 participants. The types of trauma related to the PTSD were sexual abuse, civil violence, natural disaster, domestic violence and motor vehicle accidents. Most participants were clients of a trauma-related support service. The psychological therapies used in the included studies were cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), exposure-based, psychodynamic, narrative, supportive counselling, and eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing (EMDR). Most included studies compared a psychological therapy to a control group. No study compared psychological therapies to medications or medications in combination with a psychological therapy. There was fair evidence for the effectiveness of psychological therapies, particularly CBT, for the treatment of PTSD in children and adolescents for up to a month following treatment. More evidence is required for the effectiveness of psychological therapies in the longer term and to be able to compare the effectiveness of one psychological therapy to another. The findings of this review are limited by the potential for bias in the included studies, possible differences between studies which could not be identified, the small number of identified studies and the low number of participants in most studies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Peterson, Nathan W.
AU  - Buote, Nicole J.
AU  - Barr, James W.
TI  - The impact of surgical timing and intervention on outcome in traumatized dogs and cats
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
JA  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 25
IS  - 1
SN  - 1479-3261
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vec.12279
DO  - doi:10.1111/vec.12279
SP  - 63
EP  - 75
KW  - damage control surgery
KW  - multiple organ failure
KW  - trauma
KW  - “2-hit theory”
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Objective To review the relevant human and veterinary literature regarding the timing of surgical intervention for trauma patients and the impact on outcome. Data Sources Original research, clinical studies, and review articles with no date restrictions from both human and veterinary literature. Human Data Synthesis Despite extensive research into the ideal timing of surgical intervention for human trauma victims, debate is ongoing and views are still evolving. Prior to the 1970s, the standard of care consisted of delayed surgical treatment, as these patients were considered too ill to undergo surgery. Beginning in the 1970s, and continuing for nearly 2 decades, early definitive surgical treatment was recommended. The most recent evolution of human trauma management incorporates the concept of damage control surgery, which acknowledges the importance of early skeletal stabilization or laparotomy for reducing morbidity while attempting to avoid complications such as acute respiratory distress syndrome or multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. Veterinary Data Synthesis Despite a relatively large amount of literature available regarding veterinary trauma, no evidence exists to provide the clinician guidance as to the ideal timing of surgery for trauma patients. With the exception of diaphragmatic hernia, no studies were identified that attempted to evaluate this variable. Conclusions Veterinary-specific studies are needed to evaluate the impact of surgical timing on outcome following trauma. The information that can be obtained from studies in this area can improve veterinary trauma care and may be used as models for human trauma care through translational applications.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Moule, AJ
AU  - Moule, CA
TI  - The endodontic management of traumatized permanent anterior teeth: a review
JO  - Australian Dental Journal
VL  - 52
IS  - s1
SN  - 0045-0421
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1834-7819.2007.tb00520.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1834-7819.2007.tb00520.x
SP  - S122
EP  - S137
KW  - Dental trauma
KW  - review
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract Despite the many journal articles and reviews that have been published regarding the treatment of trauma to teeth, the endodontic management of these injuries is often still not fully understood. The purpose of this review is to establish clear and up-to-date guidelines for practitioners who are faced with treating dental injuries on a day-to-day basis, based on an assessment of current available scientific information relating to the endodontic management of these injuries. Treatment is discussed under the headings: infractions, uncomplicated crown fractures, complicated crown fractures, crown-root fractures, root fractures, luxation injuries, avulsion, root resorption, pulp canal obliteration and open-apex teeth. Emphasis is placed on the treatment of traumatized immature teeth where maintenance of pulp blood supply is important to encourage continued development of the root system. Only the treatment of traumatized permanent anterior teeth is reviewed. Information contained in this article is based on a review of the literature on dental trauma which involved a MEDLINE search using the key words ?dental trauma? and the individual topics listed above. The guidelines produced by the International Association of Dental Traumatology, the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry and the American Association of Endodontists were also reviewed and the recommendations contained in this paper are in concert with the major recommendations of these bodies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wasilko, Scott M.
AU  - Tourville, Timothy W.
AU  - DeSarno, Michael J.
AU  - Slauterbeck, James R.
AU  - Johnson, Robert J.
AU  - Struglics, André
AU  - Beynnon, Bruce D.
TI  - Relationship between synovial fluid biomarkers of articular cartilage metabolism and the patient's perspective of outcome depends on the severity of articular cartilage damage following ACL trauma
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res. 
VL  - 34
IS  - 5
SN  - 0736-0266
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.23084
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.23084
SP  - 820
EP  - 827
PY  - 2016
AB  - ABSTRACT Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) trauma often occurs in combination with injury to the articular cartilage of the knee, this can result in earlier radiographic evidence of post traumatic osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee compared to the contralateral, ACL intact knee; however, the biomechanical and biological mechanisms associated with the onset and progression of this disease are not understood. We sought to gain insight into the mechanisms by determining the relationship between articular cartilage injury associated with ACL trauma and the expression of synovial fluid biomarkers of articular cartilage metabolism, and to evaluate the relationship between these biomarkers and the patient's perspective of the outcomes. Synovial fluid samples were acquired from 39 ACL injured subjects at an average of 10 weeks after injury, and 32 control subjects with normal knees (documented with clinical exam and MRI assessment). Subjects in the ACL-injured group were classified as low-risk for future OA if they displayed an International Cartilage Repair Society (ICRS) Grade 2 articular cartilage lesion or less and high-risk for future OA if they had an ICRS Grade 3A articular cartilage lesion. The patient's perspective of the injury was evaluated with the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score (KOOS). There were no significant differences in mean concentrations of the markers of type II collagen metabolism (CPII, C2C, and C1,2C) or the aggrecan breakdown Alanine?Arginine?Glycine?Serine (ARGS) -fragment between control subjects and the subjects in the low- and high-risk groups (p-value range: 0.80?0.43). Associations between ARGS-aggrecan concentration and KOOS subscales of symptoms and pain were significantly different between the low- and high-risk groups (p?=?0.03 and p?=?0.01, respectively). Likewise, there was strong evidence in support of an association between the markers of type II collagen metabolism (C1,2C and CPII concentrations) and the KOOS subscale of pain between the low- and high-risk groups (p?=?0.051 and 0.077, correspondingly). In ACL injured subjects with concomitant Grade 3A articular cartilage injuries, concentrations of synovial fluid ARGS-aggrecan were directly associated with improvements in KOOS symptoms and pain. These findings suggest the possible involvement of ARGS-aggrecan in a localized tissue repair response involving an increase in aggrecan turnover following severe knee trauma. ? 2015 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 34:820?827, 2016.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Neely, Edward T.
AU  - Midgette, Lynn A.
AU  - Scher, Ann I.
TI  - Clinical Review and Epidemiology of Headache Disorders in US Service Members: With Emphasis on Post-traumatic Headache
JO  - Headache: The Journal of Head and Face Pain
VL  - 49
IS  - 7
SN  - 0017-8748
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1526-4610.2009.001460.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1526-4610.2009.001460.x
SP  - 1089
EP  - 1096
KW  - post-traumatic headache
KW  - cervicogenic headache
KW  - post-traumatic stress disorder
KW  - botulinum toxin
PY  - 2009
AB  - Migraine or headache is a common problem in the active duty population, in the recently deployed service members, and is a cardinal symptom of traumatic brain injury. While there is increasing appreciation of the clinical burden of post-traumatic headache (PTHA) in the military traumatic brain injury population, there remain significant research gaps related to the epidemiology of PTHA, including lack of understanding of natural history, whether there are predisposing factors that predict the development or prognosis of headache post trauma and, most basically, the features that distinguish PTHA from other forms of chronic headache. Although diagnostic criteria for PTHA are included in the International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2nd edition, revised, these criteria are somewhat arbitrary and were not empirically defined. This lack of precision about the PTHA phenotype limits the rigor of observational studies of PTH but does not appear to significantly hamper treatment, provided the treatment involves a multi-modality approach.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vannier, M
TI  - TU-A-201C-01: Multi-Modality Imaging: Current State of the Art
JO  - Medical Physics
JA  - Med. Phys.
VL  - 37
IS  - 6Part2
SN  - 0094-2405
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3469173
DO  - doi:10.1118/1.3469173
SP  - 3371
EP  - 3371
KW  - Computed tomography
KW  - Medical imaging
KW  - Ultrasonography
KW  - Magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - Positron emission tomography
KW  - Dosimetry
KW  - Single photon emission computed tomography
KW  - Functional monitoring and imaging
KW  - Fluoroscopy
KW  - Medical treatment planning
PY  - 2010
AB  - Computed tomography is the cornerstone of modern radiology and arguably the most important modality in terms of clinical impact. CT is used extensively for emergencies, cardiovascular, pulmonary, gastrointestinal, endocrine, neurological, orthopedic and other applications - often as the first and only imaging procedure needed for diagnosis, characterization, staging, treatment planning, and follow-up. CT is often the first and only modality needed. There is high likelihood that a patient will have a CT scan in the emergency department, as an outpatient, or as an inpatient for a multitude of indications - trauma, suspected infection or malignancy, and frequently to investigate symptoms such as pain and fever, or to answer a question raised by another test, such as an EKG abnormality or ultrasound finding. Many other modalities are available, including MRI, ultrasound, fluoroscopy and nuclear medicine PET and SPECT. Depending on the clinical question, more than one modality may be required, so questions raised in a CT exam could be resolved with PET or MRI. Each modality has strengths and limitations which are known and recognized relative to the clinical indication. Since pre-certification may be required by payors prior to imaging, these indications are important for reimbursement. The principal drivers for clinical imaging, both single and multi-modality today are reimbursement, radiation dose, workflow efficiency, and availability. Multimodality imaging is most frequently applied to solve complex or demanding clinical problems, and almost never used for screening. A major advantage of CT in hospitals and clinics as well as free-standing imaging centers, is its availability 24/7, while other modalities such as US and MRI may be limited to scheduled examinations in the majority of cases. Multimodality scanners based on CT incorporate PET/SPECT and MRI to combine morphologic and functional imaging. The most demanding imaging applications are cardiovascular, where complex motion and small morphologic features coexist, so imaging methods that are very satisfactory elsewhere in the body may not be successful. Clinical CT scanning consists of administering toxic materials, e.g., contrast media, while monitoring the EKG and illuminating the body with high brightness x-rays. Larger area detectors and higher acquisition rates are welcome improvements, but don't solve all of the problems encountered with scan variability due to respiratory, whole body, and cardiac motion, especially in a spectrum of patients from infant to massively obese adult sizes (< 1 kg to 250 kg or more). The challenges and pitfalls in CT and multimodality imaging will be delineated and evaluated relative to current and future technology. Learning Objectives: 1. The role of x-ray computed tomography (CT) is central to multimodality imaging in diagnosis, staging, treatment planning and follow-up. 2. The principal drivers for CT and complementary use of other modalities are availability, reimbursement, workflow, and radiation dose. The influence of these factors on clinical decision making will be outlined and illustrated. 3. The limitations of a single modality, such as CT, can be overcome by integrating complementary instrumentation, especially PET/SPECT, MRI and others (such as ultrasound and fluoroscopy) to provide simultaneous morphologic and functional imaging.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kakimoto, Yu
AU  - Nishimura, Yukika
AU  - Hara, Naomi
AU  - Okada, Motohiro
AU  - Tanii, Hisashi
AU  - Okazaki, Yuji
TI  - Intrasubject reproducibility of prefrontal cortex activities during a verbal fluency task over two repeated sessions using multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy
JO  - Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences
VL  - 63
IS  - 4
SN  - 1323-1316
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-1819.2009.01988.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1440-1819.2009.01988.x
SP  - 491
EP  - 499
KW  - near-infrared spectroscopy
KW  - prefrontal cortex
KW  - reproducibility
KW  - test–retest reliability
KW  - verbal fluency task
PY  - 2009
AB  - Aim:? To determine whether intrasubject reproducibility could be observed in the frontal cortex and to assess the mental-health status of subjects in each session. Methods:? We measured changes in oxygenated hemoglobin concentration ([oxy-Hb]) during a letter version of the verbal fluency task using near-infrared spectroscopy imaging in twenty healthy adults over two sessions approximately two months apart. Additionally, the mental-health status of the subjects in each session was evaluated according to the State?Trait Anxiety Inventory, the Zung Self-rating Depression Scale, the Profile of Mood States, and the revised edition of the Neuroticism?Extroversion?Openness Personality Inventory. The association between those scores and [oxy-Hb] changes during the verbal fluency task in each session was investigated. Results:? Performance on the verbal fluency task was about equal across the two sessions, and frontal activation during the task was observed globally in approximately the same region. In the test?retest reliability, acceptable values were shown in both the Intraclass Correlation Coefficients of the mean [oxy-Hb] changes and the correlation coefficients of the whole waveforms for each subject in the two sessions. Mental-health status as measured by several questionnaires was within the healthy range, and no correlation with the frontal activation was seen, except in several channels. Conclusion:? The current results suggest that the measurement experience exerted very little influence, except for in a very small region. In addition, the intrasubject reproducibility of frontal activation measured by multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy was well demonstrated in mentally healthy subjects at intervals of two months.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Berkowitz, Steven J.
AU  - Stover, Carla Smith
AU  - Marans, Steven R.
TI  - The Child and Family Traumatic Stress Intervention: Secondary prevention for youth at risk of developing PTSD
JO  - Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry
VL  - 52
IS  - 6
SN  - 0021-9630
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-7610.2010.02321.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1469-7610.2010.02321.x
SP  - 676
EP  - 685
KW  - Trauma
KW  - prevention
KW  - family
PY  - 2011
AB  - Objective:? This pilot study evaluated the effectiveness of a four-session, caregiver?child Intervention, the Child and Family Traumatic Stress Intervention (CFTSI), to prevent the development of chronic posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) provided within 30 days of exposure to a potentially traumatic event (PTE). Method:? One-hundred seventy-six 7 to 17-year-old youth were recruited through telephone screening based on report of one new distressing posttraumatic stress symptom after a PTE. Of those, 106 youth were randomly assigned to the Intervention (n = 53) or a four-session supportive Comparison condition (N = 53). Group differences in symptom severity were assessed using repeated measures with mixed effects models of intervention group, time, and the interaction of intervention and time. Logistic regression analyses were performed to assess treatment condition and any subsequent traumas experienced as predictors for full and partial PTSD diagnosis at 3-month follow-up. An exploratory chi-square analysis was performed to examine the differences in PTSD symptom criteria B, C, and D at follow-up. Results:? At baseline, youth in both groups had similar demographics, past trauma exposures and symptom severity. At follow-up, the Intervention group demonstrated significantly fewer full and partial PTSD diagnoses than the Comparison group on a standardized diagnostic measure of PTSD. Also, there was a significant group by time interaction for Trauma Symptom Checklist for Children?s Posttraumatic Stress and Anxiety Indices as the CFTSI group had significantly lower posttraumatic and anxiety scores than the Comparison group. Conclusions:? The results suggest that a caregiver?youth, brief preventative early intervention for youth exposed to a PTE is a promising approach to preventing chronic PTSD.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - KIRKHAM, JANET D.
AU  - WATTS, H. DOUG
TI  - The Influence of Plant Profitability on Plant Closures in Multi-locational Firms
JO  - Growth and Change
VL  - 28
IS  - 4
SN  - 0017-4815
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1468-2257.00067
DO  - doi:10.1111/1468-2257.00067
SP  - 459
EP  - 474
PY  - 1997
AB  - ABSTRACT This paper explores the effect of plant profitability on the closure decision in multi-locational manufacturing firms where the firm is selecting between different sites undertaking similar production activities. The paper draws upon a new interview survey of large multi-locational manufacturing firms. Analysis of the interview data shows that plant profitability is the key to understanding only one-third to one-half of selective closures and that decisions taken by subsidiaries are more likely to rely on plant profitability measures than decisions taken at the corporate head office. In analyzing a regional economy, a poor level of plant profitability is indicative of a plant at risk of closure but the absence of such a characteristic is not necessarily an indication of an assured future for a plant.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ebert, Lars Christian
AU  - Ptacek, Wolfgang
AU  - Naether, Silvio
AU  - Fürst, Martin
AU  - Ross, Steffen
AU  - Buck, Ursula
AU  - Weber, Stefan
AU  - Thali, Michael
TI  - Virtobot—a multi-functional robotic system for 3D surface scanning and automatic post mortem biopsy
JO  - The International Journal of Medical Robotics and Computer Assisted Surgery
JA  - Int. J. Med. Robotics Comput. Assist. Surg.
VL  - 6
IS  - 1
SN  - 1478-5951
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rcs.285
DO  - doi:10.1002/rcs.285
SP  - 18
EP  - 27
KW  - virtopsy
KW  - robotics
KW  - biopsy
KW  - surface scanning
KW  - photogrammetry
KW  - post mortem
KW  - autopsy
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Background The Virtopsy project, a multi-disciplinary project that involves forensic science, diagnostic imaging, computer science, automation technology, telematics and biomechanics, aims to develop new techniques to improve the outcome of forensic investigations. This paper presents a new approach in the field of minimally invasive virtual autopsy for a versatile robotic system that is able to perform three-dimensional (3D) surface scans as well as post mortem image-guided soft tissue biopsies. Methods The system consists of an industrial six-axis robot with additional extensions (i.e. a linear axis to increase working space, a tool-changing system and a dedicated safety system), a multi-slice CT scanner with equipment for angiography, a digital photogrammetry and 3D optical surface-scanning system, a 3D tracking system, and a biopsy end effector for automatic needle placement. A wax phantom was developed for biopsy accuracy tests. Results Surface scanning times were significantly reduced (scanning times cut in half, calibration three times faster). The biopsy module worked with an accuracy of 3.2 mm. Discussion Using the Virtobot, the surface-scanning procedure could be standardized and accelerated. The biopsy module is accurate enough for use in biopsies in a forensic setting. Conclusion The Virtobot can be utilized for several independent tasks in the field of forensic medicine, and is sufficiently versatile to be adapted to different tasks in the future. Copyright ? 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Burgess, B. A.
AU  - Bauknecht, K.
AU  - Slovis, N. M.
AU  - Morley, P. S.
TI  - Factors associated with equine shedding of multi-drug-resistant Salmonella enterica and its impact on health outcomes
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 50
IS  - 5
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12823
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12823
SP  - 616
EP  - 623
KW  - horse
KW  - infection control
KW  - biosecurity
KW  - microbiology
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary Background Salmonella enterica is an important cause of healthcare-associated infections in veterinary hospitals ? with outbreaks of multi-drug resistant (MDR) Salmonella among equine cases resulting in high case fatality rates and substantial financial cost. Objectives Study objectives were to 1) investigate factors associated with shedding of MDR-Salmonella enterica and 2) evaluate the effect shedding may have on health outcomes of previously hospitalised horses and their stablemates. Study design Retrospective case?control study with prospective cohort study. Methods Analysis of medical records (N = 373; 94 culture positive, 279 culture negative) was undertaken to determine factors associated with shedding of MDR-Salmonella. Additionally, a follow-up study was conducted to assess long-term outcomes associated with shedding among previously hospitalised horses and their stablemates. Data regarding exposures of interest were collected retrospectively from medical records. Information on long-term outcomes was obtained by phone interview of owners. Multivariable regression techniques were used to investigate factors associated with shedding and subsequent health outcomes. Results Horses experiencing diarrhoea during hospitalisation were more likely to shed Salmonella (OR 1.88; 95% CI 1.02, 3.45) compared with horses without diarrhoea, but isolates tended to be susceptible strains. Antimicrobial therapy during hospitalisation was not associated with shedding or recovery of MDR strains. Shedding did not increase long-term risk for non-survival, colic or abnormal faeces after hospital discharge; nor increase risk for hospitalisation or occurrence of abnormal faeces in stablemates. Main limitations Data collection was reliant upon the quality of medical records and owner recall, which may have led to information bias. The study population was derived from central Kentucky and may differ from horse populations in other regions. Conclusions and clinical importance In general, Salmonella shedding was not associated with decreased average survival times or impacts to health of stablemates, perhaps due to owner implemented biosecurity precautions. Regardless, recently hospitalised horses should be segregated after discharge, in addition to employing rigorous hygiene practices. The Summary is available in Spanish ? see Supporting Information.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mas, A.
AU  - Blackwood, L.
AU  - Cripps, P.
AU  - Murphy, S.
AU  -             De Vos, J.
AU  - Dervisis, N.
AU  - Martano, M.
AU  - Polton, G. A.
TI  - Canine tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma – a multi-centre retrospective review of 44 clinical cases
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 52
IS  - 7
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2011.01075.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2011.01075.x
SP  - 359
EP  - 364
PY  - 2011
AB  - Objectives: To review the presenting clinical signs, treatment and survival of dogs with tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma and, if possible, to identify useful prognostic indicators. Methods: Medical records of 44 dogs were reviewed retrospectively. Clinical signs, clinical stage, time of diagnosis, treatment and outcome were recorded. Data were analysed using the Kaplan-Meier, log-rank, Student's t test, Kruskal-Wallis test and Chi-square/Fisher Exact test as appropriate. Results: The most frequent clinical signs were cough (12 dogs, 27%), enlarged lymph nodes (11 dogs, 25%) and dysphagia (11 dogs, 25%). Anorexia and lethargy were less common but were significantly associated with a poor outcome. No matter what treatment modalities were used, survival times were short and median survival time for all the dogs in the study was 179 days. However, there were a small number of long-term survivors. Clinical Significance: Dogs with tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma that suffered anorexia and lethargy had shorter survival times than patients without these clinical signs. Although surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy seem to increase the median survival time of dogs diagnosed with tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma, there is no highly effective treatment for canine tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - MacPherson, Heather A.
AU  - Leffler, Jarrod M.
AU  - Fristad, Mary A.
TI  - Implementation of Multi-Family Psychoeducational Psychotherapy for Childhood Mood Disorders in an Outpatient Community Setting
JO  - Journal of Marital and Family Therapy
JA  - J Marital Fam Ther
VL  - 40
IS  - 2
SN  - 0194-472X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jmft.12013
DO  - doi:10.1111/jmft.12013
SP  - 193
EP  - 211
PY  - 2014
AB  - Despite advances in evidence-based treatments (EBTs), research suggests these interventions are not utilized in practice settings. This study examined implementation of multi-family psychoeducational psychotherapy (MF-PEP), an EBT for childhood mood disorders, in two outpatient community clinics. Fifteen community therapists facilitated MF-PEP. Twenty community clinicians referred 40 children ages 8?12 with mood disorders and their parents who participated in MF-PEP. Preliminary descriptive findings based on observations and self-report questionnaires demonstrated implementation outcomes of acceptability, adoption, appropriateness, feasibility, implementation cost, penetration, and sustainability of MF-PEP at these clinics. Parents also demonstrated significant improvement in knowledge of mood disorders posttreatment. Preliminary results support implementation of MF-PEP in practice settings and suggest community-based MF-PEP may be associated with improvement in clinical outcomes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Colón-Emeric, Cathleen
AU  - O'Connell, Mary Beth
AU  - Haney, Elizabeth
TI  - Osteoporosis Piece of Multi-Morbidity Puzzle in Geriatric Care
JO  - Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine: A Journal of Translational and Personalized Medicine
JA  - Mt Sinai J Med
VL  - 78
IS  - 4
SN  - 0027-2507
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/msj.20269
DO  - doi:10.1002/msj.20269
SP  - 515
EP  - 526
KW  - depression
KW  - multimorbidity
KW  - osteoporosis
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Osteoporosis frequently coexists with other chronic diseases and syndromes of aging, and therefore multimorbidity interactions can potentially complicate its evaluation and treatment. This article reviews osteoporosis comorbidity interactions with select common diseases of aging including cardiovascular, neurologic, and geriatric syndromes, and select commonly used medications by older adults. Using depression as a case example, we describe the complex relationship between osteoporosis, mood, and antidepressant medications, and the implications of these interactions for patients and clinicians. Mt Sinai J Med 78:515?526, 2011. ? 2011 Mount Sinai School of Medicine
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wang, Shuyue
AU  - Jiaerken, Yeerfan
AU  - Yu, Xinfeng
AU  - Shen, Zhujing
AU  - Luo, Xiao
AU  - Hong, Hui
AU  - Sun, Jianzhong
AU  - Xu, Xiaojun
AU  - Zhang, Ruiting
AU  - Zhou, Ying
AU  - Lou, Min
AU  - Huang, Peiyu
AU  - Zhang, Minming
TI  - Understanding the association between psychomotor processing speed and white matter hyperintensity: A comprehensive multi-modality MR imaging study
JO  - Human Brain Mapping
JA  - Hum Brain Mapp
VL  - 41
IS  - 3
SN  - 1065-9471
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.24826
DO  - doi:10.1002/hbm.24826
SP  - 605
EP  - 616
KW  - cortex
KW  - diffusion tensor imaging
KW  - functional magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - processing speed
KW  - tractography
KW  - white matter hyperintensity
PY  - 2020
AB  - Abstract Cognitive processing speed is crucial for human cognition and declines with aging. White matter hyperintensity (WMH), a common sign of WM vascular damage in the elderly, is closely related to slower psychomotor processing speed. In this study, we investigated the association between WMH and psychomotor speed changes through a comprehensive assessment of brain structural and functional features. Multi-modal MRIs were acquired from 60 elderly adults. Psychomotor processing speeds were assessed using the Trail Making Test Part A (TMT-A). Linear regression analyses were performed to assess the associations between TMT-A and brain features, including WMH volumes in five cerebral regions, diffusivity parameters in the major WM tracts, regional gray matter volume, and brain activities across the whole brain. Hierarchical regression analysis was used to demonstrate the contribution of each index to slower psychomotor processing speed. Linear regression analysis demonstrated that WMH volume in the occipital lobe and fractional anisotropy of the forceps major, an occipital association tract, were associated with TMT-A. Besides, resting-state brain activities in the visual cortex connected to the forceps major were associated with TMT-A. Hierarchical regression showed fractional anisotropy of the forceps major and regional brain activities were significant predictors of TMT-A. The occurrence of WMH, combined with the disruption of passing-through fiber integrity and altered functional activities in areas connected by this fiber, are associated with a decline of psychomotor processing speed. While the causal relationship of this WMH-Tract-Function-Behavior link requires further investigation, this study enhances our understanding of these complex mechanisms.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pfurtscheller, Klaus
AU  - Petnehazy, Thomas
AU  - Goessler, Walter
AU  - Bubalo, Vladimir
AU  - Kamolz, Lars-Peter
AU  - Trop, Marija
TI  - Transdermal uptake and organ distribution of silver from two different wound dressings in rats after a burn trauma
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
JA  - Wound Repair Regen
VL  - 22
IS  - 5
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/wrr.12209
DO  - doi:10.1111/wrr.12209
SP  - 654
EP  - 659
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Silver-containing wound dressings are an integral part of wound therapy in adult and pediatric burn patients. The antimicrobial effect of silver is well known and has been described in numerous studies. Side effects are rarely reported from silver-containing wound care products, even though systemic absorption of silver has been shown by elevated levels of silver in the blood of patients after silver exposure during wound therapy. This animal study investigated the silver levels of blood and in which organs and tissues silver is detectable after long-term application of silver-containing wound dressings after a burn trauma. In male rats, a major full-thickness scald was created on their backs according to a standardized burn model. Two different silver-containing wound dressings (nanocrystalline silver [NCS] and silver sulphate foam [SSF]) were applied initially and changed every 7 days. Weekly blood drawings revealed an increase of blood silver in week three with significant higher values in the SSF compared with NCS group (Ag ?g/kg 135.8 vs. 61.7; means; p?≤?0.05). Thereafter, the NCS group showed significantly higher blood silver levels than the SSF group at week five (Ag ?g/kg 192.3 vs. 81.3; means; p?≤?0.01) and six (Ag ?g/kg 168.2 vs. 32.9; means; p?≤?0.01). After 6 weeks, the animals were sacrificed, and the organs and tissues were analyzed for their silver content by inductively coupled plasma mass-spectrometry. Silver was detectable in all analyzed organs and tissue samples, with higher silver values in parenchymatous organs in the NCS than SSF group (Ag ?g/kg; spleen: 3,469 vs. 260; kidney: 3,186 vs. 289; liver: 2,022 vs. 313; means; p?≤?0.05). Silver was also detectable in brain, testis, lung, heart, and muscle tissue.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Seikkula, Jaakko
AU  - Laitila, Aarno
AU  - Rober, Peter
TI  - Making Sense of Multi-Actor Dialogues in Family Therapy and Network Meetings
JO  - Journal of Marital and Family Therapy
VL  - 38
IS  - 4
SN  - 0194-472X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1752-0606.2011.00238.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1752-0606.2011.00238.x
SP  - 667
EP  - 687
PY  - 2012
AB  - In recent years, a number of family therapists have conceptualized psychotherapy as a dialogical activity. This view presents family therapy researchers with specific challenges, the most important of which is to find ways of dealing with the dialogical qualities of the multi-actor dialogues that occur, for example, in family therapeutic conversations. In this article, we propose some preliminary ideas concerning qualitative investigations of multi-actor dialogues. Our aim is to work toward an integration of Bakhtin?s theoretical concepts with good practices in qualitative research (e.g., dialogical tools and concepts of a narrative processes coding system) in order to make sense of family therapy dialogues. A specific method that we have called Dialogical Methods for Investigations of Happening of Change is described. This method allows for a general categorization of the qualities of responsive dialogues in a single session, and also for a detailed focus on particular sequences through a microanalysis of specific topical episodes. The particular focus is on the voices present in the utterances, the positioning of each speaker, and the addressees of the utterances. The method is illustrated via an analysis of a couple therapy session with a depressed woman and her husband.
ER  - 
