
TY  - JOUR
TI  - Scientific Presentation Abstracts
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 43
IS  - 6
SN  - 0161-3499
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1532-950X.2014.12263.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1532-950X.2014.12263.x
SP  - E151
EP  - E211
PY  - 2014
ER  - 

AU  - Theoret, Christine
C7  - pp. 1-13
TI  - Physiology of Wound Healing
SN  - 9781118999257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118999219.ch1
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118999219.ch1
SP  - 1-13
KW  - healing
KW  - repair
KW  - scarring
KW  - physiology
KW  - hemostasis
KW  - inflammation
KW  - fibroplasia
KW  - granulation
KW  - angiogenesis
KW  - epithelialization
KW  - wound contraction
KW  - remodeling
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary Prior to undertaking the management of a wound, the underlying biology of wound healing must be understood so that the best approach at the correct time can be selected, and so that problems with healing, if they arise, are recognized. This chapter aims to provide an update on the physiological, cellular, biochemical, and molecular aspects of wound repair.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - MALIK, R
AU  - GABOR, LJ
AU  - FOSTER, SF
AU  - McCORKELL, BE
AU  - CANFIELD, PJ
TI  - Therapy for Australian cats with lymphosarcoma
JO  - Australian Veterinary Journal
VL  - 79
IS  - 12
SN  - 9781118999257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1751-0813.2001.tb10923.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1751-0813.2001.tb10923.x
SP  - 808
EP  - 817
KW  - Lymphosarcoma
KW  - malignant lymphoma
KW  - cat
KW  - feline leukaemia virus
KW  - feline immunodeficiency virus
KW  - chemotherapy
KW  - doxorubicin
KW  - l-asparaginase
PY  - 2001
AB  - Objective To determine the response of Australian cats with lymphosarcoma to chemotherapy and/or surgery in relation to patient and tumour characteristics, haematological and serum biochemical values and retroviral status. Design Prospective study of 61 client-owned cats with naturally-occurring lymphosarcoma subjected to multi-agent chemotherapy and/or surgery. Procedure An accepted chemotherapy protocol utilising l-asparaginase, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, methotrexate and prednisolone was modified and used to treat 60 cats with lymphosarcoma. Clinical findings were recorded before and during therapy. As far as practical, cases were followed to death, euthanasia or apparent cure. Owner satisfaction with the results of chemotherapy was determined using a questionnaire sent after the completion of chemotherapy. Results One cat, with lymphosarcoma limited to a single mandibular lymph node, was treated using surgery alone and was cured. The other 60 cats were treated using multi-agent chemotherapy, although seven cats with localised intestinal, ocular and subcutaneous lesions had these lesions partially (2 intestinal lesions) or completely (2 eyes, 2 intestinal lesions and a cluster of regional lymph nodes) resected prior to starting chemotherapy. The median survival time for these 60 cats was 116 days. Of the 60 cats, 48 rapidly went into complete remission following the administration of l-asparaginase, vincristine and prednisolone (complete remission rate 80%) and these cats had a median survival of 187 days. Three cats were censored from further analysis as their long-term survival data were uninterpretable because they died of causes unrelated to lymphosarcoma or were prematurely lost to follow-up. Twenty cats were classed as ?long-term survivors? based on survival time in excess of one year and at least 14 were ?cured? based on the absence of physical evidence of lymphosarcoma 2-years after initiating treatment. In other words, of the 48 cats that reached complete remission, in excess of 29% were ?cured?. Despite detailed analysis, few meaningful prognostic indicators based on patient or tumour characteristics were identified, although long-term survivors were more likely to be less than 4-years (P = 0.04) and to have tumours of the T-cell phenotype (P = 0.06). Excluding the one FeLV ELISA-positive cat with mediastinal LSA, 7 of 9 cats less than 4 years-of-age were long-term survivors (median survival time >1271 days). There was a strong association between achieving complete remission and long-term survival (P = 0.003). On the basis of 27 replies to a questionnaire, owners were generally very satisfied with the response to chemotherapy, irrespective of the survival time of the individual patient. Eighty five percent of owners expressed complete satisfaction with their decision to pursue chemotherapy and 70% believed their cat's health status improved during the first 2-weeks of treatment. Importantly, 78% of owners considered that chemotherapy required a very substantial time commitment on their part. Conclusions It was possible to cure approximately one quarter of cats with lymphosarcoma using sequential multi-agent chemotherapy and/or surgery. FeLV-negative cats younger than 4 years (typically with mediastinal lymphosarcoma) had a particularly favourable prognosis. The decision to embark on chemotherapy should be based on the results of induction chemotherapy with l-asparaginase, vincristine and prednisolone, as the response to this was a good predictor of long-term survival. Cats surviving the first 16 weeks of chemotherapy generally enjoyed robust remissions (in excess of 1 year) or were cured of their malignancy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wallin, A.
TI  - Current definition and classification of dementia diseases
JO  - Acta Neurologica Scandinavica
VL  - 94
IS  - s168
SN  - 9781118999257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0404.1996.tb00371.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0404.1996.tb00371.x
SP  - 39
EP  - 44
KW  - classification systems
KW  - diagnosis
KW  - neuropsychiatrie symptoms
PY  - 1996
AB  - Introduction ? Current clinical diagnosis of dementia diseases mostly relies exclusively on the symptom picture, but there is no clear dividing line between the symptoms per se and the pathological changes. Discussion ? The above indistinctness characterizes the current most widely used definitions and classification systems for dementia diseases. There is also a lack of integration, as different categories of doctors conceptualize the dementia syndrome differently, and the various existing classification systems put the emphasis on different aspects of dementia diseases. Conclusion ? As a first step towards an up-to-date classification of dementia diseases, a distinction between symptoms and pathological changes should be made. A second step is to find patterns both of biological markers and of neuropsychiatric symptoms that are linked to the various pathological changes of the disease.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schwartz, Joseph
AU  - Winters, Jeffrey L.
AU  - Padmanabhan, Anand
AU  - Balogun, Rasheed A.
AU  - Delaney, Meghan
AU  - Linenberger, Michael L.
AU  - Szczepiorkowski, Zbigniew M.
AU  - Williams, Mark E.
AU  - Wu, Yanyun
AU  - Shaz, Beth H.
TI  - Guidelines on the Use of Therapeutic Apheresis in Clinical Practice—Evidence-Based Approach from the Writing Committee of the American Society for Apheresis: The Sixth Special Issue
JO  - Journal of Clinical Apheresis
JA  - J. Clin. Apheresis
VL  - 28
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781118999257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jca.21276
DO  - doi:10.1002/jca.21276
SP  - 145
EP  - 284
KW  - apheresis
KW  - plasma exchange
KW  - immunoadsorption
KW  - leukocytapheresis
KW  - photopheresis
KW  - categories
KW  - indications
KW  - evidence based
KW  - red blood cell exchange
KW  - LDL apheresis
KW  - rheopheresis
PY  - 2013
AB  - The American Society for Apheresis (ASFA) JCA Special Issue Writing Committee is charged with reviewing, updating and categorizating indications for therapeutic apheresis. Beginning with the 2007 ASFA Special Issue (Fourth Edition), the committee has incorporated systematic review and evidence-based approach in the grading and categorization of indications. This Sixth Edition of the ASFA Special Issue has further improved the process of using evidence-based medicine in the recommendations by consistently applying the category and GRADE system definitions, but eliminating the ?level of evidence? criteria (from the University HealthCare Consortium) utilized in prior editions given redundancy between GRADE and University HealthCare Consortium systems. The general layout and concept of a fact sheet that was utilized in the Fourth and Fifth Editions, has been largely maintained in this edition. Each fact sheet succinctly summarizes the evidence for the use of therapeutic apheresis in a specific disease entity. This article consists of 78 fact sheets (increased from 2010) for therapeutic indications in ASFA categories I through IV, with many diseases categorized having multiple clinical presentations/situations which are individually graded and categorized. J. Clin. Apheresis 28:145?284, 2013. ? 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mobbs, Ralph J.
AU  - Phan, Kevin
TI  - History of Retractor Technologies for Percutaneous Pedicle Screw Fixation Systems
JO  - Orthopaedic Surgery
JA  - Orthop Surg
VL  - 8
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781118999257
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/os.12216
DO  - doi:10.1111/os.12216
SP  - 3
EP  - 10
KW  - Minimally invasive surgery
KW  - Percutaneous pedicle screw
KW  - Spine surgery
KW  - Technologies
PY  - 2016
AB  - Minimally invasive techniques aimed at minimizing surgery-associated risk and morbidity of spinal surgery have increased in popularity in recent years. Their potential advantages include reduced length of hospital stay, blood loss, and requirement for post-operative analgesia and earlier return to work. One such minimally invasive technique is the use of percutaneous pedicle screw fixation, which is paramount for promoting rigid and stable constructs and fusion in the context of trauma, tumors, deformity and degenerative disease. Percutaneous pedicle screw insertion can be an intimidating prospect for surgeons who have only been trained in open techniques. One of the ongoing challenges of this percutaneous system is to provide the surgeon with adequate access to the pedicle entry anatomy and adequate tactile or visual feedback concerning the position and anatomy of the rod and set-screw construct. This review article discusses the history and evolution of percutaneous pedicle screw retractor technologies and outlines the advances over the last decade in the rapidly expanding field of minimal access surgery for posterior pedicle screw based spinal stabilization. As indications for percutaneous pedicle screw techniques expand, the nuances of the minimally invasive surgery techniques and associated technologies will also multiply. It is important that experienced surgeons have access to tools that can improve access with a greater degree of ease, simplicity and safety. We here discuss the technical challenges of percutaneous pedicle screw retractor technologies and a variety of systems with a focus on the pros and cons of various retractor systems.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 429-447
TI  - Nasal Discharge
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119414612.ch33
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119414612.ch33
SP  - 429-447
KW  - airway
KW  - upper respiratory tract
KW  - nares
KW  - nostrils
KW  - nasal alae
KW  - nasal planum
KW  - nasal cavities
KW  - nasal septum
KW  - conchae
KW  - turbinates
KW  - nasal passages
KW  - meatus
KW  - sinuses
KW  - frontal sinus
KW  - maxillary sinus
KW  - pharynx
KW  - larynx
KW  - nose
KW  - cobblestone
KW  - stenotic nares
KW  - brachycephalic breeds
KW  - olfaction
KW  - respiratory function
KW  - air
KW  - nasal mucosa
KW  - vascular congestion
KW  - “stuffy”
KW  - mucus
KW  - particulate matter
KW  - ciliary action
KW  - nasal discharge
KW  - serous nasal discharge
KW  - abnormal nasal discharge
KW  - unilateral nasal discharge
KW  - bilateral nasal discharge
KW  - acute nasal discharge
KW  - chronic nasal discharge
KW  - color
KW  - transparency
KW  - consistency
KW  - watery
KW  - thick
KW  - gelatinous
KW  - mucoid
KW  - mucopurulent
KW  - purulent
KW  - serohemorrhagic
KW  - hemorrhagic
KW  - cytology
KW  - degenerate neutrophils
KW  - bacteria
KW  - intracellular bacteria
KW  - upper respiratory infections (URIs)
KW  - epistaxis
KW  - erythrocytes
KW  - trauma
KW  - fungal infections
KW  - neoplasia
KW  - systemic disease
KW  - coagulopathies
KW  - thrombocytopenia
KW  - vasculitis
KW  - hypertension
KW  - bartonellosis
KW  - ehrlichiosis
KW  - leishmaniasis
KW  - signalment
KW  - differential diagnoses
KW  - congenital disease
KW  - cleft palates
KW  - foreign bodies
KW  - infectious disease
KW  - neoplastic disease
KW  - dolichocephalic breeds
KW  - comprehensive history
KW  - health history
KW  - patient history
KW  - lifestyle
KW  - travel history
KW  - exposure to conspecifics
KW  - vaccination history
KW  - Actinomyces spp
KW  - Bordetella bronchiseptica
KW  - Chlamydophila felis
KW  - chlamydiosis
KW  - Mycoplasma felis
KW  - Mycoplasma gatae
KW  - Aspergillus spp
KW  - coccidioidomycosis
KW  - Valley Fever
KW  - Cryptococcus neoformans
KW  - Cryptococcus gattii
KW  - Canine infectious respiratory disease (CIRD)
KW  - feline calicivirus
KW  - feline herpesvirus-1 (FHV-1)
KW  - Capillaria aerophila
KW  - Cuterebra spp
KW  - canine adenovirus-2 (CAV-2)
KW  - canine distemper virus (CDV)
KW  - canine herpesvirus
KW  - canine influenza (H3N8)
KW  - canine parainfluenza
KW  - canine respiratory coronavirus
KW  - nasal aspergillosis
KW  - Aspergillus fumigatus
KW  - sinonasal aspergillosis
KW  - depigmentation
KW  - spores
KW  - deformation
KW  - lytic changes
KW  - cribriform plate
KW  - paranasal bone
KW  - orbital lamina
KW  - advanced imaging
KW  - computed tomography (CT) scan
KW  - cryptococcosis
KW  - Roman nose
KW  - nasofacial swelling
KW  - ataxia
KW  - seizures
KW  - paralysis
KW  - hyperesthesia
KW  - conjunctivitis
KW  - sneezing
KW  - “chronic snufflers”
KW  - persistent rhinitis
KW  - rhinosinusitis
KW  - allergic rhinitis
KW  - lymphoplasmacytic rhinitis (LPR)
KW  - chronic inflammatory rhinitis
KW  - nasopharyngeal polyp
KW  - rhinoscopy
KW  - hyperemia
KW  - edema
KW  - plasma cell
KW  - lymphocytic infiltration
KW  - adenocarcinomas
KW  - squamous cell carcinoma (SCC)
KW  - transitional cell carcinoma
KW  - undifferentiated carcinoma
KW  - lymphoma
KW  - sarcomas
KW  - chondrosarcoma
KW  - fibrosarcoma
KW  - osteosarcoma
KW  - hemangiosarcoma
KW  - mast cell tumor
KW  - melanoma
KW  - plasma cell tumor
KW  - patency of airflow
KW  - glass slide
KW  - cotton wool
KW  - magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
KW  - olfactory bulb
KW  - biopsies
KW  - bleeding
KW  - radiation therapy
KW  - radiation-induced cataracts
KW  - feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV)
KW  - feline leukemia virus (FeLV)
KW  - surgical debulking
KW  - non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
KW  - piroxicam
KW  - clefts
KW  - clefts of the primary palate
KW  - clefts of the secondary palate
KW  - oronasal fistula
KW  - periodontal disease
KW  - traumatic avulsion
KW  - maxillary canine tooth
KW  - severe overbite
KW  - iatrogenic oronasal fistula
KW  - dental extractions
KW  - mucoperiosteal flap
KW  - bite wound
KW  - gunshot or pellet wound
KW  - automobile-associated trauma
KW  - penetrating foreign body
KW  - clinical approach
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary The respiratory system is complex. Although it consists of upper and lower respiratory tracts, the former is the focus of this chapter. The primary function of the upper respiratory tract is to conduct air from the external environment into the lower airway. This process begins at the external nose. Air moves through the nares and into paired nasal cavities. Air is cleansed, warmed, and humidified during its passage through the upper respiratory tract. A small amount of serous nasal discharge can be considered normal in the companion animal patient. However, copious amounts of serous nasal discharge may be indicative of pathology. Nasal discharge is a common complaint in companion animal practice. Its presentation is immensely variable in terms of color, translucency, and consistency, but it is most frequently described by cellular content as being mucoid, mucopurulent, serohemorrhagic, or hemorrhagic. Onset of nasal discharge may be acute, chronic, or recurrent. Nasal discharge may be unilateral or bilateral, or laterality may change with disease progression. It may occur in isolation of systemic signs of disease? or the patient may be systemically ill. Each fact deduced from history taking and every finding on physical examination provides a clue as to the likelihood of the underlying cause. Nasal discharge is particularly frustrating to the veterinary client and clinician alike when it is chronic. In such cases, secondary bacterial infection is common, and although antibiotic therapy may provide transient resolution of clinical signs, recurrence is likely without having identified or addressed the primary issue. A definitive diagnosis requires a multifaceted approach. Signalment, case history, and physical examination findings collectively assist with disease localization and prioritization of differential diagnoses. However, ancillary diagnostic tests are invaluable. A combination of cytology, histopathology, bacteriology, mycology, and imaging studies may be necessary to rule out infectious, inflammatory, and/or neoplastic disease. Idiopathic rhinitis and sinorhinitis are relatively common among companion animal patients. Nasal disease may also be congenital, genetic, or iatrogenic in origin.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gómez-Ramírez, Susana
AU  - Maldonado-Ruiz, María Ángeles
AU  - Campos-Garrigues, Arturo
AU  - Herrera, Antonio
AU  - Muñoz, Manuel
TI  - Short-term perioperative iron in major orthopedic surgery: state of the art
JO  - Vox Sanguinis
JA  - Vox Sang
VL  - 114
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vox.12718
DO  - doi:10.1111/vox.12718
SP  - 3
EP  - 16
KW  - patient blood management
KW  - recombinant erythropoietin
KW  - oral iron
KW  - intravenous iron
KW  - surgery
KW  - transfusion
PY  - 2019
AB  - In major orthopaedic surgery, it is recommended to detect and correct preoperative anaemia several weeks prior to surgery. However, in many cases, the procedure is urgent or the patient is evaluated shortly before the intervention. As iron deficiency is the leading cause of perioperative anaemia, an exhaustive review of the literature was performed to assess the efficacy and safety of short-term perioperative intravenous, with or without erythropoietin, or postoperative oral or intravenous supplementation in major orthopaedic surgery. Overall, 20 studies met the inclusion criteria. There were 13 randomized trials (moderate quality) and seven observational studies (low to very low quality). The primary outcomes were reduction in transfusion requirements, haemoglobin increase and medication side-effects during the study period. Data analysis showed that postoperative oral iron administration neither increased haemoglobin nor reduced transfusion requirements, and it was associated with significant gastrointestinal adverse effects (15%). In contrast, for some patient populations, perioperative or postoperative administration of intravenous iron, with or without recombinant erythropoietin, may reduce transfusion requirements and/or hasten the recovery from postoperative, with few clinically relevant adverse effects (<2%). However, discrepancies between randomized trials and observational studies on the possible beneficial effects of short-term perioperative intravenous iron administration were found for patients undergoing surgery for hip fracture repair. Further studies are needed to elucidate when the treatment should be started, which combination of drugs should be used, and which patient groups would be most benefit.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hameed, Ahmer M.
AU  - Lam, Vincent W. T.
AU  - Pleass, Henry C.
TI  - Significant elevations of serum lipase not caused by pancreatitis: a systematic review
JO  - HPB
JA  - HPB
VL  - 17
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/hpb.12277
DO  - doi:10.1111/hpb.12277
SP  - 99
EP  - 112
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Background Many authors advocate lipase as the preferred serological test for the diagnosis of pancreatitis and a cut-off level of three or more times the upper limit of normal (ULN) is often quoted. The literature contains no systematic review that explores alternative causes of a lipase level over three times as high as the ULN. Such a review was therefore the objective of this study. Methods The EMBASE and MEDLINE databases (1985 to August 2013) were searched for all eligible articles. Predetermined data were extracted and independently analysed by two reviewers. Results In total, data from 58 studies were included in the final analysis. The following causes other than pancreatitis of lipase levels exceeding three times the ULN were found: reduced clearance of lipase caused by renal impairment or macrolipase formation; other hepatobiliary, gastroduodenal, intestinal and neoplastic causes; critical illness, including neurosurgical pathology; alternative pancreatic diagnoses, such as non-pathological pancreatic hyperenzymaemia, and miscellaneous causes such as diabetes, drugs and infections. Conclusions A series of differential diagnoses for significant serum lipase elevations (i.e. exceeding three times the ULN) has been provided by this study. Clinicians should utilize this knowledge in the interpretation and management of patients who have lipase levels over three times as high as the ULN, remaining vigilant for an alternative diagnosis to pancreatitis. The medical officer should be aware of the possibility of incorrect diagnosis in the asymptomatic patient.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Williams, T. L.
AU  - Elliott, J.
AU  - Berry, J.
AU  - Syme, H. M.
TI  - Investigation of the pathophysiological mechanism for altered calcium homeostasis in hyperthyroid cats
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 54
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12102
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12102
SP  - 367
EP  - 373
PY  - 2013
AB  - Objective To investigate possible pathophysiological mechanisms (reduced plasma calcitriol concentrations and/or presence of concurrent or masked chronic kidney disease) for hypocalcaemiain hyperthyroid cats. Methods Prospective cohort study. Routine plasma biochemical parameters, plasma parathyroid hormone and calcitriol concentrations, ionized calcium concentrations, and venous pH, were measured at diagnosis and following treatment of hyperthyroidism. Linear regression analysis was used to determine predictors of ionized calcium concentration. Results Hyperthyroid cats (n=45) had lower ionized calcium concentrations than healthy geriatric cats (n=52), however, ionized calcium concentrations were higher in hyperthyroid cats with concurrent or masked chronic kidney disease than non-azotaemic hyperthyroid cats. Plasma calcitriol concentrations were higher in hyperthyroid cats than control cats. Plasma total thyroxine concentration and venous pH were independent predictors of ionized calcium concentration. Plasma total thyroxine concentration was also a predictor of ionized calcium concentration after adjustment for plasma parathyroid hormone and calcitriol concentrations. Clinical Significance Hypocalcaemia in hyperthyroid cats is not associated with the presence of concurrent or masked chronic kidney disease or reduced plasma calcitriol concentrations. Increased thyroid hormone concentrations might influence ionized calcium concentrations through a mechanism, yet to be determined, that is independent of control by parathyroid hormone and calcitriol.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - ADSHEAD, GWEN
AU  - CANTERBURY, RACHEL
AU  - ROSE, SUZANNA
TI  - Current provision and recommendations for the management of psychosocial morbidity following disaster in England
JO  - Criminal Behaviour and Mental Health
VL  - 4
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cbm.1994.4.3.181
DO  - doi:10.1002/cbm.1994.4.3.181
SP  - 181
EP  - 208
PY  - 1994
AB  - Although disasters remain statistically rare events, the last decade has seen an increase in the number of major incidents affecting the UK. Concurrent with this increase has come clinical data, showing how psychosocial health may be adversely affected by disasters. There is good evidence that many victims of traumatic stress suffer from depression and suicidal behaviour; two of the English Department of Health?s stated objectives for reduction in their publication, Health of the Nation. The objectives of this paper were to give the Department of Health a survey of the current provision of psychosocial care after disasters at English regional health authority level and to make recommendations regarding good practice in the care of victims of trauma by healthcare professionals. The methodology used was varied. Letters were sent to all the regional public health departments asking for information about the psychological care element within their major incident plans. The findings showed that the provision for psychosocial care following a disaster in England is extremely variable and although there are undoubtedly regions with considerable expertise and interest, there are also regions where provision appears to be minimal or non-existent. The provision of specialist traumatic stress services at regional level is recommended.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Streubel, Ronny
AU  - Bilzer, Thomas
AU  - Grest, Paula
AU  - Damur, Daniel
AU  - Montavon, Pierre M.
TI  - Medial humeral epicondylitis in clinically affected cats
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 44
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.12370
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.12370
SP  - 905
EP  - 913
PY  - 2015
AB  - Objective To describe the clinical signs and histologic changes in cats clinically affected with medial humeral epicondylitis (MHE) and evaluate long-term outcome after either conservative or surgical treatment. Study Design Prospective cohort study. Animals Client-owned cats (n?=?17) with MHE. Methods Cats diagnosed with MHE, based on clinical signs, radiographs and computed tomography (CT), were prospectively recruited. Cats were treated conservatively for an initial 4 weeks, followed by either surgery or continued conservative treatment. Followup examinations were performed at 6 and 12 weeks and at 6?49 months. Results Cats had a mean age of 10.3 years and presented for chronic lameness. Examination revealed pain on palpation caudodistal to the medial epicondyle and by exerting antebrachial supination/pronation with elbow and carpal flexion. Lameness was restricted to 1 limb although CT revealed bilateral disease in 11/17 cats. Free mineralized joint bodies were identified in 9/17 cats. Nine cats were treated surgically and 8 cats were treated conservatively. Intraoperative findings included new bone formation at the origin of the humeral head of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle with displacement and adhesions of the ulnar nerve. Microscopic examination revealed neurogenic myopathy in 4/9 cats treated surgically. Seven of 9 cats treated surgically were free from lameness by 12 weeks. Seven of 8 cats treated conservatively were chronically lame throughout the study. Conclusions Cats with forelimb lameness should be evaluated for MHE. This condition is associated with free joint bodies and neurogenic myopathy. Surgical treatment is associated with excellent outcome in the majority of cats.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Slagboom, Julien
AU  - Kool, Jeroen
AU  - Harrison, Robert A.
AU  - Casewell, Nicholas R.
TI  - Haemotoxic snake venoms: their functional activity, impact on snakebite victims and pharmaceutical promise
JO  - British Journal of Haematology
JA  - Br J Haematol
VL  - 177
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bjh.14591
DO  - doi:10.1111/bjh.14591
SP  - 947
EP  - 959
KW  - envenoming
KW  - neglected tropical diseases
KW  - toxin
KW  - haemorrhage
KW  - venom-induced consumption coagulopathy
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary Snake venoms are mixtures of numerous proteinacious components that exert diverse functional activities on a variety of physiological targets. Because the toxic constituents found in venom vary from species to species, snakebite victims can present with a variety of life-threatening pathologies related to the neurotoxic, cytotoxic and haemotoxic effects of venom. Of the 1·8 million people envenomed by snakes every year, up to 125 000 die, while hundreds of thousands survive only to suffer with life-changing long-term morbidity. Consequently, snakebite is one of the world's most severe neglected tropical diseases. Many snake venoms exhibit strong haemotoxic properties by interfering with blood pressure, clotting factors and platelets, and by directly causing haemorrhage. In this review we provide an overview of the functional activities of haemotoxic venom proteins, the pathologies they cause in snakebite victims and how their exquisite selectivity and potency make them amenable for use as therapeutic and diagnostic tools relevant for human medicine.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - VAN STRIJEN, M. J. L.
AU  - BLOEM, J. L.
AU  - DE MONYÉ, W.
AU  - KIEFT, G. J.
AU  - PATTYNAMA, P. M. T.
AU  - VAN DEN BERG-HUIJSMANS, A.
AU  - HUISMAN, M. V.
AU  - ON BEHALF OF THE ANTELOPE-STUDY GROUP
TI  - Helical computed tomography and alternative diagnosis in patients with excluded pulmonary embolism
JO  - Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis
VL  - 3
IS  - 11
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1538-7836.2005.01596.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1538-7836.2005.01596.x
SP  - 2449
EP  - 2456
KW  - alternative diagnosis
KW  - comparative studies
KW  - computed tomography
KW  - pulmonary embolism
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary.? Objective:?A clinical diagnosis of pulmonary embolism (PE) is confirmed objectively in 20?30% of patients. Helical computed tomography (CT) can allow an alternative diagnosis to be made. The frequency and validity of alternative diagnoses on helical CT in consecutive patients presenting with clinically suspected PE was assessed. Patients and methods:?In all 512 prospectively analyzed patients helical CT scan was performed, and apart from presence or absence of PE, pathologic changes in lung parenchyma, mediastinum, cardiovascular system, pleura and skeleton were recorded. When possible an alternative diagnosis was given and compared with the final diagnosis after 3?months follow-up. Results:?In 130 patients (25.4%) PE was excluded and an alternative diagnosis considered likely. In 123 of the 130 patients (94.6%) this diagnosis was unchanged at 3?months follow-up. The diagnoses included pneumonia (n?=?67), malignancy (n?=?22), pleural fluid (n?=?10), cardiac failure (n?=?10), COPD (n?=?6) and a variety of other causes (n?=?15). The diagnosis changed at follow-up in seven patients (5.4%). An initial diagnosis of pneumonia changed to malignancy in two patients and to pleuritis and cardiac failure in one patient each. In two other patients malignancy and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) were ruled out and the diagnosis changed to pneumonia. In one patient the final diagnosis remained unknown after an initial suspicion of malignancy. Conclusion:?In clinically suspected PE helical CT allows a reliable alternative diagnosis to be made in 25.4% of patients. This feature is an unique advantage in comparison with other diagnostic tests and supports the decision of taking helical CT as first line test in suspected PE.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Scientific Presentation Abstracts 2015 European College Veterinary Surgeons Annual Scientific Meeting July 2–4, Berlin, Germany
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 44
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.12345
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.12345
SP  - E1
EP  - E39
PY  - 2015
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Neuropsychology/Language/Behavior: Adult
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_9.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_9.x
SP  - 59
EP  - 74
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Carla C. Adda, 2 Luiz H. Castro, and 1 Rosa Kashiara ( 1 Division of Psychology, Hospital das Clinicas FMUSP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Traditional neuropsychological testing may fail to detect abnormalities in declarative memory tests in epileptic patients. One possible explanation is that such tests do not adequately measure memory in real life activities. Prospective memory (PM), i.e. cognitive abilities related to remembering a planned intention in the correct setting, may be a more ecological measurement of memory function in daily activities. We studied the performance of patients with left and right mesial temporal sclerosis and normal controls in a prospective memory battery and compared results with performance in the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) and with a self assessment questionaire for memory impairment (QMI). Methods: The battery consisted of six time and event related tasks to be recalled in the adequate situation, such as remembering to tell the examiner that they needed a new prescrition after fifteen minutes and remembering to ask for an personal object taken by the examiner at the end of a 105 minute session.Patients were submitted a neuropsychological test battery during the session, including the RAVLT and were asked to fill the QMI (24 items). Spontaneous and cued recall of the 15 RAVLT words was tested after 7 days. Performance in the PM tests was compared to RAVLT scores and to QMI score. A patient was considered impaired in either MP or RAVLT if performance fell below 2SD of controls. Significant memory compaints were considered if QMI score was 1SD above controls. Sensitivities and specificities for impairment measured by PM and RAVLT were calculated in relation to QMI assessed impairment (gold standard). Results: We studied 28 patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) (17 left) and 18 normal controls, matched by age (38±10 vs 40±12 yrs) and education (11±2 vs 11±2)(age 40 ±2). Left MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in PM and spontaneous recall and in QMI score (p < 0.05). Both left and right MTS performed significantly worse than controls in 7-day cued recall (p < 0.05). Sensitivities in relation to QMI were 56.2% for PM, 50% for RAVLT, 37.5% RAVLT and PM and 68,8% for RAVLT or PM. Specificities were 100% for PM, 83.3% for RAVLT, 100% for RAVLT and PM and 91.6% for PM or RAVLT measured impairment. Conclusions: This prospective memory test was able to differentiate memory performance between left MTS patients and controls. It is has a better specificity than RAVLT in relation to a self assessment memory questionaire. Its sensitivity is increased when used in combination with RAVLT. Further studies should better delineate its use in combination with other tests in the assessment of memory dysfunction in epileptic patients and in patients with memory impairment of other etiologies. 1 Judith Butman, 2 Maria E. Fontela, 2,3 Veronica De Simone, 3 Marina Drake, 1 Cecilia Serrano, 2 Maria B. Viaggio, 2,3 Alfredo Thomson, and 1,3 Ricardo F. Allegri ( 1 Memory Center, Department of Neurolgy, Hospital Zubizarreta, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; 2 Epilepsy Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; and 3 Neuropsychology Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Britanico, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: It has been proposed that behavioral impairment in patients with amygdala dysfunction might be related to an inability to reverse their behavior despite receiving negative feedback. Epileptic patients who undergo anterior temporal lobectomy represent an ?in vivo? model to study the role of amygdala in cognitive flexibility. The aim of this study is to evaluate cognitive flexibility in epileptic patients with amygdala resection when facing negative feedback. Methods: Ten epileptic patients who underwent anterior temporal lobectomy (6 left temporal lobectomy and 4 right temporal lobectomy) were matched for age and education with 10 healthy controls. Subjects underwent an extensive neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric evaluation. To asses cognitive flexibility we used a reversal ?learning task. Results: Patients' mean and standard deviation score were: Beck depression Inventory 8 ± 1.5; PANSS (positive) 10 ± 1.3; PANSS (negative) 14 ± 2.2; PANSS total 28.3 ± 2; verbal IQ 104.2 ± 7, nonverbal IQ 97.2 ± 6, full scale IQ 101.4 ± 6.3. Categories achieved on Wisconsin Card Sorting Test 5.7 ± 0.16. Patients had less number of reversions (mean:9.3) compared to controls (mean: 4.23; p < 0.001), and needed more trials before the first reversion (patients: 23.42 vs controls: 5; p < 0.05). Conclusions: Patients with epilepsy who undergo anterior temporal lobectomy appear to have post operative difficulties to perform a learning-reversal task. Their lack of cognitive flexibility cannot be explained by psychiatric comorbidity, low IQs or a dysexecutive syndrome. 1 Gus A. Baker ( 1 Division of Neurosciences, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom ) Rationale: There is a wealth of evidence to suggest that people with epilepsy, when compared to normal controls, are much more likely to experience a range of neuropsychological impairments. There are a number of factor that have been linked to the causation of these effects including the underlying lesion, the effects of continuous seizures, the sedative effects of AED treatment and the impact of mood. Determining the relative contributions of these various factors has been difficult but previous studies have confirmed cognitive side effects of several antiepileptic drugs such as central slowing, motor slowing and impairment of attention and concentration. The SANAD trial, a randomised controlled clinical trial of standard versus novel antiepileptic drug treatment, represents a unique opportunity to study the natural history of cognitive impairment in patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy who havge yet to be exposed to AED treatment and who have expereinced few seizures. Methods: A standardised battery of neuropsychological tests including measures of psychomotor speed, attention, memory, mental flexibility, tracking tasks, higher executive functioning, mood and patient perceived cognitive effects were administered prior to AED treatment, 3 months and 12 months. Results: There were differences between the epilepsy group and published control data for a number of key domains including: immediate, delayed and recognition memory; new learning; tests of higher executive functioning; sustained attention; and motor speed. These differences were significant at p = 0.001 level. In addition patients also had significantly worse profiles on the profile of mood scale. Conclusions: These results highlight that newly diagnosed patients with epilepsy are already significantly compromised in terms of their neuropsychological and psychological functioning prior to starting AED treatment and exposure to a significant number of seizures. This study will provide and opportunity to study the development of these cognitive effects allowing for treatment and seizure history. It will also allow for the identification of individuals most at risk of developing signficant cognitive difficulties. (Supported by the following pharmaceutical companies: GlaxoSmithKline, Novatis, Jansen Cilag and Sanofi Synthelabo.) 1 William B. Barr, 2 Essie Larson, 1 Kenneth Alper, and 1 Orrin Devinsky ( 1 NYU Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Psychology, Fordham University, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: The Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory ? 2 (MMPI-2) is an objective, self-report instrument that is used frequently to examine personality and psychopathology in patients with epilepsy. One advantage of this test is that it provides validity indicators useful for identifying biases in responding that could potentially invalidate its results. The goal of this study is to examine the rates of invalid MMPI-2 profiles in a sample of patients undergoing VEEG monitoring for the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy. Methods: MMPI-2 profiles were obtained from 126 patients undergoing continuous inpatient VEEG monitoring. The mean age of the sample was 37.1 years (range, 17 to 74 years). The sex distribution was 74.6% female. Non-epileptic seizures (NES group) were identified in 75 patients. Fifty-one patients had VEEG findings indicating partial (n = 30) or generalized (n = 21) epilepsy (ES group). The groups were matched in terms of age, education, and IQ. The NES group had a higher proportion of females (87% vs. 57%, p < .01). All subjects completed the 567-item version of the MMPI-2. Analyses were conducted on standard validity indices, including the L, F, and K-scales, as well as the consistency indices, VRIN and TRIN. We also examined two other validity measures, the Fp-scale and the FBS-scale. The former was developed for assessment of rarely endorsed symptoms in populations with high rates of psychopathology. The latter (FBS, Fake-Bad-Scale) is used for measuring reporting bias in injury claimants attempting to exaggerate symptoms while maintaining a socially desirable appearance. Rates of invalid responding, as defined by scores exceeding published cutoffs, were assessed through standard tests of proportions. Results: Invalid MMPI-2 profiles were identified in 43.6% of the total sample. A significantly higher rate of invalid responding was observed in the NES group than in the ES group (53.3% vs. 29.4%, p < .001). Invalid profiles were obtained in only 18.6% of the NES group and 17.6% of the ES group when limited to analysis of conventional validity indices (e.g., L, F, K, VRIN,  Chi-Square, NS). None of the 126 subjects participating in this study exhibited an elevation of the Fp-Scale. Elevations of the FBS-Scale were observed in 44.0% of the NES group and in 21.6% of the ES group (p < .001). Conclusions: Over 40% of our sample produced invalid MMPI-2 profiles, which raises concern about the prevalent use of the instrument in this population. Rates of invalid responding in the NES and ES groups were the same when identified through standard validity indices. Higher rates of invalid responding observed with the FBS-Scale indicate that patients with NES are twice as likely to produce exaggerated test profiles than patients diagnosed with partial or generalized epilepsy. 1 Brian D. Bell, and 1 Bruce P. Hermann ( 1 Neurology/Neuropsychology, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison, WI ) Rationale: Conventional memory assessment might fail to identify memory dysfunction that is characterized by intact recall for a relatively brief period, but rapid forgetting thereafter. A recent study of auditory and visual selective reminding test performance revealed that temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients demonstrated poorer memory ability than controls, but there were no group differences in rate of information loss at the 30-minute and 24-hour delay trials (Bell et al., 2005). In addition, at the individual level of analysis accelerated forgetting over 24 hours was not more common in TLE patients compared to controls. Methods: In this study, we assessed Wechsler Memory Scale-3rd ed. (WMS-III) Logical Memory subtest (LM) performance, including immediate memory and recall after 30-minute and 14-day delays, in a control group (n = 25) and a group of individuals with TLE (n = 25). The mean age of epilepsy onset was 11 years (SD = 8). Individuals with a history of right, left, bilateral or indeterminate TLE laterality were included and five of the TLE patients had undergone a left anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) at the time of this study. The results described below were unchanged when the ATL patients were excluded. Results: Group analysis: A 2 X 3 (Group X Trial) univariate ANOVA for LM free recall raw scores revealed main effects of group and trial, but no significant group X trial interaction effect. T tests revealed that the control group performed significantly better than the TLE group on the immediate, 30-minute delay, and 14-day delay trials. Individual analysis: Memory impairment was defined as a score ≥ 1 standard deviation below the control group mean. Examination of raw scores revealed that the TLE group had a significantly higher percentage of individuals with impairment at the immediate and 30-minute delay trials, but not at the 14-day delay. Moreover, none of the TLE patients versus three controls (12%) showed memory impairment solely at the 14-day trial. When examining percent retention scores, only 4% of the individuals with TLE versus 20% of the controls were unimpaired after 30 minutes but impaired after 14 days. Conclusions: Accelerated forgetting over a 14-day delay was not present on a widely used story memory test (WMS-III LM) in a group of individuals with TLE. This evidence suggests that the conventional 30-minute delay utilized in clinical neuropsychological evaluations typically is sufficient for measuring memory functioning in TLE patients. Future study of word list retention after a delay of weeks in subsets of TLE patients with clearly lateralized seizures would further test this hypothesis. (Supported by NIH grants NS 37738, NS 42251, and MO1 RR03186 (General Clinical Research Center).) 1 Patient characteristics Patient 1 Patient 2 Age of sz onset 17 14 Age at WADA 43 41 Handedness right right Yrs of education 13 12 Previous surgery right anterior temporal lobectomy left anterior temporal lobectomy Current sz localization right frontal left temporal 1 Donald B. Burton, 1 Pradeep Modur, 1 Rebecca Woods, 1 Edgar Pererra, and 1 Mike Gruenthal ( 1 Neurology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: WADA testing is a standard part of the work-up for epilepsy surgery, and assesses the likelihood of new post-surgical language/memory deficits. We present the WADA results of two patients who had undergone anterior temporal lobectomy, but who had not been evaluated using the WADA. To our knowledge the results of WADA testing in patients who have already undergone anterior temporal-hippocampal resection has not been previously reported. These cases allow for a comparison of the following conditions in regards to memory function: dominant hippocampus, nondominant hippocampus, and no hippocampus. Methods: Our WADA procedure includes a mental status exam, memory acquisition, sequential language testing, and memory recognition. The demographic and surgical data of our cases is detailed in Table 1. Patient 1 had previously undergone a right anterior temporal lobectomy and patient 2 had a left anterior temporal lobectomy. Neither surgery resulted in seizure control, necessitating a new surgical work-up. Results: Results reveal that both patients are left hemisphere dominant for language. The right hemisphere resection patient did not sustain a disruption in memory function as the result of right hemisphere injection, while injection of the dominant hemisphere disrupted memory. In contrast, the left hemisphere resection case displayed more functional memory deficit after nondominant hemisphere injection, while injection of both hemispheres suppressed memory compared to baseline. Figure 1 reveals that the no hippocampus condition resulted in total suppression of memory function for both cases. When the dominant hippocampus was functioning in isolation no disruption of memory function was noted compared to baseline. When the nondominant hippocampus was functioning in isolation memory function was significantly diminished, but not completely suppressed. Conclusions: Current results support the hypotheses that there can be a dominance for memory function that is not solely based on material specificity. Second, resection of the dominant hippocampus results in greater memory impairment compared to resection of the nondominant hippocampus. Third, current results suggest that the nondominant hippocampus can support memory function to an extent, although not at the level of the dominant hippocampus. Finally, our results highlight the need for a comprehensive presurgical work-up. 1 [Memory Assesment: collapsed across cases (% of targets recongnized correctly).] 1 Robyn M. Busch, 1 Heather D. Stott, 1 Thomas W. Frazier, 1 Richard I. Naugle, 2 Imad Najm, and 3 William Bingaman ( 1 Psychiatry  2 Neurology, Epilepsy  and 3 Neurosurgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) have higher rates of depression and anxiety than patients with other focal epilepsies or generalized seizures. Memory problems are common among patients with mood and anxiety disorders as well as among patients with TLE. Given the high prevalence of mood and anxiety disorders and memory problems in patients with TLE, the present study sought to determine if presurgical mood and anxiety scores are useful in predicting memory change following anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) and to ascertain if these scores have incremental validity over presurgical memory and intelligence scores. Methods: This retrospective study examined data from 174 patients with medically intractable TLE (Left = 79; Right = 95) seen for neuropsychological evaluations that included: Depression, Anxiety, Anxiety Related Disorders (ARD), and Mania subscales of the Personality Assessment Inventory; Beck Depression Inventory-II; General Memory Index (GENMEM) from the Wechsler Memory Scale-3rd Edition; and Full Scale IQ (FSIQ) from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-3rd Edition. All patients later underwent ATL for treatment of their epilepsy and completed postsurgical neuropsychological testing. Participants' mean age and education were 34.25 (SD = 11.51) and 12.84 (SD = 2.11), respectively. The mean age of seizure onset was 14.92 (SD = 12.25) and mean duration of seizures was 19.49 years (SD = 12.59). There were no significant differences between the left and right groups in terms of age, race, sex, education, age of seizure onset, or seizure duration. Results: Simple regression analyses were conducted with mood and anxiety as independent variables (IVs) and memory change score as the dependent variable (DV). A hierarchical regression analysis was then computed with presurgical GENMEM and FSIQ scores entered as IVs in step one, the five mood variables in step two, and GENMEM change as the DV. Regression analyses were conducted separately for left and right TLE patients. Results of the simple regression revealed that presurgical mood and anxiety scores were significant predictors of postsurgical change in GENMEM for left TLE but not right TLE patients. Of the mood variables, the ARD subscale made the largest contribution to the prediction. Similarly, hierarchical regression analyses demonstrated that mood and anxiety scores added significantly to the prediction of GENMEM change above and beyond the prediction made by presurgical GENMEM and FSIQ scores among left but not right TLE patients. Again, ARD made the largest contribution to this prediction. Conclusions: This study supports the clinical utility of presurgical mood and anxiety scores in predicting memory change following ATL in patients with left, but not right, TLE. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that mood and anxiety scores add significantly to the prediction of postsurgical memory change beyond the prediction made by presurgical memory scores. 1 Juliana P. DaPaz, 1 Carla C. Adda, 1 Leila M. DaRoz, 1 Leandro L. Valiengo, 1 Carmen L. Jorge, 1 Rosa Maria F. Valerio, 1 Rosa Kashiara, and 1 Luiz Henrique M. Castro ( 1 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Material specific memory deficits are often seen in temporal lobe epilepsy. Patients show verbal learning and confrontation naming deficits. These data were obtained lateralizing patients exclusively by MRI or interictal EEG (iEEG) data. Unilateral mesial temporal sclerosis (uMTS) is often a bilateral disease, with contralateral EEG abnormalities, which may impact on cognitive functioning. We compared neuropsychological scores (NP) in pure unilateral and bilateral uMTS patients. Methods: MRI-diagnosed uMTS, ages (17?55), education >8 yrs, without other MRI lesions or significant psychiatric/neurologic disease. Patients underwent video-EEG monitoring (VEEG), iEEG, WADA test and a NP battery [digit span, vocabulary and object assembly subtests (WAIS III), Stroop I,II,III, Trail Making Test, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), Boston Naming Test (BNT), Verbal Fluency (FAS), Rey Figure (Immediate and Late Recall)]. Patients were divided in four groups: right and left, unilateral or bilateral (RU, LU, RB and LB) by a laterality index obtained from a summated score of iEEG, VEEG and WADA, compared to MRI findings. Normal controls were matched by age and education. Scores on individual neuriopsychological tests were compared among all groups and controls. Results: 54 patients (30 or 56% men), 29 (or 54%) left MTS, education (10.6 ± 2.1yrs.) and 18 controls (4 or 22% men) education (11.1 ± 1.1yrs). 13 were RU, 20 LU, 12 RB and 9 LB.When comparing neuropsychological scores using MRI or iEEG isolatedly, classified as left or right, left MTS patients performed significantly worse in RAVLT (VI, VII and total score) and in FAS than controls and worse than controls and right MTS in BNT (p < 0.05, all tests) for both MRI or iEEG. When the 4 groups were compared, RU and LU differences disappeared. BL patients performed significantly worse than controls in RAVLT (VI, VII, total score), worse than controls, LU and RB in Stroop II and than RU in BNT. (p < 0.05, all tests). When iEEG was analyzed among the four groups, BL patients performed significantly worse than controls in RAVLT (VI, VII and total score) and worse than BR in BNT. Conclusions: Although it is widely accepted that left MTS patients show deficits in verbal learning and recall as well as confrontation naming, our data suggests that only patients with left MTS on MRI, but with bilateral involvement by other eletrophysiologic criteria (VEEG and iEEG) and cognitive functioning measures (WADA) perform significantly worse in episodic verbal memory and confrontation naming tasks. In this sample, pure left MTS patients do not show cognitive impairment in relation to right MTS patients (unilateral and bilateral) or controls. Bilateral temporal involvement with anatomic and/or functional involvement may be crucial for memory dysfunction in left temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Marina Drake, 2,1 Veronica De Simone, 2 Santiago O'Neill, 2 Maria E. Fontela, 2 Maria B. Viaggio, 2 Alfredo Thomson, and 1 Ricardo F. Allegri ( 1 Neuropsychology Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Britanico, Buenos Aires, Argentina ; and 2 Epilepsy Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) show impairment in confrontation naming tasks. Furthermore naming difficulties have been related to left temporal dysfunction. The objective of this study is to characterize naming difficulties in a group of temporal epileptic patients and further compare naming abilities between patients with right and left temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: Thirty three epileptic patients were matched for age and education with 31 healthy volunteers. Fourteen patients had left TLE epilepsy and nineteen right TLE. All patients were right handed with IQs within the normal range. All subjects were administered an extensive neuropsychological battery. Confrontation naming was explored using the Boston Naming Test adapted version for Argentina. Total number of correct responses and type of errors committed were analyzed. Errors were classified into 5 categories: semantic errors, phonemic errors, visual errors, circumlocutory errors or nonresponse. For analysis purposes only the first 40 naming errors were considered as previous local studies showed that naming deficits in the last 20 pictures is strongly influenced by education and cultural background. Results: The epilepsy group performed significantly worse than controls on a naming test (TLE = 46 ± 6 vs controls = 53 ± 2, p < 0.001). Type of errors were: 42% semantic, 32% nonresponses, 13% circumlocutory, 9% visual and only 1% phonemic errors. No naming differences were found between right and left TLE patients (p = 0.7). Conclusions: Temporal lobe epilepsy patients showed poor performance on a naming task compared to control subjects further supporting the language deficit observed in this population. The most common type of errors (anomia and semantic) reflect dysfunction of the semantic system. Surprisingly, no differences were found when right and left temporal epilepsy patients were compared. This finding might reflect functional reorganization of language-related neuronal networks in temporal lobe epilepsy. 1 Jelena Djordjevic, 1 Viviane Sziklas, 1 Dominique Piper, 1 Sidonie Penicaud, and 1 Marilyn Jones-Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University ) Rationale: Auditory naming tasks may be more appropriate than visual ones as a measure of potential word-finding difficulties in patients who are candidates for resection from the dominant anterior temporal lobe (1). We wished to optimize clinical usefulness of the existing auditory naming task (ANT) by creating a French version that would yield results similar to those obtained in English, and by increasing the number of items so that auditory naming results could be compared more directly with those from visual naming. Methods: To facilitate a more direct comparison of auditory naming with the visual naming task used most commonly (Boston Naming Test; BNT), we increased the number of items on the existing auditory naming task from 50 to 69 by adding 19 new items, then testing 119 healthy volunteers (53 francophone, 66 anglophone) on this longer version, and finally keeping the 60 items that gave the clearest results (i.e., elicited greatest agreement, fewest synonyms). To maximize equivalence between English and French versions, we compared results from anglophone and francophone subjects for each item, rejecting those on which language-group differences were greater than 25%. These normative data were then used to rearrange items in order of increasing difficulty separately in each language. We are now comparing performance on the revised ANT to BNT in patients (n = 20) with epileptic focus in a temporal lobe. Results: Comparison of mean correct responses on the 60-item ANT with those from the BNT showed a small, in absolute terms, but significant (p < .01) difference between tasks for healthy subjects, with BNT yielding the higher scores. There was a main effect of language, showing higher English than French scores on both tasks (p < .01). Patients with a left temporal-lobe focus earned lower scores on both naming tasks compared to those with a right temporal-lobe focus (p = .03); again ANT scores were lower overall than BNT scores. Conclusions: As reported also for the 50-item ANT (1), auditory naming remains more difficult than visual naming for healthy subjects. Thus, despite equating the ANT and BNT for number of items, scores cannot be compared directly, as the difference in difficulty should be taken into account. Our French version of the ANT yields scores that are highly similar to the English, although the French are slightly lower. The French ANT is already proving useful in language evaluation of francophone patients in Quebec. 1. Hamberger M, Seidel W. JINS (2003); 9:479?89. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Robert C. Doss, and 1,2 John R. Gates ( 1 Epilepsy, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, P.A., St. Paul, MN ; and 2 Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: The assessment and diagnosis of psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (NES) in inpatient epilepsy programs is very common (20?50% of admissions). The underlying etiology of NES can reflect a variety of conditions as denoted by the DSM-IV. The aim of this study was to determine the most common psychiatric diagnoses of NES in a comprehensively evaluated sample of patients. Methods: The sample consisted of 58 consecutive admissions to the adult inpatient epilepsy unit who were eventually diagnosed with NES via video-EEG monitoring. The determination of a psychogenic etiology was made after ruling out physiological causes, history review, neuropsychological and personality assessment (i.e., PAI), as well as psychiatric and/or psychological consultation. DSM-IV diagnoses were made by either a consulting psychiatrist or psychologist. Results: There were 58 NES patients (67% female) with an average age, education, and WAIS-III Full Scale IQ of 36.5, 13.2, and 94.0, respectively. Personality testing using the PAI showed a clinical elevation on the Somatic Complaints scale (Mean T-score = 70.0) with Conversion being the most elevated subscale in the profile (Mean T-score = 71.0). The most common preexisting psychiatric diagnoses included Depression (50%), PTSD (13.8%), other Anxiety (17.2%), Somatoform (13.8%), and Substance Abuse/Dependence (12.1%). Sixty-five percent (65%) of the sample reported a history of physical and/or sexual abuse. The final DSM-IV diagnosis for the NES was overwhelmingly Conversion Disorder (74.1%) and Somatoform Disorder NOS (8.6%). The remaining diagnoses for the NES included various anxiety, dissociative, and factitious disorders (17.3%). Conclusions: In an inpatient epilepsy monitoring unit, the vast majority of NES cases confirmed by video-EEG are diagnosed as Conversion Disorder according to DSM-IV criteria. That is, the NES are thought to reflect psychological factors (unconscious or not) that are manifested by pseudoneurological symptoms or deficits. Other less common diagnoses include panic attacks and dissociation associated with PTSD and/or a primary dissociative disorder. An accurate psychiatric diagnosis of NES is important in that treatment will necessarily be dictated by the underlying psychological disorder. Furthermore, diagnostic accuracy relies on a multidisciplinary approach that considers both the patient's medical and psychosocial history and current functioning. 1,5 Mario F. Dulay, 1,2,5 Harvey S. Levin, 1,2,5 Michele K. York, 2,5 Daniel Yoshor, 3 Robert G. Grossman, 4,5 Amit Verma, 4,5 Ian L. Goldsmith, and 4,5,6 Eli M. Mizrahi ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) ; 2 Department of Neurosurgery, BCM ; 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Methodist Hospital ; 4 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, BCM ; 5 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, BCM ; and 6 Section of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, BCM ) Rationale: Depression and anxiety are the most common psychiatric disorders found in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) before and after anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL). Severity of depression is associated with neuropsychological impairment in TLE patients. No previous study has characterized the relationship between the presence of depression/anxiety and changes in memory function after ATL. Methods: We studied 56 patients (ages 17?56 years) who underwent ATL for refractory epilepsy. Patient data were divided into four groups: left-ATL with (n = 10) and without (n = 13) psychiatric disturbance and right-ATL with (n = 17) and without (n = 16) psychiatric disturbance. There were no significant differences between groups in age, education, age at seizure onset, duration of illness, pre-ATL seizure frequency and post-ATL seizure outcome. Retrospective chart review was used to determine the presence of psychiatric disturbance (mood and anxiety disorders), which was based on recommendations for psychiatric treatment after ATL made by the attending neuropsychologist. Patients were included if they had an IQ >84 to ensure that memory deficit was not attributable to generalized cognitive impairment. Memory abilities were assessed an average of 5 months before surgery and an average of 11 months after surgery using the Verbal and Nonverbal Selective Reminding Tests. Results: Twenty-seven patients (48% of the sample) received recommendations for psychiatric treatment after surgery: 13 for mood disorders, 2 for anxiety disorders, and 12 for comorbid mood and anxiety disorders. Repeated measures ANOVA indicated that left-ATL patients with psychiatric disturbance had the largest verbal memory reductions from before to after surgery compared to all other groups (Tukey post-hoc p values <.01). There was also a drop in the number of words recalled by left-ATL patients without psychiatric disturbance, but the reduction was significantly greater for left-ATL patients with psychiatric disturbance. On the other hand, there was slight improvement in verbal recall ability for right-ATL patients after surgery regardless of psychiatric status. There were no significant interactions or main effects for nonverbal memory. Conclusions: Our results suggest that besides side of excision, the presence of depression and anxiety should be taken into account when evaluating verbal memory deficits after ATL. Questions remain regarding whether or not verbal memory deficits will improve after ATL if psychiatric symptoms are remediated with psychotherapeutic or psychopharmaceutic interventions. 1 Darren Fuerst, 1 Adele Haber, 1 Michelle Kieski, 1 Jay Shah, 1 Aashit Shah, and 1 Craig Watson ( 1 Neurology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: List learning has generally been less useful for the localization of temporal lobe seizures than has story recall. It has been hypothesized that executive functions may play a role in the learning, recall, and recognition of word lists. The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which list learning and executive functioning measures are correlated. Methods: A total of 161 subjects took part in the study. Of these, 74 subjects were left temporal lobe epileptics, 55 were right temporal lobe epileptics, and 32 subjects had bi-temporal onset or could not be lateralized by EEG. The word list learning measure used in this study was the CVLT. The variables used from the CVLT were the z-scores of the number of words recalled on Trials 1, 5, and 1?5 total, short delay free and cued recall, long delayed free and cued recall, number of hits and false positives on recognition testing, number of perseverations, semantic clustering, and serial clustering. Executive functioning measures consisted of the Trail Making Testing B, lexical fluency (CFL), and measures from the Wisconsin Card Sort Test, including total responses, total correct, total errors, perseverative responses, perseverative errors, and the number of categories completed. Results: Overall, in the entire sample only Trails B reached statistical and practical significance its relationship with Trials 1, 5, and total 1?5, short delay free recall, short delay cued recall, and long delay free recall. None of the other measures correlated significantly and substantially. When subjects were divided into long delay free recall greater or less than -2, the only correlation of significance was between Trails B and total 1?5, for each group. When left temporal onset patients were examined, only Trails B correlated with trials 1, 5, and 1?5 total, and long delay free recall. For right temporal patients, Trails B correlated with Trials 1?5, short delay free and cued, and long delay free and cued recall. Also, for these subjects a number of WCST measures correlated with these variables. Conclusions: In general, word list learning is not related to executive functioning in temporal lobe epilepsy. This conclusion may be tempered somewhat in right temporal lobe patients, in which the relationship deserves further study. 1 Anna R. Giovagnoli, 2 Rute F. Meneses, and 1 Antonio Martins Da Silva ( 1 Neuropathology and Neurology, ?Carlo Besta? National Neurological Institute, Milano, Italy ; 2 FCHS-Fernando Pessoa University and IBCM-University of Porto, Porto, Portugal ; and 3 ICBAS/IBCM-University of Porto and Hospital Geral Santo Antonio, Porto, Portugal ) Rationale: Although the quality of life (QOL) of patients with chronic brain damage may reflect common stressing conditions, different facets and determinants may characterize the QOL of patients with different diagnosis. This study evaluated patients with partial epilepsy aiming to compare personal dimensions of their QOL with respect to patients with other chronic brain diseases. Methods: Sixty-four adult patients with partial epilepsy (n = 36) and other chronic neurological diseases associated with brain lesion (vascular, tumour, or inflammatory) (n = 28) were evaluated after informed consent. They reported self-evaluation of QOL, mood and cognitive efficiency using the WHO QOL-100 and Spiritual, Religious and Personal Beliefs scales, Beck Depression Inventory, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, and Multiple Ability Self-Report Questionnaire. Neuropsychological tests assessed reasoning, attention, language, visual perception, memory and executive abilities. Results: T statistics comparing the two patient groups did not show any difference in the total WHO QOL-100 score. On the contrary, significant differences emerged in spirituality dimensions, with minor feelings of peace (p = 0.01) and life meaning (p = 0.02) in the epilepsy patients, and in neuropsychological performances (p = 0.01), with higher scores at attention and praxis tests in the epilepsy patients. Although not significantly so, the epilepsy patients were more anxious and depressed but perceived better cognitive abilities than the other patients. In the epilepsy group, the WHO QOL-100 total score significantly correlated with the feelings of peace (r = 0.56, p = 0.006), state-anxiety (r =?0.52, p = 0.01), trait-anxiety (r =?0.58, p = 0.005), and depression (r =?0.62, p = 0.002), as revealed by separate Pearson's tests. In the other patient group, the WHO QOL-100 total score significantly correlated with feelings of life meaning (r = 0.47, p = 0.01), hope (r = 0.536, p = 0.003), openness (r = 0.61, p = 0.001), forgiveness (r = 0.49, p = 0.008), self-esteem (r = 0.62, p < 0.001), state-anxiety (r =?0.78, p < 0.001), trait-anxiety (r =?0.93, p < 0.001), depression (r =?0.79, p < 0.001), and the subjective perception of cognitive efficiency (r =?0.65, p = 0.006). Conclusions: These preliminary results suggest that QOL, as expressed by a single index, may appear similar in epilepsy patients and patients with other chronic brain diseases. However, they differ in spiritual facets, mood, and cognitive abilities. Even if in both groups mood has a central place in the perception of QOL, the subjective appraisal of health may reflect the interaction of different inner factors. Future studies are needed to determine the spectrum of psychological and spiritual facets relating to epilepsy, promoting specific health interventions. 1 David S. Glosser, 1 Dayna A. Leis, 1 Joseph I. Tracy, and 1 Michael R. Sperling ( 1 Neurology, Jefferson Epilepsy Center, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Mood disorders are frequent co-morbidities in epilepsy and may be accompanied by polysomatic complaints. Studies of temporal lobectomy patients have reported post-surgical mood changes with right vs left laterality differences. Among non-epilepsy patients, right hemisphere lesions have been associated with diminished awareness of physical impairments. A sample of right (R) vs left (L) temporal lobectomy S's with pre and 1-yr. post surgical measures was compared to evaluate the effect of surgery and laterality on Anxiety (anx.), Depression (dep.), and Somatization (somat.). Methods: We prospectively studied 20 (L) and 12 (R) side sequentially admitted temporal lobectomy patients, 16 male, and compared Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) Anxiety, Depression, Somatization subtest scores pre and 1-yr. post surgery. Pre-surgical duration of epilepsy, age at surgery, gender, and IQ were assessed. The PAI is a reliable  R = 98. L vs R sample equivalency was challenged by a significantly lower number of R side cases returning for 1 yr. post testing. Females and males, L  while L S's improved only on somat. scores and had no improvement in anxiety or depression. This is consistent with reports that L hemisphere lesions more likely produce mood deterioration; while R damage is associated with decreased appreciation of physical impairment and, occasionally, denial of illness/injury. Alternatively, the combination of L focus and post-surg sz reduction may deprive patients of anti-depressant effects of seizures. Hence, while L side patients' depression and anxiety did not improve, the reduction in seizures produced reduced somat. scores. Though higher post-surgical somatic complaints might have been expected in dominant hemisphere surgery, due to increased threat to language, this did not occur. The greater pre-surgical sz duration of the L patients may reflect reluctance to operate on the dominant hemisphere. Although higher depression, anxiety, and somatization has often been reported among females, this was not seen. 1 Arthur C. Grant, 1 Sayeh Beheshti, 1 Pany Tehrani, 2 Roxan F. Saidi, 1 Olivia Aguilar, 1 Veronica Martin, and 1 Stephanie Moore ( 1 Neurology, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA ; and 2 Medicine, St. Joseph's Hospital, Orange, CA ) Rationale: Limited English language skills complicate neuropsychometric assessment and Wada testing in patients with refractory TLE undergoing pre-surgical evaluation. The patient population at our institution is culturally and ethnically diverse. For many patients English is a second or third language, and is understood and spoken with varying expertise. Although administering the neuropsychological component of the Wada test in a patient's native language is desirable, direct translation of English-language Wada protocols into other languages does not account for cultural or language-specific content. Methods: Our Wada test is a modification of one used at several epilepsy centers. It includes repetition and recall of spoken words and phrases, with additional foil words and phrases used when testing memory performance. Several of the phrases have cultural (e.g. ?My country ?tis of Thee?) and/or language-specific (e.g. ?Mary had a little lamb?) significance that would be lost with direct translation to other languages. We used a combination of culturally congruent substitutions and direct translations to adapt our Wada protocol for use with both Mexican-born Spanish and Iranian-born Farsi speaking patients. In addition, we attempted to preserve phrase length and general semantic content as much as possible. For instance, instead of ?Mary had a little lamb,? the Farsi version uses a strikingly similar line from a well-known Persian nursery rhyme, ?gaveh Hassan chejooreh?? (How is Hassan's cow?), and the Spanish version uses a line from a familiar lullaby, ?Los pollitos dicen pio pio? (The chicks say pio pio). Instead of ?My country ?tis of Thee? we substituted ?Mexico lindo? in the Spanish version and ?zardee-ye man az tow? (My yellowness is from you) in the Farsi version. The latter phrase is part of a traditional exclamation made during a ritual associated with the Persian new year celebration. Medically-trained native speakers administered the protocol to one Farsi speaking and two Spanish speaking patients, under the direct supervision of a neuropsychologist. Results: The procedure was administered without difficulty to all three patients, and was scored using criteria developed for the original English version. In all three patients, Wada memory and language results were consistent with other clinical data, and were incorporated into the surgical decision-making process. Conclusions: Although the number of patients is small, these data suggest that culturally-sensitive adaptations of English-language Wada protocols provide reliable results, and can be used without independent validation in a large number of patients. (Supported in part by NIH K23 NS46347 to ACG.) 1 Jennifer K. Bambara, 2 H. Randall Griffith, 2 Roy C. Martin, and 2 Edward Faught ( 1 Psychology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ; and 2 Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: It has become important to understand the potential cognitive problems that older adults with epilepsy might encounter. We previously demonstrated cognitive impairments in epilepsy seniors. To further investigate potential cognitive declines in epilepsy seniors, we conducted a prospective study of cognitive performance across a three-year time span. Methods: Fifteen epilepsy seniors averaging 68 years of age (range 62?77) at follow-up were studied. Participants had partial-onset seizures for 34 years on average. All participants completed measures of overall cognition, attention, language, memory, construction, abstraction, executive function, and mood at baseline and at an average follow-up interval of 3.1 years. Results: Epilepsy seniors showed worsening executive control over the follow-up period as measured by the Executive Interview Test (EXIT), t(13) =?3.06, p = .009. A trend towards significance was observed for poorer performance on WMS-III Logical Memory I (p = .06). There were no other changes observed in neuropsychological test performance or mood across the follow-up interval (all p values >.10). Conclusions: Across three years, epilepsy seniors had diminished executive control with some evidence of decreased verbal recall. Otherwise, stability in cognitive functioning was observed. Older adults with epilepsy appear prone to selective worsening of executive control. Numerous factors could contribute to executive dyscontrol, including brain atrophy related to continued seizures and/or cognitive effects of medications due to age-related changes in pharmacokinetics. Further study is necessary to determine what factors contribute to worsening executive dyscontrol in epilepsy seniors. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation of America and Centers for Disease Control.) Observed Neuropsychological Performance of Epilepsy Seniors at Baseline and Three-year Follow-up Neuropsychological ?Measure ?Baseline ?Follow-up ?P Value DRS Total Score 129.07 (8.66)? 128.20 (7.49)? .69? DRS Attention 34.80 (1.70) 34.47 (1.30) .44? DRS Initiation 32.67 (3.48) 32.07 (4.37) .54? DRS Construction ?5.20 (1.26) 5.80 (.56) .14? DRS Conceptualization 34.40 (3.58) 32.33 (7.81) .38? DRS Memory 22.00 (2.33) 21.33 (2.47) .47? WMS III Logical Memory Immediate 26.07 (7.98) 22.87 (9.05) .06? WMS III Logical Memory Delay 13.53 (7.30) 11.80 (6.70) .20? WMS III Recognition* 22.33 (2.77) 21.64 (4.27) .52? CFL Word Fluency* 25.79 (10.51) 22.80 (11.76) .33? Boston Naming Test 44.53 (13.55) 43.07 (13.15) .43? WRAT III Reading** 39.77 (4.94)? 40.79 (4.76) .87? EXIT Total Score* 11.71 (3.81) 14.20 (4.23) .009 Geriatric Depression Scale Total Score* 8.79 (4.66) ?8.60 (6.20) .96? *n = 14 participants **n = 12 participants 1 Guadalupe Rojas, 2 Maria Gudin, 2 Amalia Hernández, 2 Ibanez Ramon, and 2 Vaamonde Julia ( 1 Psychiatry, Ntra Sra de Alarcos Hospital, Ciudad Real, Castilla la Mancha, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Ntra Sra de Alarcos Hospital, Ciudad Real, Castilla la Mancha, Spain ) Rationale: Pseudo seizures are paroxysmal alterations in behavior that resemble seizures but are without any organic cause. The objective of this work is to analyze the underlying psychiatric pathology of patients with pseudoseizures in a general outpatient clinic. Methods: A retrospective study of patients that underwent EEG due to a suspicion of pseudo seizures was realized. The clinical history, psychiatry diagnosis and EEG NONITORING were reviewed in sixteen patients (M/F: 10/6), middle age 40,6 years. All of them were studied by EEG monitoring, pseudoseizures seizures were recorded in 10 of these 16 patients, the other six had a high clinical suspicion. In 8 patients coexisted the pseudoseizures with epilepsy, 1 had migraine, 1 was diagnosed o syncopes, the rest of them did not have a clear epilepsy diagnosis. Results: Four patients did not have a clear psychiatric pathology. Five patients were malingering with clear secondary gain. One of the subjects admitted self-induced illness and spontaneously improved after video EEG monitoring. The others ameliorated after retirement from their work. One patient had Alcohol Dependence. Four patients had an Anxiety Disorder NOS, 1 was a Depressive Disorder, 1 patient had an Impulse-Control Disorder NOS, 7 patients were diagnosed of different Personality Disorder, all of those patients were women. The women improved when the socio familial circumstances changed. Men experienced some change when social aspects were modified. Conclusions: The women with pseudoseizures had been diagnosed basically of Personality Disorders. Men had secondary gain, or no clear psychiatric diagnosis. In this study we verify the importance of a psychiatric management to obtain adequate pseudoseizures control. 1 Hajo M. Hamer, 1 Anja Haag, 1 Johannes Dorst, 1 Felix Rosenow, and 1 Susanne Knake ( 1 Neurology, Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany ) Rationale: Identification of eloquent cortex is a crucial issue in the preoperative assessment of patients with medically intractable epilepsy to reduce the risk of postoperative cognitive decline. Functional transcranial Doppler sonography (fTCD) is already a well established tool for language lateralisation. In this study we evaluated a fTCD-paradigm that reliably lateralises to the non-dominant hemisphere. Methods: 30 right handed healthy controls (17 male; 13 female age = 27,1 ± 7,5) participated in the study. While measuring cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) simultaneously and continuously in both middle cerebral arteries (MCA), all patients performed a mental rotation paradigm (cube filled with three ropes had to be rotated mentally to imagine views from different sides). The paradigm consisted of 20 activation and resting periods. In addition, the already established lexical fluency paradigm for language lateralisation was performed. Data were analysed offline with the software Average?, which performs a heart-cycle integration and a baseline-correction and calculated a laterality index (LI) with its standard error of the mean increase in blood flow separately for both MCA during activation. Results: One out of the 30 participants showed atypical right hemispheric language dominance and was excluded from further analysis. 21 participants (72%) of the 29 with left hemispheric language dominance showed right hemispheric dominance in the mental rotation paradigm. 7 (24%) patients generated greater left than right hemispheric activation and one participant did not show any lateralisation. There was no significant correlation between the LI in the mental rotation paradigm and test performance and no significant negative correlation between the LI of the mental rotation and the language paradigm. Conclusions: In more than two thirds of the participants the mental rotation paradigm showed a right hemispheric lateralisation. So far, mental rotation appears to be one of the best paradigm to activate predominantly the non-dominant hemisphere in fTCD. Participants will be interviewed to elucidate whether different especially verbal strategies could be responsible for left hemispheric lateralisation in some participants. Evaluation of this paradigm in epileptic patients is warranted. 1 Cynthia L. Harden, 2 Janice M. Buelow, 3 Joyce Cramer, 4 Carl B. Dodrill, 1 Blagovest Nikolov, and 1 Kenneth Perrine ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY ; 2 Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ; 3 Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, West Haven, CT ; and 4 Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Mood disorders are prevalent in persons with epilepsy. As part of the Epilepsy Foundation of America's initiative on mood disorders, a professional education subcommittee developed a survey to assess knowledge of and attitudes and practices towards mood disorders in epilepsy. Methods: The survey entitled ?Mood in Epilepsy Neurology Practice Questionnaire? consisted of 14 questions including three demographic items. A 5-degree Likert scale was developed for most answer choices. The survey was piloted by some attendees of the American Epilepsy Society (AES) meeting in December 2004. Unselected attendees who passed by the EFA booth were asked to complete the anonymous, 1-page survey. Results: Ninety-nine responses were obtained and the total number of answers to selected questions are listed below. 1 How often do you ask epilepsy patients about their mood? Never 2/Rarely 4/Sometimes 21/Often 47/Always 25 2 How much do you think that symptoms of a mood disorder are important factors in determining an epilepsy patient's quality of life? Very little 2/To a mild degree 1/Somewhat 2/Quite a bit 46/A lot 48 3 When you diagnose a mood disorder in an epilepsy patient, how often do you initiate a medication to treat it (medication for depression, anxiety, etc)? Never 4/Rarely 15/Sometimes 37/Often 39/Always 4 4 When you diagnose a mood disorder in an epilepsy patient with a mood disorder, how often do you refer the patient to a psychiatrist for initiation of treatment? Never 2/Rarely 14/Sometimes 34/Often 38/Always 11 5 How frequently do you limit your prescribing of antidepressants because of concern about exacerbating seizures? Always 1/Often 7/Sometimes 31/Rarely 41/Never 18 6 Your age in years 25?35 = 14/35?45 = 38/45?55 = 21/55?65 = 18/65 and older = 1 7 Type of Practice Adult Neuro ?Academic 32/Adult Neuro ? Private 5/Adult Epi?Academic 15/Adult Epi?Private 1/Ped Neuro?Academic13/Ped Neuro ? Private3/Ped Epi ?Academic12/Ped Epi? Private 2 8 Number of Years in Practice 1?9 = 41/10?20 = 18/> than 20 = 27 Conclusions: These results reflect the youthful and highly academic membership of the AES who are well-informed about the importance of mood disorders in epilepsy, and are very likely to either initiate antidepressant medication or refer for that purpose. Further, concern about exacerbating seizures is not a reason for withholding antidepressant medication among these practitioners. These findings suggest that educational efforts regarding mood disorders and epilepy have favorably impacted the practices of AES members, but whether this holds true in a larger group of general neurology practictioners assessed in a less biased manner remains to be determined. 1 Chin-Wei Huang, 1 Yi-Jung Hsieh, 1 Ming-Chyi Pai, and 1 Jing-Jane Tsai ( 1 Epileptology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; Pediatrics, Chi-Mei Foundation Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; Behavioral Neurology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan; and Epileptology and Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan ) Rationale: Cognitive impairment in epilepsy has gained much attention in clinical practice. most of them are focused on the seizure type, age at seizure onset, seizure duration, antiepileptic drugs and epilepsy surgery. Few studies specifically focused on cryptogenic epilepsy. In addition, how the cognitive performance in cryptogenic epilepsy responds to treatment remains elusive. Methods: We investigated the cognitive performance in cryptogenic epilepsy patients with the aid of cognitive ability screening instrument (CASI), based on cross-sectional and longitudinal aspects. One hundred patients met the diagnostic criteria of cryptogenic epilepsy were recruited from a national university hospital. The patients with normal total CASI scores were compared with those with abnormal ones. We also compared the follow-up CASI score after 3 years with the previous one in all cryptogenic epilepsy patients. Demographic and clinical variables of cryptogenic epilepsy patients with normal and abnormal total CASI scores as well as univariate analysis ??Characteristics Normal ?CASI ?(n = 64) Abnormal ?CASI ?(n = 36) ??Odds Ratio ?Confidence ?Interval Age(years) ?<25 17 10 1 - ?25?34 22 ?7 0.36 0.13?1.19 ?35?44 11 ?6 0.80 0.24?3.11 ?>45 14 13 1.37 0.58?3.85 Sex ?male 36 16 1 - ?female 28 20 1.53 0.62?4.60 Education ?<6 years ?4 ?7 3.71 0.14?4.32 ?6-8 years 12 13 5.85 1.01?8.30 ?>8 years 48 16 1 - Disease duration ?<5 years ?7 ?4 1 - ?5?10 years 17 ?7 0.64 0.14?1.69 ?>10 years 40 25 2.41 0.65?5.42 Number of seizure types ???1 31 13 ?1 - ???>2 33 23 2.83 0.66?4.26 Number of AEDs ?none ?8 ?2 1 - ?1 23 10 2.1 0.22?5.66 ?>2 33 24 5.2 0.81?10.73 1 The performance in Cognitive Ability Screening Instrument among patiets with crytogenic epilepsy. Black bar, initial score, gray bar, the following score, A: The group with initial normal total CASI score, B: The group with initial abnormal total CASI score group. Figure 1A. Results: 36% of cryptogenic epilepsy patients showed cognitive impairment. The variables correlated with higher risks of cognitive impairment were lower educational status, number of seizure types, duration of seizure and polytherapy, especially the lower educational status. The correlation between CASI and the MMSE was excellent. As to the follow-up study, the abnormal group showed significant improvement in total CASI score. The normal group showed no significant change. Conclusions: We suggest that in cryptogenic epilepsy, lower educational status remains the most important factor in determining cognitive performance. Adequate treatment with anti-epileptic drugs can improve cognitive performance in previously cognitively impaired patients. (Supported by National Cheng Kung University Hospital.) 1 David Isaradisaikul, 2 Kelly A. McNally, 1 Jason M. Meckler, 1 Michael D. Privitera, 2 Bruce K. Schefft, and 1 Jerzy P. Szaflarski ( 1 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Psychology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) often manifest differently in different patients. Selwa et al. (Epilepsia 2000; 41(10): 1330?1334) developed a system of PNES classification to describe different types of spells. Previous research has demonstrated that patients with PNES are commonly associated with elevations on the hypochondriasis and hysteria scales of the MMPI. In the present study, we sought to investigate the relationship between PNES spell type and MMPI profiles. Methods: We reviewed video-EEG reports and MMPIs in 86 patients diagnosed with definite PNES after inpatient video-EEG monitoring at the University of Cincinnati between January 2000 and March 2003. Definite PNES was defined as habitual spells recorded on video-EEG without an ictal EEG discharge and normal background alpha rhythm during the event. The diagnosis of PNES was based on the results of the prolonged video-EEG monitoring (PVEM), clinical characteristics of the events recorded, and other supporting evidence (e.g., neuropsychological testing/MMPI). Patients with mixed PNES and epileptic seizures were excluded. Based on review of spells, each patient was classified as predominantly or exclusively belonging to the catatonic, thrashing, automatisms, tremor, intermittent, or subjective categories of nonepileptic seizure type based on Selwa's classification. MMPI data were collected on each patient as part of the standard neuropsychological battery obtained prior to discussion of the diagnosis with the patient. Results: We found that the largest groups consisted of patients with intermittent (n = 22), subjective (n = 21), and thrashing (n = 19) types of PNES. Analysis of variance results indicated that there was a significant effect of PNES spell type on MMPI standardized T-scores on a combination of the hypochondriasis scale (1) and the hysteria scale (3) (F = 3.87, p = 0.003). Post-hoc pairwise comparisons with a Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons revealed that patients with catatonic-type PNES had significantly lower scores on scales 1 and 3 than all other PNES types. No other MMPI scales were found to be significantly related to PNES spell type. Conclusions: We found that patients classified with catatonic-type PNES had significantly lower scores on the hypochondriasis and hysteria scales of the MMPI, as compared to all other types of PNES. According to previous research, patients in the catatonic subgroup tended to have a better outcome than other PNES types. This improved outcome in the catatonic group may be related to their decreased pathology on MMPI scales 1 and 3. 1 Donya L. James, 1 Mike R. Schoenberg, 1 Kyra A. Dawson, 1 Pamela Lang, and 1 Mary Ann Werz ( 1 Neurology, University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: There is conflicting data in the literature regarding material-specific memory deficits in patients with epilepsy (Kim et al., 2003). Some research suggests that patients with left hemisphere seizure lateralization have decreased capacity for verbal memory while patients with right hemisphere seizure lateralization have decreased capacity for visual memory. Subsequent research has not been able to fully confirm these findings. Methods: The participants were 23 patients diagnoses with epilepsy whose seizure lateralization evaluation including the Wechsler Memory Scale- 3rd Edition. Results: Primary Index scores [e.g. Auditory Immediate Memory (IM), Visual Immediate Memory (VI), General Memory Immediate (IM), Verbal Memory Delayed (AD), Visual Memory Delayed (VD), Auditory Recognition Memory Delayed (ARD), and General Delayed Memory (GM)] were compared using ANOVA. Significant differences were found between AI index scores and ARD index scores. Patients with right hemisphere seizure lateralization scored significantly better on both indexes. There were no significant differences between the groups on other WMS-III indexes. Conclusions: The study provides further support for differences in patients performance on material-specific memory tests. However, the degree of lateralization is less pronounced in patients with epilepsy having left hemisphere epileptic focus. This research provides further evidence of material specific memory deficits on the WMS-III, although not for delayed memory. Patients with right lateralization of seizure activity perform better on tasks of immediate recall of auditory information as well as tasks involving the recognition of verbal information after a delay. 1 S. Kennepohl, 1 V. Sziklas, and 1 M. Jones-Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: We have previously raised a question whether the well-known hemispheric difference in memory function might be process-specific as well as material-specific1,2; i.e., related to both novelty vs. familiarity and verbal vs. nonverbal material. To test this question using neuroimaging, recognition memory must be used; our prior results with patients used recall. We have developed a single recognition memory protocol to be used in both clinical and neuroimaging research. Methods: We use 4 types of stimulus dichotomized along verbal/nonverbal and novel/familiarity dimensions (abstract words, nonsense words, drawings of objects and abstract designs). For each stimulus type, the task consists of two learning/recognition trials and a delayed recognition trial. The fMRI task differs from that used in clinical research primarily in that it uses a block design for item presentation (alternating blocks of stimuli and baseline items), includes a simple perceptual decision task (is item primarily ?straight? or ?curvy?) to ensure fixation during encoding, and does not use an interference task between learning and delayed recognition. Comparability of the two versions was assessed with groups of matched neurologically healthy participants (fMRI vs. clinical version; n = 35 and n = 18, respectively). A small sample of individuals with either primarily left- or right-sided temporal lobe (TL) epilepsy was tested using the clinical version. Results: Our results show that healthy individuals demonstrate significant learning over the two first trials, with little-to-no forgetting following a delay. ANOVAs revealed: 1) no effect of version; 2) main effect of novelty (familiar > novel); 3) main effect of material (?nonverbal? > verbal); 4) main effect of trial. Significant interactions showed poor initial learning of novel material (with bigger improvements on Trial 2), and better overall recognition of drawings of objects. Preliminary results with a small sample of patients suggests that those with a left TL focus improve much more on learning novel than familiar material, whereas those with a right TL focus show little change over trials. Conclusions: We have developed a simple yes-no recognition memory protocol allowing study of material- and process-specific learning/retention using an almost identical paradigm in fMRI or clinical testing. The clinical and fMRI versions of the task appear directly comparable with respect to memory performance. To our knowledge, this represents the first learning/memory protocol using an identical paradigm, potentially yielding complementary information about brain regions active during memory compared with the result of focal lesions. The novelty/familiarity dimension yielded a large effect, confirming the importance of this factor in learning, and may be particularly salient in elucidating laterality effects in temporal-lobe epilepsy. REFERENCES 1.?Majdan et al JCEN (1996); 18: 416?30. 2.?Jones-Gotman et al Neuropsychologia (1997); 35: 963?73 (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Robyn M. Busch, 1 Thomas W. Frazier, 1 Kathryn A. Haggerty, and 1 Cynthia S. Kubu ( 1 Psychiatry  Right = 122) to examine potential factors that may moderate the relationship between BNT performance and seizure lateralization and to determine the incremental validity of this measure in predicting seizure lateralization. Results: The results support the clinical utility of the BNT in determining ultimate side of surgery and indicate that age of seizure onset strongly moderates this relationship. BNT performance was helpful in identifying ultimate side of surgery in patients with later age of seizure onset (i.e., >6 years). This relationship was not apparent in patients with younger age of seizure onset. In addition, site of seizure focus (i.e., temporal vs. nontemporal) approached significance as a moderating variable with more robust relationships apparent in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. FSIQ and duration of epilepsy were not significant moderating variables. Hierarchical logistic regression analyses supported the role of the BNT in predicting ultimate side of surgery and further demonstrated that this instrument has incremental validity over and beyond memory and IQ laterality scores. Conclusions: This study supports the clinical utility of the BNT in the pre-operative evaluation of candidates for epilepsy surgery, particularly for patients with later seizure onset. REFERENCES 1.?Kubu CS, Carswell L, Harnadek M, Galvan N. The diagnostic utility of the Boston and Benton Naming Tests in epilepsy [abstract]. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2001;7(2):210. 2.?Schefft BK, Testa SM, Dulay MF et al Preoperative assessment of confrontation naming ability and interictal paraphasia production in unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy. Epilepsy Behav. 2003;4: 161?168. 1 Jennifer J. Loyden, 1 Bruce K. Schefft, 1 Steven R. Howe, 2 Dean Beebe, and 3 Michael D. Privitera ( 1 Psychology, Unniversity of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; 2 Psychology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ; and 3 Neurology, University Hospital, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Approximately 2% of the population is diagnosed with epilepsy and about one third of those diagnosed will develop intractable epilepsy (Snyder, 1998). Thus, surgical intervention, particularly anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL), has become a widely used form of treatment for those with medically uncontrolled seizures (Engel, 1996) and has a success rate of about 80% (Janszky et al., 2005; Olivier, 1988). Previous studies have found unilateral hippocampal atrophy, side of surgery, and duration of seizures to be significantly predictive of seizure control after ATL (Jeong et al., 1999; Olivier, 1988). Additionally, studies have shown that patients with higher preoperative IQ and language scores and lower preoperative verbal memory scores have good seizure control post ATL (Chelune et al., 1991; Chelune et al., 1998; Hennessey et al., 2001). The primary goal of this study was to determine changes in cognitive functioning after ATL and to identify predictors of favorable seizure and cognitive outcome post-surgically. For seizure outcome, the predictors included hippocampal integrity, seizure laterality and duration, and pre-surgical cognitive functioning. For cognitive outcome, the predictors examined were hippocampal integrity, seizure laterality and duration, and seizure outcome. Methods: Data from a convenience sample of 36 patients who underwent ATL for relief from medically intractable seizures were included in this study. Surgery was performed at University Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio. All participants underwent prolonged video/EEG monitoring and pre- and post-surgical neuropsychological evaluations. Seizure outcome was determined according to Engel's classification system. Results: Approximately 60% of patients' overall IQ and verbal memory scores improved or remained the same following ATL. The majority of these patients were seizure free post surgery, and those who improved on verbal memory tasks had undergone right ATL. Additionally, patients who were seizure free following ATL significantly improved on an executive functioning task. Interestingly, more than half of the patients declined on nonverbal memory and confrontation naming post right ATL. Multiple regression analyses demonstrated that only pre-surgical cognitive scores were significantly predictive of seizure outcome F(8,15) = 2.713, p < .05), accounting for 59% of the variance. Futher, regression analyses yielded statistically significant main effects for nonverbal memory and confrontation naming (t(29) = -2.43, p < .05 and t(29) = 2.27, p < .05, respectively). Conclusions: The results demonstrate that patients improved on most measures of cognitive functioning. Further, cognitive improvement appeared to be greatest in patients who were seizure free following ATL. Higher pre-surgical cognitive scores were predictive of seizure relief post surgery. 1 Carrie R. McDonald, 1 Dean C. Delis, 1 Marc A. Norman, 2 Evelyn S. Tecoma, and 2 Vicente J. Iragui ( 1 Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA ; and 2 Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA ) Rationale: Executive dysfunction is common in patients with frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE) and is thought to be secondary to underlying frontal lobe dysfunction. However, executive dysfunction has also been reported in a subset of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Thus, the specificity of executive dysfunction to FLE versus TLE is unclear. In addition, the degree of executive dysfunction in these populations may be related to disease-specific variables, including the side of the seizure focus, presence of a structural lesion, and/or the age of seizure onset. The goal of this investigation was to determine (1) the nature and extent of executive dysfunction in patients with FLE and TLE and (2) the relationships between disease-specific variables and executive dysfunction. Methods: Participants in this investigation were 23 patients with FLE (10 left, 11 right, one bilateral), 20 patients with TLE (11 left, 8 right, one bilateral), and 23 age- and education-matched controls. Fifteen patients with FLE had MRI-confirmed frontal lobe lesions. All patients with TLE had mesial temporal sclerosis. All participants completed the Delis-Kaplan Executive Functions System. Test performances were adjusted for age, gender, and education and transformed to a common metric (z scores). Composite z-scores were created for each of the following domains: switching, inhibition, fluency, abstraction, and planning. Results: Results revealed that patients with FLE were impaired relative to controls in switching, inhibition, fluency, and abstraction, but not planning. Conversely, patients with TLE were found to be significantly impaired only in fluency relative to controls, although their performances across domains were decreased and did not differ from those with FLE. In the FLE group, correlation analyses did not reveal a relationship between age of seizure onset and any domain of executive functioning. Instead, a left-sided seizure focus and structural lesions were associated with poorer performances. In patients with TLE, an early age of seizure onset was related to greater impairment in one domain (i.e., abstraction) regardless of the side of the seizure focus. Conclusions: Executive dysfunction in patients with FLE is pervasive and appears to depend on the side of the seizure focus and presence of structural pathology. In patients with TLE, executive dysfunction is relatively subtle but may be more pronounced in those with an early seizure onset. These findings are consistent with past research indicating that executive dysfunction is present in patients with FLE and TLE. However, our research extends the literature by demonstrating that the nature, extent, and disease-specific correlates of executive dysfunction differ between the patient groups. (Supported by an Epilepsy Foundation Research Fellowship Award and a NIMH Training Grant T32-MH18399.) 1 Kelly A. McNally, 1 Steven Howe, 1 Bruce K. Schefft, and 2 Michael D. Privitera ( 1 Psychology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: Neuropsychological test results are often used in the differential diagnosis of epileptic seizures (ES) and psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES). However, since deficits have been reported in both groups, simply investigating overall performance may not be sufficient. It may be important for neuropsychologists to shift their attention to the qualitative differences in test responses between patients with PNES and ES. Signal Detection Theory (SDT) can be used to investigate differential response patterns on recognition memory tasks. SDT posits that performance is dependent on two independent factors: 1) ability to discriminate between targets and distractors (sensitivity, or actual memory ability) and 2) propensity to respond in a particular manner (response bias). Methods: One hundred patients diagnosed with PNES and 108 patients with temporal lobe ES, 62 left temporal (LTLE) and 46 right temporal (RTLE), were studied. Each participant was administered the Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS-III). Scores on the recognition subtest of the List Learning task were analyzed with the traditional method of scoring and also subjected to SDT analytic decomposition into indices of sensitivity (d') and bias (c). Logistic regression analysis was conducted to investigate the diagnostic utility of raw scores and SDT measures. Results: Raw scores on the recognition memory task were found to significantly discriminate between ES and PNES (?2= 6.01 p = .014, Area under ROC curve, or AUC = .57) however, analysis of SDT measures slightly improved the diagnostic utility (?2= 16.95, p < .001, AUC = .62). Both sensitivity (Wald ?2= 8.43, p = .004) and bias (Wald ?2= 7.92, p = .005) significantly contributed to the discrimination of ES and PNES. Increased sensitivity and a more negative response bias increased the odds of PNES (odds ratio, OR, sensitivity = 1.84, bias = 0.09). Decomposition into SDT measures did not significantly improve the discrimination between LTLE and RTLE (raw scores ?2= 6.63, p = .01., AUC = .66; SDT measures ?2= 14.42, p < .001, AUC = .68). Sensitivity (Wald ?2= 8.17, p = .004) but not response bias (Wald ?2= 2.9, p = .09) was found to be a significant predictor of left versus right TLE, with decreased sensitivity increasing the odds of LTLE (OR = 0.45). Conclusions: This study provides evidence that SDT measures of sensitivity and response bias may be useful tools to aid in the differential diagnosis of ES and PNES. Patients with PNES were found to have a negative response bias as compared to patients with ES. The negative response bias in the PNES group may be related to depression, inadequate effort or low motivation on the diagnostic testing. These results suggest that, not only is overall performance on neuropsychological testing important, but differences in response patterns should also be considered. 1 Cristiane S. Messas, 2 Luiz Henrique M. Castro, 2 Carmen L. Jorge, and 1 Leticia L. Mansur ( 1 Physical, Speech and Occupational Therapy, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy show cognitive imparment in episodic memory. Semantic memory aspects have received less attention in temporal lobe epielpsy. We evaluated aspects of semantic memory in epileptic patients with temporal lobe epilepsy secondary a mesial temporal sclerosis. Methods: We studied patients with medically refractory mesial TLE undergoing presurgical evaluation for epilepsy surgery with MRI documented unilateral mesial temporal sclerosis. Patients were classified as right or left mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS), according to MRI findings. Inclusion criteria included right handed patients with ages between 18?55, education above 8 yrs and absence of other MRI lesions or other significant neurological or psychiatric disease. Patients underwent a detailed battery evaluating episodic memory (word list learning, with spontaneous, cued and recognition recall and imediate and late history recall) and semantic memory tests: picture-word matching, definition of objects, common nouns, verbs and adjectives, word list generation [FAS, and category: animals and means of transportation), auditory responsive and visual confrontation naming (common and proper nouns, verbs and adjectives). Performance of left and right MTS patients was compared with a control group of normal individuals, matched by age, gender and education. Results: We evaluated 18 MTS patients (10 left, 8 right) and 22 controls. Groups did not differ in age, gender and education. All patients were high dose mono or polytherapy of antiepileptic drugs. Left MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in immediate and late history recall (p < 0.05). Left MTS patients also performed worse than right MTS and controls in word list learning, but the difference did not reach statistical significance(p < 0.05). In semantic memory testing, both left and right MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls in confrontation naming for common and proper nouns, as well as in word list generation (FAS, animals and means of transportation). In word-picture matching, right MTS patients performed significantly worse than controls (p < 0.05). Left MTS patients performed worse than controls, but this difference did not reach statistical significance (due to sample size). Left and right MTS patients performed worse than controls in responsive naming and in visual confrontation for verbs and adjectives, but this difference did not reach statistical significance. Groups did not differ in the definition task for objects, nouns, adjectives and verbs. Conclusions: In this group of patients, while episodic verbal memory impairment was noted in left MTS patients, imparment in some aspects of semantic memory was seen in both left and right MTS patients. 1 Yafa Minazad, and 1 Laura Kalayjian ( 1 Neurology, University of Southern California, Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Epilepsy is a chronic illness that negatively impacts quality of life. Cultural factors may have an influence. At Los Angeles County Medical Center, the majority of patients are Spanish-speaking, uninsured, and with low income and level of education. It is important to identify the factors associated with quality of life in this population to provide better care. Methods: Two hundred adult Hispanic patients, seen at our epilepsy clinic underwent a structured interview followed by a self-administered questionnaire (English or Spanish). Demographic and other information regarding their epilepsy was collected. The questionnaire consisted of the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-10 (QOLIE- 10) plus 11 additional questions designed to identify more cultural/social concerns. A statistical regression model was used to correlate these factors with mean QOLIE 10 scores. Results: Of the 200 patients interviewed, 61% were female. Mean age was 36 and mean duration of epilepsy was 20 years. 82% spoke Spanish as their primary language. 51% arrived by public transportation. Average number of antiepileptic medication prescribed was 2, and 74% of patients reported compliance. Mean seizure frequency was 1 per month. Mean percent optimal life scores (QOL) derived from the QOLIE 10 was 69.4%. Seizure frequency was significantly related with QOL, (p < 0.001). QOL decreased by 10% with every increase in category of seizure frequency; one every other month or less, more than every other month up to 2 per month, and 2 or more per month. Epilepsy duration was significantly and inversely associated with QOL (p < 0.04). Patients' gender, age of onset, seizure type, and etiology, did not correlate with QOL. Language was significantly associated with QOL (p < 0.01). English speaking Hispanics had lower QOL scores compared to Spanish speaking ones. Average length of education was 8 years. Of the 34% of patients who had stopped education due to epilepsy, 46% were below age 30. Patients with higher level of education (high school and above) had significantly lower QOL (p < 0.03). There was a significant association between sense of embarrassment (stigma) and QOL (p < 0.001). Twenty six percent reported being diagnosed with depression or anxiety. Of those diagnosed, 56% were receiving treatment. The question left unanswered the most by patients was regarding driving. Of the 14% of our patients who drove, only 51% owned a driver's license. Conclusions: Cultural factors and epilepsy burden play a role in quality of life in Hispanic epilepsy patients at a major US urban medical center. Stigma, language, and education had significant relationships with QOL. QOL was also significantly associated with increased seizure frequency and duration of disease. These results are similar to other studies showing refractory epilepsy patients have poor QOL. This information will enlighten health care providers to the needs of this cultural group. 1 Hilary Mounfield, 2 Gus Baker, 3 Michael Feichtinger, and 4 Philippe Ryvlin ( 1 Chief Executive, Epilepsy Scotland, Glasgow, United Kingdom ; 2 Clinical Neuropsychology, Walton Center for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Liverpool, United Kingdom ; 3 Department of Neurology, Karl-Franzens University, Graz, Austria ; and 4 Department of Functional Neurology and Epileptology, Neurology Hospital, Lyon, France ) Rationale: To provide a patients' perspective on the cognitive side effects of anti-epileptic drug (AED) treatment and the consequences for quality of life. Methods: A nine-item questionnaire comprising a combination of forced-choice and open-ended questions was distributed to 4,500 members of nine chapters of the International Bureau for Epilepsy (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Israel, Norway and Scotland). Results: Data analysis was performed on 837 completed questionnaires. The average age of respondents was 40 years, 54% were female and 95% were taking medication for their seizures (60% polytherapy vs 39% monotherapy). Average length of time on treatment was 18.07 years (± 18.07). Indicators of cognitive impairment considered to be affected ?very much? or ?moderately? included sleepiness/tiredness (57%), slowness of thought (42%) and difficulties learning something new (41%). Two thirds stated that cognitive impairment was related to their condition or AED therapy, with 41% attributing impairment to their AED therapy alone. More than half (59%) stated that cognitive impairment had prevented them from achieving a goal and approximately 50% reported that their quality of life had been affected including: work (48%), education (46%), relationships (48%) and leisure pursuits (44%). When asked what side effects they would most like to avoid, respondents reported indicators of cognitive impairment most frequently, including sleepiness/tiredness (35%), memory problems (19%), lethargy/sluggishness (9%) and difficulty paying attention (8%). Conclusions: Insights gained from this survey highlight the debilitating effect of cognitive impairment on individuals with epilepsy and the importance ascribed to minimising cognitive side effects of AEDs. (Supported by an unrestricted educational grant from UCB.) 1 Ada Piazzini, 1 Rosanna Chifari, 1 Katherine Turner, 1 Alberto Morabito, 1 Raffaele Canger, and 1 Maria Paola Canevini ( 1 Epilepsy Center, S. Paolo Hospital, University of Milan, Italy ) Rationale: The main aim of this investigation is to assess the possible cognitive changes in patients with epilepsy compared to controls over 5 years, and to investigate the clinical variables mainly implied in the mental alteration. Methods: 50 patients with focal epilepsy and 50 healthy controls were administered the same battery of comprehensive neuropsychological tests at baseline and 5 years later. Raw scores of all psychometric measures were converted to adjusted (age, gender, years of education) z scores. Results: Patients with focal epilepsy exhibited a significant impairment in substained attention compared to controls within 5 years, while the other cognitive domains did not show any important change. The worsening of attention was mainly related to the duration of epilepsy, the age of onset, a history of tonic-clonic seizures, and the level of education. There was no relation to the AEDs regimen. Conclusions: Our results could have important implications considering the influence attention can have on other cognitive functioning, on the quality of life and on the work status, in order to prevent further cognitive deterioration, especially in those patients more at risk to develop that decline. 1 Sandra Pouliot, and 1 Marilyn Jones-Gotman ( 1 Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: We have found that healthy young adults remember odors leading to large emotional reactions (measured with self ratings and galvanic skin response (GSR)) better than odors provoking smaller emotional reactions. Because the amygdala seems to be critically implicated in memory for emotional information and because it is part of the primary olfactory area, we hypothesized that patients with a unilateral amygdala resection (included in a selective amygdalohippocampectomy (SAH) or a corticoamygdalohippocampectomy (CAH)) would not show the normal better memory for emotional than for nonemotional odors, but that instead their memory would be the same without respect to the emotion-arousing properties of the odors to be remembered. Methods: We tested 20 patients who had undergone a SAH or CAH (10 left (6 men), 10 right (3 men)) for treatment of intractable epilepsy, and 32 healthy control subjects matched to the patients for age, education and gender. First, participants smelled passively 21 odors (time interval between odors: 45 seconds) while their breathing, heart rate and GSR were measured. Second, they smelled the same 21 odors again and rated each odor's intensity, pleasantness, familiarity and emotion-arousing properties. Third, a few days later (mean = 5.3, standard deviation = 3.4), we gave participants an unexpected recognition odor memory test. Results: Patients did not show better memory for emotional odors than for nonemotional ones, whereas the healthy control subjects did. There was no difference between patients with a left or right resection in odor memory accuracy or response bias. However, patients with a right resection tended to rate all odors as less emotionally arousing than did patients with a left resection and healthy control subjects. Control subjects showed greater GSR changes to arousing than to nonarousing odors, but the breathing and heart rate measures did not differ as a function of these properties of the odors. Conclusions: Patients who undergo a SAH or CAH, whether in the left or right hemisphere, lose the memory advantage that odors causing strong emotional reactions normally have. This absence of an effect of arousal is not related to differences in perceiving the odors, because only individuals with right resections rated odors differently whereas both left- and right-resection groups failed to remember the emotional odors better than nonemotional ones. This finding is likely owing to resection of the amygdala, which was included in both types of surgery. (Supported by Savoy Foundation and Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Gail L. Risse, 1 Robert Doss, 1 Wenbo Zhang, and 1,2 John R. Gates ( 1 Epilepsy, Minnesota Epilepsy Group, P.A. of United and Children's Hospitals and Clinics - St. Paul, St. Paul, MN ; and 2 Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Recent studies have reported a high rate of concordance between magnetoencephalography/magnetic source imaging (MSI) and the Intracarotid Amobarbital Procedure (IAP) in identifying patients with left hemisphere language dominance, despite the frequent co-occurrence of some right hemisphere activation on MSI. This study examines the anatomical activation patterns in the right hemisphere in response to an auditory word recognition task in patients who were classified with bilateral language based on the IAP. Methods: Data from four patients diagnosed with chronic epilepsy and/or brain tumor who had been classified with bilateral language representation on IAP and who also underwent language mapping with MSI were retrospectively reviewed. MSI data were obtained with a 148-channel Magnes 2500 WH system (4-D Neuroimaging, SanDiego, CA) and analyzed using the single equivalent dipole model. For each patient, the number and anatomic location of right hemisphere dipoles were examined in relation to modality-specific IAP language responses scored for the right hemisphere. Results: Evidence of correct responses on automatic speech tasks and/or at least one correct naming response was present in all four patients during maximum drug effect following the left injection on IAP. Two of 4 patients demonstrated some auditory comprehension in the right hemisphere as well. Right hemisphere MSI language activation sites included the superior temporal gyrus and/or angular gyrus in 3 of 4 patients. The fourth patient showed activation in the right inferior frontal region and a portion of the insula. This patient had the highest right hemisphere language score on IAP of the 4 cases reviewed. For all patients, activation of classical temporal lobe language areas in the left hemisphere significantly exceeded that seen on the right. Conclusions: These data appear to confirm independent activation of specific right hemisphere language areas in patients with unambiguous language function in both hemispheres. Results will be considered in relation to MSI activation in exclusively left language dominant cases and other neuropsychological variables. 1,5 Heike Schmolck, 1,2,3 Amit Verma, 1,2,3 Ian Goldsmith, 4 Daniel Yoshor, 4 Harvey Levin, 4 Michele K. York, 1,2,5 Perry J. Foreman, 1,2,3,6 Eli M. Mizrahi, and 1,5 Paul E. Schulz ( 1 Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, BCM, Houston, TX ; 3 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, BCM, Houston, TX ; 4 Neurosurgery, BCM, Houston, TX ; 5 Neurology, Michael DeBakey VAMC, Houston, TX ; and 6 Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, BCM, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Semantic Memory (SM) is impaired in neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., AD, FTD) or structural lesions affecting the lateral temporal cortex bilaterally (e.g., Herpes Encephalitis). The effect of unilateral lesions is less understood. Prior studies reported deficits in pre- as well as postsurgical temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients. These deficits have been suggested to be highly specific to the clinical difficulties experienced by TLE patients. Our goal is to study SM in patients before and after anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) to determine the effect of seizure laterality and the impact of surgery. Our specific aims are to investigate whether deficits in SM after ATL are related to the surgery or the TLE, to assess the magnitude of possible effects, and to determine whether dominant ATL represents a higher risk. Methods: We use 4 tests of semantic knowledge for 48 items. They test the ability to name an item when provided with either a picture or a description (confrontation naming, auditory naming), to provide a definition of the item, and to generate exemplars from a category (category fluency). We have cross-sectionally examined 14 pre-ATL and 18 post-ATL patients, and 8 controls. A prospective study arm is comparing performance before and after ATL in individual patients. Results: Both dominant and non-dominant TLE patients were impaired compared to controls, but the deficit in dominant TLE patients was more severe (ANCOVA IQ covariate, p < 0.05). Interestingly, surgical patients did significantly or marginally worse than presurgical patients on both naming tasks, but they performed better on the definitions task (p < 0.05). Surgical patients supplied more information about the items defined, whereas error rates were similar. Category fluency was also better in the ATL group. Overall performance remains impaired for TLE patients regardless of surgical status in reference to controls. Conclusions: This cross-sectional study found that SM was impaired before and after ATL, suggesting that ATL does not substantially alter SM. However, our prospective study will provide firmer conclusions regarding the impact of ATL on SM. SM was more impaired in dominant TLE. Postsurgical patients performed worse on confrontation naming but better on the definitions task; the latter is likely to be due to a nonspecific effect of improved fluency (less AEDs and less seizures) since error rates did not differ. (Supported by the Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of the Roger F. and Edna F. Evans Fund.) 1,2 Carol J. Schramke, 1 April A. Valeri, 1,2 James P. Valeriano, and 1,2 Kevin M. Kelly ( 1 Neurology, Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: This study compares patients with verified epileptic seizures (ES) and non epileptic seizure like events (NESLE), based on information obtained in clinical interviews, to determine which historical variables most reliably distinguish between these groups. Methods: All patients who were admitted for video EEG monitoring at Allegheny General Hospital between December 1998 and December 2004 and had a report, from at least 24 hours of video EEG monitoring, that suggested either an epileptic seizure or a non epileptic event were included. All patients admitted for monitoring were seen for a clinical interview by the first author. Data were coded based on that clinical interview including whether or not patients reported (1) pending litigation, (2) pending application for disability, (3) marital discord, (4) an unstable work history, (5) history of working in healthcare, (6) significant abuse or psychosocial stress during childhood, (7) history of sexual abuse, (8) current family conflict, (9) history of antisocial behavior, (10) history of delinquincy in childhood, (11) family history of seizures, (12) family history of mental health problems, CFS, or fibromyalgia, (13) family history of alcohol abuse, (14) incontinence during events, (15) history of self injury during an event, (16) events during sleep, (17) psychotropic medication at time of evaluation, (18) that events are related to stress, (19) history of psychiatric hospitalization, (20) history of panic disorder, (21) history of other anxiety disorder, (22) history of depression, and (23) history of other psychiatric diagnosis. Data were subjected to chi square analysis to determine whether there were significant between group differences. Results: Of the 153 reports of monitoring available for review, 65 recorded seizures and 56 recorded NESLE. In the other cases patients did not have events or events were not clearly classified. There were significant between group differences in patient report of (1) marital discord, (2) significant abuse or psychosocial stress during childhood, (3) history of sexual abuse, (4) family history of mental health problems, CFS, or fibromyalgia, (5) family history of alcohol abuse, (6) psychotropic medication at time of evaluation, (7) history of psychiatric hospitalization, (8) history of panic disorder, (9) history of other anxiety disorder, (10) history of depression, and (11) history of other psychiatric diagnosis. Conclusions: Many variables previously suggested to distinguish between patients with ES and NEE were not found to be significantly different in our two patient groups. The variables that did differ in the two groups suggest patients with NESLE are more likely to report histories of significant stress and abuse during childhood, current isues with relationships, and psychiatric diagnoses and treatment. 1 Alon Sinai, 1 Piotr J. Franaszczuk, and 1 Nathan E. Crone ( 1 Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Lexical semantic judgments are expected to depend on modality-specific, as well as amodal, lexical semantic processing. To verify the existence of these different components of lexical semantic processing, we used electrocorticographic (ECoG) recordings during a semantic relatedness task to measure event-related cortical activation with high spatial and temporal resolution. Methods: Having undergone surgical implantation of subdural electrode grids for the treatment of intractable epilepsy, six native English speakers (15?43 years old, mean 30 y.o.; 3 female, all left hemisphere dominant for language) judged whether sequentially presented pairs of words were semantically related or not, responding with a forced choice button press. Time-frequency analyses utilized matching pursuits to measure event-related ECoG spectral responses with respect to a 1-sec baseline preceding stimulus presentation. Word pairs were presented in either visual or auditory modalities during separate blocks. Event-related changes in frequency-specific signal energy were compared within subjects between conditions (visual/auditory; semantically related/non-related). Results: Event-related increases and decreases in ECoG signal energy were observed in a variety of frequency ranges, including increases in high gamma (>70 Hz) activity. Modality-specific event-related energy changes were observed in at least one recording site in all subjects. Modality-independent energy changes were observed in 5 of the 6 subjects. In 4 subjects event-related energy changes at some sites were significantly different for semantically related vs. unrelated word pairs. These findings were most prominent in left superior temporal gyrus, supramarginal gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus, and basal temporal cortex, as well as some of their right hemisphere counterparts. Conclusions: Lexical semantic processing occurs in both modality-specific, as well as amodal, cortical networks, distributed across cortical language regions in the dominant hemisphere, as well as in homologous regions of the nondominant hemisphere. (Supported by NINDS RO1-NS41598.) 1 Erik K. St. Louis, 1 Sean Mc Evoy, 1 Qian Chi Shi, and 1 Matthew Rizzo ( 1 Iowa Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine and University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; and Division of Neuroergonomics, Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA ) Rationale: Patients with epilepsy are at risk for automobile crashes. Cognitive effects of epilepsy and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may impair driving performance. Useful Field of View (UFOV) is a sensitive and specific predictor of automobile collisions. We analyzed UFOV in subjects with partial epilepsy. Methods: 20 partial epilepsy subjects (aged 21?61 years, mean = 41.5) and 50 neurologically normal controls (aged 24?56 years, mean = 39.3) participated. Epilepsy syndromes were temporal (n = 18; 12 had prior anterior temporal lobectomy) and extratemporal (n = 2). UFOV was assessed using the Visual Attention Analyzer, Model 3000 (Visual Resources, Inc.). UFOV Task 1 measures processing speed at central fixation. Task 2 analyzes divided attention between central and peripheral targets. Task 3 involves selective attention between a peripheral target and distracters. Task 4 is a more difficult discrimination task. The dependent measure is a threshold score (ms) for 75% correct target identification. Higher scores indicate poorer performance. UFOV Task scores were added to calculate a UFOV Total score for each subject. Results: UFOV scores were significantly higher on all UFOV tasks in subjects with partial epilepsy (Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test; see Table), indicative of impairments of processing speed, divided attention, and selective attention. Conclusions: UFOV scores are increased in subjects with partial epilepsy compared to neurologically normal individuals, suggesting a greater crash risk in individuals with partial epilepsy. Causes of impaired UFOV scores include reduced processing speed, divided and selective attention impairments, and mild superior quadrantic visual field deficits due to surgical lesions. Our future studies in drivers with epilepsy aim to further differentiate effects of seizures, AEDs, and lesions upon cognitive abilities critical to safe automobile driving. Useful field of view scores in partial epilepsy and neurologically normal subjects Epilepsy Subjects Control Subjects Sample Size 20 (11F, 9M) 50 (25F, 25M) Useful Field of View (msec) Mean (SD) Mean (SD) p-value UFOV Task 1 24.8 (36.6) 16.0 (0.00) ?0.0214 UFOV Task 2 55.1 (75.4) 24.9 (31.7) ?0.0008 UFOV Task 3 147.1 (101.5) 81.3 (48.5) ?0.0001 UFOV Task 4 269.9 (96.2)? 206.9 (76.8)? ?0.0075 UFOV Total Tasks 1?3 226.9 (193.8) 122.2 (76.5)? <0.0001 UFOV Total Tasks 1?4 496.8 (273.6) 329.1 (141.3) ?0.0019 SD: Standard Deviation. 1 Maria B. Viaggio, 1 Maria E. Fontela, 1 Veronica De Simone, and 1 Alfredo E. Thomson ( 1 Neurology Department, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: Epileptic patients have an increased risk of psychiatric comorbidity causing considerable burden and impact on quality of life. Prevalence of psychotic disorders in epilepsy is between 2?9%. Psychosis is more often classified according to the chronologic relation between the psychotic episode and the preceding seizure, i.e., ictal, postictal or interictal psychosis. The aim of this study is to characterize the clinical features and to evaluate the prevalence of psychotic disorders in our epileptic population. Methods: Clinical records of 370 epileptic patients evaluated in our section between 2002 and 2004 were review. Patients who presented psychotic disorders were included for analysis. Patients MRI, EEG recordings, demographic and clinical data were analyzed. Patients with: psychosis antedating epilepsy, history of substance abuse, other neurological disorder or symptoms related to AEDs, were excluded. Results: Twenty-six patients (7%) experienced psychosis. The mean age was 36 years old (SD:11.02) - Ictal Psychosis: Three patients (11.53%). All had localization related epilepsy with complex partial seizures (CPS). Psychosis and EEG discharges stopped with AEDs.The mean time of epilepsy diagnosis was 2.3 years (SD: 00.57) - Postictal psychosis: Seven patients (26.92%), 6 patients post status epilepticus and one post cluster of seizures. The mean interval between epilepsy and psychosis onset was 22.28 years (SD: 11.98). Five patients suffered CPS secondary to remote symptomatic epilepsy. Two patients had generalized seizures and idiophatic epilepsy. In all cases symptoms ceased within 7 days. - Interictal psychosis: Twenty patients (76.92%). The mean interval between onset of epilepsy and psychosis was 21 years (SD: 11.02). Most patients had remote symptomatic CPS. Seventeen patients showed focal interictally epileptiform discharges on EEG. Conclusions: Prevalence of psychotic disorders in our study are in accordance with previous studies. Our data also support that psychosis might be associated with CPS and remote symptomatic epilepsy. Interictal and postictal psychosis appears to be related to longstanding epilepsy. Adequate treatment of psychotic disorders is as important as seizure control for epilepsy management. Detecting and treating psychiatric comorbidities is required to help patients to achieve their maximal functional state and improve their quality of life. REFERENCES Kanner AM. Stagno S. Kotagel P. Postictal psychiatric events during prolonged video-electroencephalographic monitoring studies. Arch Neurol 1996;53: 258?263. Kanemoto K. Kawasaki J. Kawai I. Postictal psychosis: a comparison with acute interictal and chronic psychosis. Epilepsia 1996;37: 551?556. Onuma T. Adachi N. Ishida S., et al Prevalence and annual incidence of psychosis in patients with epilepsy. Epilepsia 1995;36 (suppl 3): S 218. Kanner AM. Barry J. Depression and psychotic disorders associated with epilepsy. Are they unique Epilepsy Behav 2001;2: 170?186. 1 Laura K. Vogtle, 1 Roy Martin, and 1 R. E. Faught ( 1 Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL; Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL; and Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: A significant proportion of adults with epilepsy are over the age of 60 (Hauser, 1992). Due to health issues related to advancing age, epilepsy and side effects of AEDs, aspects of quality of life are a concern for this population. A comparison of quality of life issues between a sample of elderly with and without epilepsy is described. Methods: Thirty elderly adults 60 years of age and older without epilepsy (EA) (12 males, 17 females) were compared to a sample of 27 elderly adults with epilepsy (EAE) (14 males, 11 females). All subjects were living independently in the community. EA were older (M = 71.97 SD = 5.48) than EAE (M = 64.41 SD = 3.81). Inclusion criteria for EAE were a seizure occurrence within the last 12 months and seizure disorder not resulting from stroke or TBI. Quality of life was assessed using the Older Americans Resource Survey (Fillenbaum, 1988), a self-report instrument containing 5 subscales (social resources, economic resources, mental health, physical health, ADL) and a cumulative score. Results: Three subscales of the OARS showed significantly lower scores for EAE; mental health, physical health, and ADL scores (see Table 1). Additionally, EAE were significantly more likely to be dependent on others for transportation (U = .001) and EA were more likely to have hearing impairments (U = .02). Conclusions: Assessment outcomes reveal poorer quality of life in EAE in the areas of mental and physical health and activities of daily living, in spite of the fact that the EAE sample was considerably younger than the EA comparison group. These findings underscore the need for further study regarding quality of life issues in EAE, particularly aspects of physical and mental health and their impact on a person's ability to manage personal care (ADL). Such findings may also reflect a need to provide careful follow-up and education in aspects of care such as medication compliance with EAE. (Supported by Center for Disease Control and Prevention.) Older Americans Resources Survey Comparison Subscale Mean Score Significance Social Resources ?EA ?1.55 .097 ?EAE ?1.93 Economic Resources ?EA ?2.34 .39? ?EAE ?2.11 Mental Health ?EA ?1.90 ?.03*? ?EAE ?2.37 Physical Health ?EA ?2.72 ?.05*? ?EAE ?3.19 ADL ?EA ?1.55 ?.02*? ?EAE ?2.07 Cumulative rating scale ?EA 10.14 ?.08? ?EAE 11.67 *p < .05. 1 Robert T. Wechsler, 2 John J. Barry, 2 Kim D. Bullock, 3 Patrick D. MacLeamy, and 1 Robert S. Fisher ( 1 Neurology, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ; 2 Psychiatry, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ; and 3 PGSP-Stanford Psy.D Consortium, Stanford University Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, CA ) Rationale: Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) are commonly encountered during evaluations for refractory epilepsy. Treatment for this debilitating condition centers on various forms of psychotherapy. Group therapy may be an effective therapeutic strategy, particularly in combination with individual therapy. Outcome in therapeutic trials have focused mainly on measures of event frequency or quality of life, which can be influenced by comorbid physical, psychological, and social factors. Changes in the subjective quality of PNES in response to therapy have received relatively little attention. Methods: The authors devised a preliminary, retrospective study to assess the impact of group therapy in combination with individual therapy on subjective measures of PNES including frequency, intensity, duration, and semiology. Questionnaires focusing on subjective measures were completed by 7 of 10 participants in Psychodynamic Group Therapy (PDT) and 4 of 6 in Cognitive Behavioral Group Therapy (CBT). Participants had long-standing history of refractory PNES. Results: Mean duration of participation was 16.7 months in PDT group and 6.4 months in CBT group. Two of 7 PGT respondents stopped having PNES. Of the 9 respondents who continued having PNES, 7 felt their events were less disabling, 6 reported improvement in frequency, 6 reported less intense events, 5 reported shorter events, 5 characterized events as less severe, 2 reported change in semiology, and 2 noted less cognitive impairment during events. Eight of 9 with persistent PNES had multiple event types. Five of these 8 reported a change in relative proportion of event types with decrease of more disabling events. Conclusions: This preliminary study reveals improvement in the subjective experience of PNES within the context of group therapy. Participants who continued to have PNES experienced fewer, less intense, and subjectively less disabling events. This preliminary retrospective study raises the possibility that measures of the subjective experience of PNES may be useful for assessing progress in psychotherapeutic interventions. Further similar analyses using validated tools and prospective designs may be of value. 1 Michael Westerveld, 1 Kimberly R. Stoddard, 2 John T. Langfitt, 3 William Barr, 1 Dennis D. Spencer, and 4 Susan S. Spencer ( 1 Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 2 Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY ; 3 Neurology, New York University (NYU), New York, NY ; and 4 Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Although there have been numerous previous studies reporting memory outcome following temporal lobectomy, these studies typically do not follow patients for periods greater than one-two years after surgery. Consequently, little is known about long-term (i.e., more than 2 years post-surgery) cognitive outcome following temporal lobectomy. Variables that relate to outcome, particularly long-term seizure control, have also not been studied. The current study reports on the verbal memory outcome for patients enrolled in a multi-center, prospective epilepsy surgery outcome study. Methods: A total of 80 patients who had reached the 5 year post-surgical date and for whom follow-up memory data were available are included in this report. Patients were enrolled in the multicenter study of epilepsy surgery (MSES), and underwent neuropsychological testing as part of their pre-surgical evaluation, follow-up testing at two years post-surgery, and again at 5 years following surgery. Neuropsychological evaluation included general cognitive ability (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale), and verbal memory testing (California Verbal Learning Test). Results: Neuropsychological testing at baseline revealed no significant pre-operative differences in Verbal, Performance or Full Scale IQ scores between the right and left TL surgery groups. Interestingly, there was no significant difference in the baseline verbal memory testing between the right and left TL groups. Repeated measures ANOVA reveals a trend toward better verbal memory outcome among patients with at least one 3 year remission period (p = .07), regardless of side of surgery. There is no significant main effect for side of surgery, but there was a significant interaction between time, side of surgery, and seizure outcome. While patients who underwent successful right temporal lobectomy (defined as at least 3 year seizure free period during follow-up) had the best verbal memory outcome, patients undergoing right temporal lobectomy that did not have a 3 year remission had the worst memory outcome, and were comparable to the left TL group without a 3 year remission. Post-hoc analysis also revealed that 3 of the 4 groups declined between the 2 year and 5 year outcome points. Conclusions: These results reveal that patients undergoing temporal lobectomy continue to evidence evolving changes in cognitive function 5 years after surgery. Although seizure outcome is a key factor, other variables also play a role, including side of surgery and baseline level of function. These findings indicate that patients may remain vulnerable to verbal memory declines as long as 5 years following temporal lobectomy. (Supported by NIH Grant Number 2 R01 NS32375-06.) 1,3 David J. Williamson, 2 Daniel L. Drane, 2 Elizabeth S. Stroup, 1,2 Alan Wilensky, 2 Mark D. Holmes, and 2 John W. Miller ( 1 Scientific Affairs, Janssen Medical Affairs, LLC, Titusville, NJ ; 2 School of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 3 Neurology, University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL ) Rationale: Recent investigations have demonstrated that the majority of patients with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) perform in the invalid range on tests designed to detect valid effort on neurocognitive testing (Williamson et al., 2003, 2004). However, a small percentage of patients with video-telemetry confirmed epilepsy also fail symptom validity testing (SVT), including some without evidence of somatoform disorder or apparent motivation to perform in a suboptimal manner. There are inconsistent findings about the extent to which recent epileptiform activity influences neurocognitive performance (Aldenkamp & Arends, 2004). Clinically, we noted that patients with epilepsy who experienced seizures within the past 24 hours seemed more likely to fail symptom validity testing. We investigated this matter in a more systematic fashion to determine the extent to which recent seizure activity may compromise the validity of neurocognitive findings. Methods: Sixty-three patients referred for continuous video-EEG monitoring for evaluation of uncontrolled seizures at the University of Washington were administered the Word Memory Test as part of a comprehensive epilepsy neuropsychological evaluation. Only patients classified on the basis of their ictal EEG recordings and behavioral presentation as experiencing epileptic seizures were included in the study. In order to screen out patients with known cognitive deficits severe enough to decrease the likelihood of normal performance on SVT, patients unable to live independently were excluded. Results: Of the patients who failed SVT, 75% had suffered a seizure within the preceding 24-hour period. ROC analysis suggests that simply knowing that a patient had suffered a seizure within the preceding 24 hours significantly improves one's ability to predict whether they will fail SVT (p = .03). These findings appear to be particularly true for patients diagnosed with complex partial seizures: 3/8 patients with complex-partial seizures with a right-sided focus who had suffered a recent seizure failed (vs. 0/8 who had not seized), whereas 5/8 patients with a recent left-sided focal seizure failed (vs. 0/8 who had not seized). Conclusions: Based upon these preliminary data, it appears that suffering a seizure within 24 hours of neurocognitive testing may place a sizeable proportion of patients with epilepsy at risk for failing SVT, particularly if a patient suffers from complex partial seizures. Given the demonstrated relationship between failed SVT and improbably poor scores on neurocognitive testing in epilepsy and other populations, this may have important implications for clinical decision-making based upon such test results. 1 Pezhman M. Zadeh, 1 Adriana E. Palade, and 1 John F. Brick ( 1 Neurology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV ) Rationale: Posterior Communicating Artery Wada for memory evaluation is rarely done. The presurgical internal carotid artery Wada for memory evaluation provides sufficient information in many patients with medically intractable epilepsy. We report five cases in which performance of posterior communicating artery Wada helped us evaluate the hippocampus involvement in memory function, after the Internal Carotid Artery WADA injection demonstrated that patients may be at risk for memory loss if mesiotemporal structures would be removed. Methods: In the five patients bilateral internal carotid artery injection of amobarbital was performed with concurrent EEG recording. Subsequently patients had language and memory evaluation done by Neuropsycology team. The evaluation of memory function suggested bihemispheric memory representation, with the concern that the patients may experience memory decline after ipsilateral resection of mesiotemporal structures.Additional testing with amobarbital injected in the ipsilateral posterior communicating artery supplying the hippocampus was done, with additional small amounts of amobarbital being needed until patient developed a visual field cut. Results: Clinically, patients were evaluated for development of homonymous hemianopsia which suggests adequate posterior communicating artery injection. In all of the cases the concurrent EEG recording showed minimal background slowing of the hemisphere being injected. Additional memory testing was performed and demonstrated good memory support in the remaining hemisphere not supplied by PCA and in the contralateral hemisphere therefore allowing safe resection of the tested hippocampus. Post-surgical follow up with Neuropsychological testing did not demonstrate any memory impairment. Conclusions: Inconclusive bilateral carotid Wada testing does not disqualify the patients with intractable epilepsy from being a good candidate for surgical resection of mesiotemporal structures. Posterior communicating artery Wada is very useful in assessing involvement of hippocampus in memory function.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Scientific Presentation Abstracts: 2019 ACVS Surgery Summit October 17-19, Las Vegas, Nevada
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 48
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.13310
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.13310
SP  - 1091
EP  - 1170
PY  - 2019
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - De Nutte, M.
AU  - Behaeghe, E.
AU  - van der Weijden, G. A.
AU  - Coucke, W.
AU  - Teughels, W.
AU  - Quirynen, M.
TI  - Healing of toothbrush-induced abrasions to keratinized mucosa of the palate in humans: A pilot study
JO  - Journal of Periodontal Research
JA  - J Periodont Res
VL  - 53
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jre.12540
DO  - doi:10.1111/jre.12540
SP  - 506
EP  - 513
KW  - dental plaque
KW  - gingiva
KW  - gingival diseases
KW  - gingival recession
KW  - gingivitis
KW  - oral hygiene
KW  - soft tissue injuries
KW  - tooth brushing
KW  - wound healing
PY  - 2018
AB  - Background and Objective To the best of our knowledge, the healing time for toothbrush-induced gingival abrasions in humans has not yet been explored. The aim of this study was to evaluate the time needed to heal for toothbrush-induced abrasions of the keratinized mucosa of the palate. Material and Methods In patients without, with mild periodontitis or with periodontitis, gingival abrasion lesions were induced at the keratinized mucosa of the palate by brushing up to 2 minutes. Healing as observed clinically was followed via calibrated digital photographs of the lesion after staining, every 24 hours until the lesion had resolved. In patients without or with only mild periodontitis, the healing time of lesions caused by 30 seconds and 1 minute of brushing was also recorded. Results Thirty-one participants (11 without or with mild periodontitis, 20 with periodontitis) met the inclusion criteria. In patients without or with mild periodontitis, the lesions induced by brushing for 2 minutes diminished by 48.7% of their original surface area within 24 hours. In patients with periodontitis the respective outcome was 45.4% (P = .87). Abrasions caused by 2 minutes of brushing needed more than 24 hours to heal completely. When decreasing the time exposed to trauma, fewer lesions were visible at baseline and the time needed to heal decreased. The subgroup of smokers was too small to evaluate any effect. Conclusion The longer the exposure time of the keratinized mucosa of the palate to trauma, the more lesions were visible, the larger the abrasions were and the more time they needed to heal completely. More studies are needed to investigate the role of smoking, gingival biotype and to link these findings with gingival recessions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Marshall, K. A.
AU  - Brooks, A. C.
AU  - Hammac, G. K.
AU  - Thomovsky, E. J.
AU  - Johnson, P. A.
TI  - Prevalence of bacterial contamination in 50% dextrose vials in varying storage conditions after multiple punctures
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 59
IS  - 12
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12906
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12906
SP  - 758
EP  - 762
PY  - 2018
AB  - Objective To determine the risk of bacterial growth in single use 50% dextrose vials punctured multiple times and stored in various hospital environments. Materials and Methods Three groups of three 50% dextrose vials were stored in our hospital intensive care unit at either ambient light or in a darkened drawer at room temperature or refrigerated at 4°C. One vial in each group was punctured either once, once weekly or once daily for 28?days and samples taken for bacterial culture every 7 days until completion of the project. A fourth group of three vials were inoculated with several species of bacteria and stored in our microbiology laboratory under the environmental conditions described above with cultures performed every 7 days for 28?days. In addition, the water activity of 50% dextrose was determined using commercial laboratory equipment. Results Scant growth of Escherichia coli and Enterobacter agglomerans was detected in cultures performed on day 7, but not subsequent time points, from the inoculated refrigerated vials. The vial punctured once daily for 28?days and stored under refrigerated conditions showed growth of Bacillus subtilis on day 28. All remaining bottles had no bacterial growth at any time point or environmental condition. The water activity of 50% dextrose was 093 at 24°C and 092 at 4°C. Clinical Significance Bacterial growth in 50% dextrose vials was uncommon even when inoculated with pathogens. Bacterial growth only occurred in refrigerated storage conditions. The water activity of 50% dextrose is not low enough to inhibit all bacterial and fungal growth.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fullerton, James N
AU  - O'Brien, Alastair J
AU  - Gilroy, Derek W
TI  - Pathways mediating resolution of inflammation: when enough is too much
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 231
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119414582
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.4232
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.4232
SP  - 8
EP  - 20
KW  - critical illness
KW  - sepsis
KW  - resolution of inflammation
KW  - apoptosis
KW  - efferocytosis
KW  - macrophage
KW  - lipid mediators
KW  - PGE2
KW  - T-regulatory cell
KW  - myeloid-derived suppressor cell
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Patients with critical illness, and in particular sepsis, are now recognized to undergo unifying, pathogenic disturbances of immune function. Whilst scientific and therapeutic focus has traditionally been on understanding and modulating the initial pro-inflammatory limb, recent years have witnessed a refocusing on the development and importance of immunosuppressive 'anti-inflammatory' pathways. Several mechanisms are known to drive this phenomenon; however, no overriding conceptual framework justifies them. In this article we review the contribution of pro-resolution pathways to this phenotype, describing the observed immune alterations in terms of either a failure of resolution of inflammation or the persistence of pro-resolution processes causing inappropriate ?injurious resolution??a novel hypothesis. The dysregulation of key processes in critical illness, including apoptosis of infiltrating neutrophils and their efferocytosis by macrophages, are discussed, along with the emerging role of specialized cell subtypes Gr1+ CD11b+ myeloid-derived suppressor cells and CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ T-regulatory cells. Copyright ? 2013 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 
