
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Huber-Lang, Markus S.
AU  - Sarma, J. Vidya
AU  - McGuire, Stephanie R.
AU  - Lu, Kristina T.
AU  - Guo, Ren Feng
AU  - Padgaonkar, Vaishalee A.
AU  - Younkin, Ellen M.
AU  - Laudes, Ines J.
AU  - Riedemann, Niels C.
AU  - Younger, John G.
AU  - Ward, Peter A.
TI  - Protective effects of anti-C5a peptide antibodies in experimental sepsis
JO  - The FASEB Journal
JA  - FASEB J
VL  - 15
IS  - 3
SN  - 0892-6638
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1096/fj.00-0653fje
DO  - doi:10.1096/fj.00-0653fje
SP  - 568
EP  - 570
KW  - C5a
KW  - cecal ligation/puncture
KW  - neutrophils
PY  - 2001
AB  - ABSTRACT We evaluated antibodies to different peptide regions of rat C5a in the sepsis model of cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) for their protective effects in rats. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies were developed to the following peptide regions of rat C5a: amino-terminal region (A), residues 1-16; middle region (M), residues 17-36; and the carboxyl-terminal region (C), residues 58-77. With rat neutrophils, the chemotactic activity of rat C5a was significantly inhibited by antibodies with the following rank order: anti-C > anti-M ? anti-A. In vivo, antibodies to the M and C (but not A) regions of C5a were protective in experimental sepsis, as determined by survival over a 10-day period, in a dose-dependent manner. The relative protective efficacies of anti-C5a preparations (in descending order of efficacy) were anti-C ≥ anti-M ? anti-A. In CLP rats, a delay in infusion of antibodies, which were injected at 6 or 12 h after CLP, still resulted in significant improvement in survival rates. These in vivo and in vitro data suggest that there are optimal targets on C5a for blockade during sepsis and that delayed infusion of anti-C5a antibody until after onset of clinical evidence of sepsis still provides protective effects.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zhang, Jia-xiang
AU  - Zha, Wan-sheng
AU  - Ye, Liang-ping
AU  - Wang, Feng
AU  - Wang, Hui
AU  - Shen, Tong
AU  - Wu, Chang-hao
AU  - Zhu, Qi-xing
C8  - JAT-15-0189.R1
TI  - Complement C5a–C5aR interaction enhances MAPK signaling pathway activities to mediate renal injury in trichloroethylene sensitized BALB/c mice
JO  - Journal of Applied Toxicology
JA  - J. Appl. Toxicol.
VL  - 36
IS  - 2
SN  - 0260-437X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jat.3179
DO  - doi:10.1002/jat.3179
SP  - 271
EP  - 284
KW  - trichloroethylene
KW  - C5a
KW  - C5aR
KW  - renal injury
KW  - MAPK
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract We have previously shown complement activation as a possible mechanism for trichloroethylene (TCE) sensitization, leading to multi-organ damage including the kidneys. In particular, excessive deposition of C5 and C5b-9-the membrane attack complex, which can generate significant tissue damage, was observed in the kidney tissue after TCE sensitization. The present study tested the hypothesis that anaphylatoxin C5a binding to its receptor C5aR mediates renal injury in TCE-sensitized BALB/c mice. BALB/c mice were sensitized through skin challenge with TCE, with or without pretreatment by the C5aR antagonist W54011. Kidney histopathology and the renal functional test were performed to assess renal injury, and immunohistochemistry and fluorescent labeling were carried out to assess C5a and C5aR expressions. TCE sensitization up-regulated C5a and C5aR expressions in kidney tissue, generated inflammatory infiltration, renal tubule damage, glomerular hypercellularity and impaired renal function. Antagonist pretreatment blocked C5a binding to C5aR and attenuated TCE-induced tissue damage and renal dysfunction. TCE sensitization also caused the deposition of major pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-2, TNF-α and IFN-? in the kidney tissue (P?<?0.05); this was accompanied by increased expression of P-p38, P-ERK and P-JNK proteins (P?<?0.05). Pretreatment with the C5aR antagonist attenuated the increase of expression of P-p38, P-ERK and P-JNK proteins (P?<?0.05) and also consistently reduced the TCE sensitization-induced increase of IL-2, TNF-α and IFN-? (P?<?0.05). These data identify C5a binding to C5aR, MAP kinase activation, and inflammatory cytokine release as a novel mechanism for complement-mediated renal injury by sensitization with TCE or other environmental chemicals. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wood, Alexander J. T.
AU  - Vassallo, Arlette
AU  - Summers, Charlotte
AU  - Chilvers, Edwin R.
AU  - Conway-Morris, Andrew
C7  - e13028
TI  - C5a anaphylatoxin and its role in critical illness-induced organ dysfunction
JO  - European Journal of Clinical Investigation
JA  - Eur J Clin Invest
VL  - 48
IS  - 12
SN  - 0014-2972
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/eci.13028
DO  - doi:10.1111/eci.13028
SP  - e13028
KW  - C5a
KW  - complement
KW  - critical illness
KW  - immunosuppression
KW  - infection
KW  - neutrophil
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Critical illness is an aetiologically and clinically heterogeneous syndrome that is characterised by organ failure and immune dysfunction. Mortality in critically ill patients is driven by inflammation-associated organ damage and a profound vulnerability to nosocomial infection. Both factors are influenced by the activated complement protein C5a, released by unbridled activation of the complement system during critical illness. C5a exerts deleterious effects on organ systems directly and suppresses antimicrobial functions of key immune cells. Whilst several recent reports have added key knowledge of the cellular signalling pathways triggered by C5a, there remain a number of areas that are incompletely understood and therapeutic opportunities are still being evaluated. In this review, we summarise the cellular basis for C5a-induced vulnerability to nosocomial infection and organ dysfunction. We focus on cells of the innate immune system, highlighting the major areas in need of further research and potential avenues for targeted therapies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Monk, P N
AU  - Scola, A-M
AU  - Madala, P
AU  - Fairlie, D P
TI  - Function, structure and therapeutic potential of complement C5a receptors
JO  - British Journal of Pharmacology
VL  - 152
IS  - 4
SN  - 0007-1188
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.bjp.0707332
DO  - doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0707332
SP  - 429
EP  - 448
KW  - complement
KW  - C5a
KW  - G protein
KW  - receptor
KW  - inflammation
KW  - immunity
KW  - antagonist
PY  - 2007
AB  - Complement fragment (C)5a is a 74 residue pro-inflammatory polypeptide produced during activation of the complement cascade of serum proteins in response to foreign surfaces such as microorganisms and tissue damaged by physical or chemical injury. C5a binds to at least two seven-transmembrane domain receptors, C5aR (C5R1, CD88) and C5L2 (gpr77), expressed ubiquitously on a wide variety of cells but particularly on the surface of immune cells like macrophages, neutrophils and T cells. C5aR is a classical G protein-coupled receptor that signals through Gαi and Gα16, whereas C5L2 does not appear to couple to G proteins and has no known signalling activity. Although C5a was first described as an anaphylatoxin and later as a leukocyte chemoattractant, the widespread expression of C5aR suggested more general functionality. Our understanding of the physiology of C5a has improved significantly in recent years through exploitation of receptor knockout and knockin mice, C5 and C5a antibodies, soluble recombinant C5a and C5a analogues and newly developed receptor antagonists. C5a is now also implicated in non-immunological functions associated with developmental biology, CNS development and neurodegeneration, tissue regeneration, and haematopoiesis. Combined receptor mutagenesis, molecular modelling, structure-activity relationship studies and species dependence for ligand potency on C5aR have been helpful for identifying ligand binding sites on the receptor and for defining mechanisms of receptor activation and inactivation. This review will highlight major developments in C5a receptor research that support C5aR as an important therapeutic target. The intriguing possibilities raised by the existence of a non-signalling C5a receptor are also discussed. British Journal of Pharmacology (2007) 152, 429?448; doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0707332; published online 2 July 2007
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Recknagel, Stefan
AU  - Bindl, Ronny
AU  - Wehner, Tim
AU  - Göckelmann, Melanie
AU  - Wehrle, Esther
AU  - Gebhard, Florian
AU  - Huber-Lang, Markus
AU  - Claes, Lutz
AU  - Ignatius, Anita
TI  - Conversion from external fixator to intramedullary nail causes a second hit and impairs fracture healing in a severe trauma model
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 31
IS  - 3
SN  - 0736-0266
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.22242
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.22242
SP  - 465
EP  - 471
KW  - conversion
KW  - blunt chest trauma
KW  - systemic inflammation
KW  - fracture healing
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract In poly-traumatic patients, second hits are known to potentiate the posttraumatic systemic inflammatory response, thus increasing the risk of multi-organ dysfunction. In accordance with ?damage control orthopaedic surgery? principles, fractures are initially treated with external fixators, which are replaced by internal osteosynthesis once the immunological status of the patient is considered stable. Recently, we demonstrated that a severe trauma impaired the healing of fractures stabilized by external fixation during the entire healing period. The question arose, whether switching to intramedullary nailing increases the inflammatory response in terms of a second hit, leading to a further impairment of bone healing. Wistar rats received a femoral osteotomy stabilized by an external fixator. Simultaneously half of the rats underwent an additional thoracic trauma. After 4 days, the external fixator was replaced by an intramedullary nail in half of the rats of the two groups. The inflammatory response was evaluated by measuring serum C5a levels. Fracture healing was determined by three-point-bending, µCT, and histomorphometry. The thoracic trauma significantly increased C5a concentrations 6, 24, and 72?h after the second surgical intervention. After 40 days, conversion to intramedullary nailing considerably decreased the flexural rigidity of the callus, with no significant differences between rats with or without thoracic trauma. After 47 days, flexural rigidity in rats subjected to conversion remained decreased compared to animals solely treated by external fixation, particularly in combination with blunt chest trauma. The results indicate that accumulation of second hits after multiple injuries could lead to aggravation of the fracture healing outcome. ? 2012 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 31: 465?471, 2013
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Satyam, Abhigyan
AU  - Graef, Elizabeth R.
AU  - Lapchak, Peter H.
AU  - Tsokos, Maria G.
AU  - Dalle Lucca, Jurandir J.
AU  - Tsokos, George C.
TI  - Complement and coagulation cascades in trauma
JO  - Acute Medicine & Surgery
JA  - Acute Med Surg
VL  - 6
IS  - 4
SN  - 2052-8817
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ams2.426
DO  - doi:10.1002/ams2.426
SP  - 329
EP  - 335
KW  - Coagulation
KW  - complement
KW  - DAMPs
KW  - PAMPS
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2019
AB  - Trauma remains a major cause of death throughout the world, especially for patients younger than 45 years. Due to rapid advances in clinical management, both in the acute and prehospital settings, trauma patients survive devastating injuries at unprecedented rates. However, these patients can often face life threatening complications that stem from the robust innate immune response induced by severe hemorrhage, leading to further tissue injury rather than repair. The complement and coagulation cascades are key mediators in this disordered reaction, which includes the development of trauma-induced coagulopathy. There is increasing evidence that cross-talk between these two pathways allows rapid amplification of their otherwise targeted responses and contributes to overwhelming and prolonged systemic inflammation. In this article, we summarize the initial steps of innate immune response to trauma and review the complex complement and coagulation cascades, as well as how they interact with each other. Despite progress in understanding these cascades, effective therapeutic targets have yet to be found and further research is needed both to improve survival rates as well as decrease associated morbidity.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reiman, Rachael
AU  - Gerard, Craig
AU  - Campbell, Iain L.
AU  - Barnum, Scott R.
TI  - Disruption of the C5a receptor gene fails to protect against experimental allergic encephalomyelitis
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 32
IS  - 4
SN  - 0014-2980
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/1521-4141(200204)32:4<1157::AID-IMMU1157>3.0.CO;2-M
DO  - doi:10.1002/1521-4141(200204)32:4<1157::AID-IMMU1157>3.0.CO;2-M
SP  - 1157
EP  - 1163
KW  - Anaphylatoxin receptor
KW  - Complement
KW  - Autoimmune disease
KW  - Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
PY  - 2002
AB  - Abstract Activation of the complement system generates the anaphylatoxic peptide C5a, which elicits a broad range of inflammatory activities. The biological activities of C5a are mediated through its binding to the widely expressed C5a receptor (C5aR), a G-protein-coupled seven transmembrane domain receptor. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for multiple sclerosis, the C5aR is expressed on monocytes/macrophages, reactive astrocytes and T cells infiltrating the central nervous system (CNS). To investigate the role of the C5aR in this T cell-driven autoimmunemodel, we induced EAE in C5aR-deficient mice (C5aR?/?) and wild-type mice using a myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) peptide as the immunogen. We found that C5aR?/? mice were fully susceptible to MOG-induced EAE with no difference in disease onset or severity in C5aR?/? mice compared to control mice. Cellular infiltrates (macrophages and T cells) were similarin the spinal cords of both animal groups and splenic T cells from C5aR?/? mice and control mice responded identically to MOG in T cell proliferation assays. Ribonuclease protection assays demonstrated no significant differences in pro-inflammatory gene expression between receptor-deficient and sufficient mice. These results indicate that the C5aR is not an essential mediator in the induction and progression of EAE.
ER  - 

AU  - Reineke, Erica L.
C7  - pp. 1039-1051
TI  - Trauma Overview
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119028994.ch160
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119028994.ch160
SP  - 1039-1051
KW  - animal trauma scoring systems
KW  - blunt trauma
KW  - Modified Glasgow Coma Score
KW  - penetrating trauma
KW  - polytrauma
PY  - 2002
AB  - Abstract Blunt and penetrating trauma is common in small animal patients, accounting for a large number of emergency room visits. Rapid recognition and treatment of abnormalities in tissue perfusion and oxygen delivery is essential to ensure patient survival and decrease the risk for the development of the systemic inflammatory response and MODS. Knowledge of trauma patterns in dogs and cats can help the emergency veterinarian rapidly identify injuries associated with trauma and allow for directed care. Animal trauma scoring systems are useful to help identify more severely injured patients, evaluate hospital outcomes and for patient stratification for clinical trials.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - HUSCHAK, G.
AU  - ZUR NIEDEN, K.
AU  - STUTTMANN, R.
AU  - RIEMANN, D.
TI  - Changes in monocytic expression of aminopeptidase N/CD13 after major trauma
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
VL  - 134
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2249.2003.02302.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2249.2003.02302.x
SP  - 491
EP  - 496
KW  - CD13
KW  - HLA-DR
KW  - intensive care medicine
KW  - major trauma
KW  - monocytes 
PY  - 2003
AB  - SUMMARY HLA-DR expression on monocytes as marker for monocytic function is severely depressed after major trauma. The membrane enzyme aminopeptidase N/CD13 can trigger help in antigen processing by MHC class II molecules of antigen-presenting cells. We determined the simultaneous expression of HLA-DR and CD13 on peripheral blood monocytes of patients with major trauma (injury severity score of ≥16). 1?: 1 conjugates of phycoerythrin (PE)-to-monoclonal antibody were used in combination with QuantiBRITETM PE beads for a standardized quantification in terms of antibodies bound per cell (ABC). The very low expression of HLA-DR antigen on monocytes of patients at day 1 after major trauma confirmed previous results in the literature. Monocytic HLA-DR expression increased slowly to reach values in the lower range of healthy volunteers at day 14. Monocytic CD13 expression at day 1 showed values in the range of healthy volunteers, and a strong rise afterwards. Fourteen days after trauma, the monocytic expression of CD13 was still much higher than in the control group. Because lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-10 have been shown to be involved in the depressed HLA-DR expression on monocytes in trauma patients, we studied the in vitro effects of LPS and interleukin (IL)-10 on the expression of CD13 on monocytes prepared from the peripheral blood of healthy volunteers. Whereas a 3-day IL-10 treatment resulted in a down-regulation of both HLA-DR and CD13 expression on monocytes, LPS caused a down-regulation of HLA-DR but a rapid up-regulation of CD13 levels. Therefore we suggest that, with respect to monocytic CD13 expression, LPS rather than IL-10 could well be the explanation for monocytic surface molecules after severe injury, although other mediators with a CD13 regulating function have to be considered.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Scholz, Martin
AU  - Cinatl, Jindrich
AU  - Schädel-Höpfner, Michael
AU  - Windolf, Joachim
TI  - Neutrophils and the blood–brain barrier dysfunction after trauma
JO  - Medicinal Research Reviews
JA  - Med. Res. Rev.
VL  - 27
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/med.20064
DO  - doi:10.1002/med.20064
SP  - 401
EP  - 416
KW  - blood–brain barrier
KW  - hyperactive neutrophils
KW  - second hit concept
KW  - SIRS
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract Despite the fact that neutrophils are essential for the protection from invading pathogens, hyperactive neutrophils may elicit detrimental cerebral damage after severe trauma. The neutrophil interactions with the neurovascular unit entail endothelial dysfunction involving endothelial leakage, formation of edema, coagulation abnormalities, disturbed hemodynamics, tissue infiltration etc. These elements of the ?whole body inflammation,? designated systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) in conjunction with intracerebral proinflammatory activities, are important triggers of post-traumatic cerebral damage and mortality according to the ?second hit? concept. From the immunologic point of view, the brain is an immune privileged site, known to resist autodestructive inflammatory activity much more efficiently than other organs because of the highly efficient diverse functions of the blood?brain barrier (BBB). However, both the underlying strategy of the BBB to maintain cerebral protecting functions against the post-traumatic neutrophil-mediated ?second hit? and how activated neutrophils may overcome the BBB are currently unknown. Therefore, this review summarizes the current understanding of the ?second hit,? the BBB physiology, and its role in the maintenance of cerebral immune privilege, and discusses recent findings that may explain the pathophysiologic neutrophil?BBB interactions occurring after severe trauma, thus offering novel therapeutic options to protect from post-traumatic brain damage. ? 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Med Res Rev, 27, No. 3, 401?416, 2007
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ward, Peter A.
AU  - Gao, Hongwei
TI  - Sepsis, complement and the dysregulated inflammatory response
JO  - Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
VL  - 13
IS  - 10
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1582-4934.2009.00893.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1582-4934.2009.00893.x
SP  - 4154
EP  - 4160
KW  - sepsis
KW  - complement
KW  - C5a
KW  - C5a receptors
KW  - apoptosis
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract ?? Introduction -? Models of sepsis -? Evidence for complement activation in sepsis -? Protective effects of C5a generated in limited amounts -? Sepsis-induced changes in signalling cascades -? Divergent effects on phagocytic cells during sepsis -? Harmful effects of C5a and C5a receptors in experimental sepsis ?? Future directions Sepsis in human beings is a major problem involving many individuals and with a high death rate. Except for a single drug (recombinant activated protein C) that has been approved for treatment of septic patients, supportive measures represent the main clinical approach. There are many models of experimental sepsis, mostly in rodents. A commonly used model is cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). In this model, robust activation of complement occurs together with up-regulation of C5a receptors (C5aR, C5L2) in a variety of different organs (lungs, kidneys, liver, heart). In septic human beings there is abundant evidence for complement activation. Interception of C5a or its receptors in the CLP model greatly improves survival in septic rodents. There is compelling evidence that CLP causes an intense pro-inflammatory state and that C5a interaction with its receptors can be linked to apoptosis of the lymphoid system and cells of the adrenal medulla, loss of innate immune functions of blood neutrophils, consumptive coagulopathy and cardiac dysfunction. These findings may have implications for therapeutic interventions in human beings with sepsis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Islam, Md Nahidul
AU  - Bradley, Benjamin A
AU  - Ceredig, Rhodri
C7  - e77
TI  - Sterile post-traumatic immunosuppression
JO  - Clinical & Translational Immunology
JA  - Clin Trans Immunol
VL  - 5
IS  - 4
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1038/cti.2016.13
DO  - doi:10.1038/cti.2016.13
SP  - e77
PY  - 2016
AB  - After major trauma, the human immune system initiates a series of inflammatory events at the injury site that is later followed by suppression of local inflammation favoring the repair and remodeling of the damaged tissues. This local immune response involves complex interactions between resident cells such as macrophages and dendritic cells, soluble mediators such as cytokines and chemokines, and recruited cells such as neutrophils, monocytes and mesenchymal stromal cells. If of sufficient magnitude, these initial immune responses nevertheless have systemic consequences resulting in a state called post-traumatic immunosuppression (PTI). However, controversy exists regarding the exact immunological changes occurring in systemic compartments triggered by these local immune responses. PTI is one of the leading causes of post-surgical mortality and makes patients vulnerable to hospital-acquired infections, multiple organ failure and many other complications. In addition, hemorrhage, blood transfusion, immunesenescence and immunosuppressant drugs aggravate PTI. PTI has been intensively studied, but published results are frequently cloudy. The purpose of this review is to focus on the contributions made by different responsive modalities to immunosuppression following sterile trauma and to try to integrate these into an overall scheme of PTI.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bhatia, Madhav
AU  - Moochhala, Shabbir
TI  - Role of inflammatory mediators in the pathophysiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 202
IS  - 2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.1491
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.1491
SP  - 145
EP  - 156
KW  - acute respiratory distress syndrome
KW  - multiple organ dysfunction syndrome
KW  - systemic inflammatory response syndrome
KW  - chemokines
KW  - leukocytes
KW  - cytokines
PY  - 2004
AB  - Abstract Inflammatory response leading to organ dysfunction and failure continues to be the major problem after injury in many clinical conditions such as sepsis, severe burns, acute pancreatitis, haemorrhagic shock, and trauma. In general terms, systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) is an entirely normal response to injury. Systemic leukocyte activation, however, is a direct consequence of a SIRS and if excessive, can lead to distant organ damage and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS). When SIRS leads to MODS and organ failure, the mortality becomes high and can be more than 50%. Acute lung injury that clinically manifests as acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a major component of MODS of various aetiologies. Inflammatory mediators play a key role in the pathogenesis of ARDS, which is the primary cause of death in these conditions. This review summarizes recent studies that demonstrate the critical role played by inflammatory mediators such as tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1?, IL-6, platelet activating factor (PAF), IL-10, granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), C5a, intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, substance P, chemokines, VEGF, IGF-I, KGF, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) in the pathogenesis of ARDS. It is reasonable to speculate that elucidation of the key mediators in ARDS coupled with the discovery of specific inhibitors would make it possible to develop clinically effective anti-inflammatory therapy. Copyright ? 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Keragala, Charithani B.
AU  - Draxler, Dominik F.
AU  - McQuilten, Zoe K.
AU  - Medcalf, Robert L.
TI  - Haemostasis and innate immunity – a complementary relationship
JO  - British Journal of Haematology
JA  - Br J Haematol
VL  - 180
IS  - 6
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bjh.15062
DO  - doi:10.1111/bjh.15062
SP  - 782
EP  - 798
KW  - haemostasis
KW  - coagulation
KW  - complement
KW  - innate immunity
KW  - immunothrombosis
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary Coagulation and innate immunity are linked evolutionary processes that orchestrate the host defence against invading pathogens and injury. The complement system is integral to innate immunity and shares numerous interactions with components of the haemostatic pathway, helping to maintain physiological equilibrium. The term ?immunothrombosis? was introduced in 2013 to embrace this process, and has become an area of much recent interest. What is less apparent in the literature however is an appreciation of the clinical manifestations of the coagulation-complement interaction and the consequences of dysregulation of either system, as seen in many inflammatory and thrombotic disease states, such as sepsis, trauma, atherosclerosis, antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) and some thrombotic microangiopathies to name a few. The growing appreciation of this immunothrombotic phenomenon will foster the drive for novel therapies in these disease states, including anticoagulants as immunomodulators and targeted molecular therapies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ekdahl, Kristina N.
AU  - Teramura, Yuji
AU  - Hamad, Osama A.
AU  - Asif, Sana
AU  - Duehrkop, Claudia
AU  - Fromell, Karin
AU  - Gustafson, Elisabet
AU  - Hong, Jaan
AU  - Kozarcanin, Huda
AU  - Magnusson, Peetra U.
AU  - Huber-Lang, Markus
AU  - Garred, Peter
AU  - Nilsson, Bo
TI  - Dangerous liaisons: complement, coagulation, and kallikrein/kinin cross-talk act as a linchpin in the events leading to thromboinflammation
JO  - Immunological Reviews
JA  - Immunol Rev
VL  - 274
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imr.12471
DO  - doi:10.1111/imr.12471
SP  - 245
EP  - 269
KW  - coagulation
KW  - complement system
KW  - contact activation/kallikrein system
KW  - innate immunity
KW  - platelets
KW  - thromboinflammation
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Innate immunity is fundamental to our defense against microorganisms. Physiologically, the intravascular innate immune system acts as a purging system that identifies and removes foreign substances leading to thromboinflammatory responses, tissue remodeling, and repair. It is also a key contributor to the adverse effects observed in many diseases and therapies involving biomaterials and therapeutic cells/organs. The intravascular innate immune system consists of the cascade systems of the blood (the complement, contact, coagulation, and fibrinolytic systems), the blood cells (polymorphonuclear cells, monocytes, platelets), and the endothelial cell lining of the vessels. Activation of the intravascular innate immune system in vivo leads to thromboinflammation that can be activated by several of the system's pathways and that initiates repair after tissue damage and leads to adverse reactions in several disorders and treatment modalities. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge in the field and discuss the obstacles that exist in order to study the cross-talk between the components of the intravascular innate immune system. These include the use of purified in vitro systems, animal models and various types of anticoagulants. In order to avoid some of these obstacles we have developed specialized human whole blood models that allow investigation of the cross-talk between the various cascade systems and the blood cells. We in particular stress that platelets are involved in these interactions and that the lectin pathway of the complement system is an emerging part of innate immunity that interacts with the contact/coagulation system. Understanding the resulting thromboinflammation will allow development of new therapeutic modalities.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kroner, Jochen
AU  - Kovtun, Anna
AU  - Kemmler, Julia
AU  - Messmann, Joanna J
AU  - Strauss, Gudrun
AU  - Seitz, Sebastian
AU  - Schinke, Thorsten
AU  - Amling, Michael
AU  - Kotrba, Johanna
AU  - Froebel, Julia
AU  - Dudeck, Jan
AU  - Dudeck, Anne
AU  - Ignatius, Anita
TI  - Mast Cells Are Critical Regulators of Bone Fracture–Induced Inflammation and Osteoclast Formation and Activity
JO  - Journal of Bone and Mineral Research
JA  - J Bone Miner Res
VL  - 32
IS  - 12
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbmr.3234
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbmr.3234
SP  - 2431
EP  - 2444
KW  - MAST CELLS
KW  - INFLAMMATION
KW  - BONE TURNOVER
KW  - FRACTURE HEALING
KW  - OSTEOPOROSIS
PY  - 2017
AB  - ABSTRACT Mast cells, important sensor and effector cells of the immune system, may influence bone metabolism as their number is increased in osteoporotic patients. They are also present during bone fracture healing with currently unknown functions. Using a novel c-Kit-independent mouse model of mast cell deficiency, we demonstrated that mast cells did not affect physiological bone turnover. However, they triggered local and systemic inflammation after fracture by inducing release of inflammatory mediators and the recruitment of innate immune cells. In later healing stages, mast cells accumulated and regulated osteoclast activity to remodel the bony fracture callus. Furthermore, they were essential to induce osteoclast formation after ovariectomy. Additional in vitro studies revealed that they promote osteoclastogenesis via granular mediators, mainly histamine. In conclusion, mast cells are redundant in physiologic bone turnover but exert crucial functions after challenging the system, implicating mast cells as a potential target for treating inflammatory bone disorders. ? 2017 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fortunati, E.
AU  - Kazemier, K. M.
AU  - Grutters, J. C.
AU  - Koenderman, L.
AU  - Van den Bosch, Van J. M. M.
TI  - Human neutrophils switch to an activated phenotype after homing to the lung irrespective of inflammatory disease
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
VL  - 155
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2249.2008.03791.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2249.2008.03791.x
SP  - 559
EP  - 566
KW  - immunophenotype
KW  - lungs
KW  - neutrophils
KW  - sarcoidosis
KW  - surface receptors
PY  - 2009
AB  - Summary Systemic inflammation can be investigated by changes in expression profiles of neutrophil receptors. Application of this technology for analysis of neutrophil phenotypes in diseased tissues is hampered by the absence of information regarding the modulation of neutrophil phenotypes after extravasation to tissues under non-inflammatory conditions. To fill this gap we measured the expression of neutrophil receptors in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and in the peripheral blood of healthy volunteers, which included both smokers and non-smokers. Blood and BALF neutrophils were identified by CD16bright/CD45dim cells, and triple-stained with antibodies directed against integrins, chemokine- and Fc?-receptors. BALF neutrophils of healthy volunteers showed an activated phenotype characterized by Mac-1 (CD11b)bright, L-selectin (CD62L)dim, intrecellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) (CD54)bright, Fc?RII (CD32)bright, C5a receptor (CD88)bright and CD66bbright. A similar phenotype was observed for BALF neutrophils of patients affected by sarcoidosis. Furthermore, our results demonstrate a modulated expression of C5a receptor (CD88) and ICAM-1 (CD54) in neutrophils of sarcoidosis patients. In conclusion, our data indicate that neutrophils found in the lung exhibit an activated phenotype under both homeostatic and inflammatory conditions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Becskei, Csilla
AU  - Cuppens, Otto
AU  - Mahabir, Sean P.
TI  - Efficacy and safety of sarolaner in the treatment of canine ear mite infestation caused by Otodectes cynotis: a non-inferiority study
JO  - Veterinary Dermatology
JA  - Vet Dermatol
VL  - 29
IS  - 2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vde.12521
DO  - doi:10.1111/vde.12521
SP  - 100
EP  - e39
PY  - 2018
AB  - Background Various treatments are available for ear mite infestations in dogs. Objective The efficacy of sarolaner was evaluated against ear mite infestation caused by Otodectes cynotis in dogs and compared with topical moxidectin/imidacloprid in a single-masked, multi-centre field study. Animals Client-owned dogs with O. cynotis infestation were treated monthly with oral sarolaner (n = 163) or topical moxidectin/imidacloprid (n = 78). Methods The presence of mites in the ear canals and the clinical signs associated with otoacariasis (including head shaking, pruritus/ear scratching, trauma or alopecia of the pinnae, and erythema, ulceration and debris in the ear canals) was evaluated on days 0, 14 and 30, and, if applicable, on day 60. Dogs were considered cured of mite infestation following one (on day 0) or two (on days 0 and 30) monthly treatments, if no live mites were found in either ear. Non-inferiority was evaluated at days 14 and 30. Results Parasitological cure was achieved in 76.4%, 90.5% and 93.3% of the sarolaner-treated and in 53.9%, 63.5% and 66.7% of the moxidectin/imidacloprid-treated dogs on days 14, 30 and 60, respectively. At study completion, on day 60 at the latest, parasitological cure was achieved overall in 99.4% of sarolaner-treated and 87.8% of moxidectin/imidacloprid-treated cases. The parasitological cure rate for sarolaner was non-inferior to moxidectin/imidacloprid at days 14 and 30. The clinical signs of otoacariasis improved throughout the study in both groups. There were no treatment-related adverse events. Conclusions A single oral administration of sarolaner was safe and highly effective in the treatment of O. cynotis infestation in dogs.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Andersson, C.
AU  - Wenander, C. S.
AU  - Usher, P. A.
AU  - Hebsgaard, J. B.
AU  - Sondergaard, B.-C.
AU  - Rønø, B.
AU  - Mackay, C.
AU  - Friedrichsen, B.
AU  - Chang, C.
AU  - Tang, R.
AU  - Hornum, L.
TI  - Rapid-onset clinical and mechanistic effects of anti-C5aR treatment in the mouse collagen-induced arthritis model
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
JA  - Clin Exp Immunol
VL  - 177
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cei.12338
DO  - doi:10.1111/cei.12338
SP  - 219
EP  - 233
KW  - anti-C5aR
KW  - arthritis
KW  - macrophages
KW  - neutrophils
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary Preclinical evidence supports targeting the C5a receptor (C5aR) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To support ongoing clinical development of an anti-C5aR monoclonal antibody, we have investigated for the first time the mechanism of action and the pharmacodynamics of a blocking anti-murine C5aR (anti-mC5aR) surrogate antibody in mouse collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). First, efficacy was demonstrated in a multiple-dose treatment study. Almost complete inhibition of clinical disease progression was obtained, including reduced bone and cartilage destruction in anti-mC5aR-treated mice. Then, the mechanism of action was examined by looking for early effects of anti-mC5aR treatment in single-dose treatment studies. We found that 48?h after single-dose treatment with anti-mC5aR, the neutrophil and macrophage infiltration into the paws was already reduced. In addition, several inflammatory markers, including tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-17A were reduced locally in the paws, indicating reduction of local inflammation. Furthermore, dose-setting experiments supported a beneficial clinical effect of dosing above the C5aR saturation level. In conclusion, these preclinical data demonstrated rapid onset effects of antibody blockade of C5aR. The data have translational value in supporting the Novo Nordisk clinical trials of an anti-C5aR antibody in rheumatoid arthritis patients, by identifying potential biomarkers of treatment effects as well as by providing information on pharmacodynamics and novel insights into the mechanism of action of monoclonal antibody blockade of C5aR.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - George, Mitchell J.
AU  - Prabhakara, Karthik
AU  - Toledano-Furman, Naama E.
AU  - Wang, Yao-Wei
AU  - Gill, Brijesh S.
AU  - Wade, Charles E.
AU  - Olson, Scott D.
AU  - Cox Jr., Charles S.
TI  - Clinical Cellular Therapeutics Accelerate Clot Formation
JO  - STEM CELLS Translational Medicine
JA  - STEM CELLS Translational Medicine
VL  - 7
IS  - 10
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/sctm.18-0015
DO  - doi:10.1002/sctm.18-0015
SP  - 731
EP  - 739
KW  - Tissue factor
KW  - Coagulation
KW  - Clinical cellular therapeutics
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Clinical cellular therapeutics (CCTs) have shown preliminary efficacy in reducing inflammation after trauma, preserving cardiac function after myocardial infarction, and improving functional recovery after stroke. However, most clinically available cell lines express tissue factor (TF) which stimulates coagulation. We sought to define the degree of procoagulant activity of CCTs as related to TF expression. CCT samples from bone marrow, adipose, amniotic fluid, umbilical cord, multi-potent adult progenitor cell donors, and bone marrow mononuclear cells were tested. TF expression and phenotype were quantified using flow cytometry. Procoagulant activity of the CCTs was measured in vitro with thromboelastography and calibrated thrombogram. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) separated samples into high- and low-TF expressing populations to isolate the contribution of TF to coagulation. A TF neutralizing antibody was incubated with samples to demonstrate loss of procoagulant function. All CCTs tested expressed procoagulant activity that correlated with expression of tissue factor. Time to clot and thrombin formation decreased with increasing TF expression. High-TF expressing cells decreased clotting time more than low-TF expressing cells when isolated from a single donor using FACS. A TF neutralizing antibody restored clotting time to control values in some, but not all, CCT samples. CCTs demonstrate wide variability in procoagulant activity related to TF expression. Time to clot and thrombin formation decreases as TF load increases and this procoagulant effect is neutralized by a TF blocking antibody. Clinical trials using CCTs are in progress and TF expression may emerge as a safety release criterion. Stem Cells Translational Medicine 2018;7:731?739
ER  - 
