
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cheng, Hua
AU  - Wang, Miao
AU  - Li, Jian-Liang
AU  - Cairns, Nigel J.
AU  - Han, Xianlin
TI  - Specific changes of sulfatide levels in individuals with pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease: an early event in disease pathogenesis
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
JA  - J. Neurochem.
VL  - 127
IS  - 6
SN  - 0022-3042
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jnc.12368
DO  - doi:10.1111/jnc.12368
SP  - 733
EP  - 738
KW  - ceramide
KW  - membrane lipids
KW  - plasmalogen
KW  - pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease
KW  - shotgun lipidomics
KW  - sulfatide
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract To explore the hypothesis that alterations in cellular membrane lipids are present at the stage of pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease (AD) (i.e., cognitively normal at death, but with AD neuropathology), we performed targeted shotgun lipidomics of lipid extracts from post-mortem brains of subjects with pre-clinical AD. We found sulfatide levels were significantly lower in subjects with pre-clinical AD compared to those without AD neuropathology. We also found that the level of ethanolamine glycerophospholipid was marginally lower at this stage of AD, whereas changes of the ceramide levels were undetectable with the available samples. These results indicate that cellular membrane defects are present at the earliest stages of AD pathogenesis and also suggest that sulfatide loss is among the earliest events of AD development, while alterations in the levels of ethanolamine glycerophospholipid and ceramide occur relatively later in disease.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Haque, Md. Mamunul
AU  - Im, Hye-Yeon
AU  - Seo, Ji-Eun
AU  - Hasan, Mahbub
AU  - Woo, Kyoungja
AU  - Kwon, Oh-Seung
TI  - Acute toxicity and tissue distribution of CdSe/CdS-MPA quantum dots after repeated intraperitoneal injection to mice
JO  - Journal of Applied Toxicology
JA  - J. Appl. Toxicol.
VL  - 33
IS  - 9
SN  - 0260-437X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jat.2775
DO  - doi:10.1002/jat.2775
SP  - 940
EP  - 950
KW  - acute toxicity
KW  - tissue distribution
KW  - CdSe/CdS-MPA quantum dots
KW  - mice
KW  - repeated intraperitoneal injection
KW  - lactate dehydrogenase
KW  - NADPH oxidase
PY  - 2013
AB  - ABSTRACT Quantum dots (QDs) are novel tools with multiple biological and medical applications because of their superior photoemission and photostability characteristics. However, leaching of toxic metals from QDs is of great concern. Therefore, for the successful application of QDs in bioscience, it is essential to understand their biological fate and toxicity. We investigated toxicological effects and tissue distribution of mercaptopropionic acid-conjugated cadmium selenide/cadmium sulfide (CdSe/CdS-MPA) QDs after repeated intraperitoneal injection into BALB/c mice. The mice were injected every 3?days with various doses of QDs (0, 5, 10 and 25?mg?kg?1). The subsequent effects of QDs on plasma levels of various biomarkers were evaluated at different time points (at 0, 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 15?days). Various tissue samples (spleen, liver, lung, kidneys, brain, heart and thymus) were collected for toxicity analysis, distribution testing, histopathological examination and inflammation assessment. No abnormal clinical signs or behaviors were recorded but the body weight of mice treated with 25?mg?kg?1 QDs was significantly decreased from day 7 compared with control mice. QDs were observed in the liver, spleen, lung and kidneys, but not in brain or heart. Significantly higher levels of lactate dehydrogenase and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase were found in the plasma, liver and spleen. Histopathological examination did not show any tissue toxicity but the levels of interleukin-6, a pro-inflammatory marker, were increased in the plasma, liver and spleen. All of these findings provide insight into the observed toxicological effect levels and tissue-specific distribution of CdSe/CdS-MPA QDs. Copyright ? 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kershaw, Joanna L.
AU  - Sherrill, Meredith
AU  - Davison, Nicholas J.
AU  - Brownlow, Andrew
AU  - Hall, Ailsa J.
TI  - Evaluating morphometric and metabolic markers of body condition in a small cetacean, the harbor porpoise (Phocoena phocoena)
JO  - Ecology and Evolution
JA  - Ecol Evol
VL  - 7
IS  - 10
SN  - 2045-7758
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ece3.2891
DO  - doi:10.1002/ece3.2891
SP  - 3494
EP  - 3506
KW  - blubber biopsies
KW  - body condition index
KW  - cetaceans
KW  - cortisol
KW  - mass/length2
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Mammalian body condition is an important individual fitness metric as it affects both survival and reproductive success. The ability to accurately measure condition has key implications for predicting individual and population health, and therefore monitoring the population-level effects of changing environments. No consensus currently exists on the best measure to quantitatively estimate body condition in many species, including cetaceans. Here, two measures of body condition were investigated in the harbor porpoise (Phocoena phocoena). First, the most informative morphometric body condition index was identified. The mass/length2 ratio was the most appropriate morphometric index of 10 indices tested, explaining 50% of the variation in condition in stranded, male porpoises with different causes of death and across age classes (n = 291). Mass/length2 was then used to evaluate a second measure, blubber cortisol concentration, as a metabolic condition marker. Cortisol is the main glucocorticoid hormone involved in the regulation of lipolysis and overall energy balance in mammals, and concentrations could provide information on physiological state. Blubber cortisol concentrations did not significantly vary around the girth (n = 20), but there was significant vertical stratification through the blubber depth with highest concentrations in the innermost layer. Concentrations in the dorsal, outermost layer were representative of concentrations through the full blubber depth, showed variation by sex and age class, and were negatively correlated with mass/length2. Using this species as a model for live cetaceans from which standard morphometric measurements cannot be taken, but from which blubber biopsy samples are routinely collected, cortisol concentrations in the dorsal, outermost blubber layer could potentially be used as a biomarker of condition in free-ranging animals.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - He, Naying
AU  - Ling, Huawei
AU  - Ding, Bei
AU  - Huang, Juan
AU  - Zhang, Yong
AU  - Zhang, Zhongping
AU  - Liu, Chunlei
AU  - Chen, Kemin
AU  - Yan, Fuhua
TI  - Region-specific disturbed iron distribution in early idiopathic Parkinson's disease measured by quantitative susceptibility mapping
JO  - Human Brain Mapping
JA  - Hum. Brain Mapp.
VL  - 36
IS  - 11
SN  - 1065-9471
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.22928
DO  - doi:10.1002/hbm.22928
SP  - 4407
EP  - 4420
KW  - early Parkinson's disease
KW  - magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - quantitative susceptibility mapping
KW  - deep grey matter nuclei
KW  - iron deposition
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract In Parkinson's disease (PD), iron elevation in specific brain regions as well as selective loss of dopaminergic neurons is a major pathologic feature. A reliable quantitative measure of iron deposition is a potential biomarker for PD and may contribute to the investigation of iron-mediated PD. The primary purpose of this study is to assess iron variations in multiple deep grey matter nuclei in early PD with a novel MRI technique, quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM). The inter-group differences of susceptibility and R2* value in deep grey matter nuclei, namely head of caudate nucleus (CN), putamen (PUT), global pallidus (GP), substantia nigra (SN), and red nucleus (RN), and the correlations between regional iron deposition and the clinical features were explored in forty-four early PD patients and 35 gender and age-matched healthy controls. Susceptibility values were found to be elevated within bilateral SN and RN contralateral to the most affected limb in early PD compared with healthy controls (HCs). The finding of increased susceptibility in bilateral SN is consistent with work on a subgroup of patients at the earliest clinical detectable state (Hoehn and Yahr [1967]: Neurology 17:427?442; Stage I). However, increased R2* values were only seen within SN contralateral to the most affected limb in the PD group when compared with controls. Furthermore, bilateral SN magnetic susceptibility positively correlated with disease duration and UPDRS-III scores in early PD. This finding supports the potential value of QSM as a non-invasive quantitative biomarker of early PD. Hum Brain Mapp 36:4407?4420, 2015. ? 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jones, Ryan T.
AU  - Barth, Albert M.
AU  - Ormiston, Laurel D.
AU  - Mody, Istvan
TI  - Evolution of temporal and spectral dynamics of pathologic high-frequency oscillations (pHFOs) during epileptogenesis
JO  - Epilepsia
JA  - Epilepsia
VL  - 56
IS  - 12
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/epi.13218
DO  - doi:10.1111/epi.13218
SP  - 1879
EP  - 1889
KW  - Temporal lobe epilepsy
KW  - Dentate gyrus
KW  - CA1
KW  - Pathologic high-frequency oscillations
KW  - Latent period
KW  - Epileptogenesis
KW  - Kainic acid
PY  - 2015
AB  - Summary Objective In temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), pathologic high frequency oscillations (pHFOs, 200?600 Hz) are present in the hippocampus, especially the dentate gyrus (DG). The pHFOs emerge during a latent period prior to the onset of spontaneous generalized seizures. We used a unilateral suprahippocampal injection of kainic acid (KA) mouse model of TLE to characterize the properties of hippocampal pHFOs during epileptogenesis. Methods In awake head-fixed mice, 4?14 days after KA-induced status epilepticus (SE), we recorded local field potentials (LFPs) with 64-channel silicon probes spanning from CA1 alveus to the DG hilus, or with glass pipettes in the DC mode in the CA1 str radiatum. Results The pHFOs, are observed simultaneously in the CA1 and the DG, or in the DG alone, as early as 4 days post-SE. The pHFOs ride on top of DC deflections, occur during motionless periods, persist through the onset of TLE, and are generated in bursts. Burst parameters remain remarkably constant during epileptogenesis, with a random number of pHFOs generated per burst. In contrast, pHFO duration and spectral dynamics evolve from short events at 4 days post-SE to prolonged discharges with complex spectral characteristics by 14 days post-SE. Simultaneous dural EEG recordings were exceedingly unreliable for detecting hippocampal pHFOs; therefore, such recordings may deceptively indicate a ?silent? period even when massive hippocampal activity is present. Significance Our results demonstrate that hippocampal pHFOs exhibit a dynamic evolution during the epileptogenic period following SE, consistent with their role in transitioning to the chronic stage of TLE.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Curran, T.-I.
AU  - Cronin, O.
AU  - Coffey, F. T.
AU  - Keohane, D. M.
AU  - McCarthy, Y.
AU  - Dahly, D. L.
AU  - Molloy, M. G.
AU  - Falvey, E. C.
TI  - Physiological adaptations in ultra-endurance athletes during a 5-day multisport Adventure Race: An assessment of serological and inflammatory cytokine profiles
JO  - Translational Sports Medicine
JA  - Transl Sports Med
VL  - 1
IS  - 3
SN  - 2573-8488
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/tsm2.25
DO  - doi:10.1002/tsm2.25
SP  - 120
EP  - 131
KW  - adventure racing
KW  - endurance exercise
KW  - sports medicine
PY  - 2018
AB  - Multiday endurance sports expose athletes to multiple physical stressors. Little is known about the athletes? physiological responses to these stressors. A detailed understanding of the serological changes that occur during competition may improve the treatment of athletes suffering from illness or injury. This prospective, observational study aimed to characterize serological changes in AR athletes across multiday competition. Athletes underwent venipuncture at the start, midpoint, and end of a 5-day, multidiscipline event. A variety of serological and inflammatory factors was measured and then analyzed to describe their changes over the course of the race. A total of 27 AR athletes (29.6% female, 70.4% male) met inclusion criteria out of 33 recruited initially. The mean age was 37.7 (IQR 32.5, 41). The median race time for athletes was 133 hours (IQR 123, 142). Serum creatinine, sodium, and potassium tended to remain stable as the race progressed. Conversely, serological measures, including hemoglobin, interleukin-6, and C-reactive protein levels, tended to change substantially during the race. Participants demonstrated the ability to maintain homeostasis, despite significant physiological threat. Renal function, electrolyte balance, and hormonal profiles were stable. However, a pro-inflammatory response and decrease in red cell availability were evident by the midpoint of the race.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Schoch, Kathleen M.
AU  - von Reyn, Catherine R.
AU  - Bian, Jifeng
AU  - Telling, Glenn C.
AU  - Meaney, David F.
AU  - Saatman, Kathryn E.
TI  - Brain injury-induced proteolysis is reduced in a novel calpastatin-overexpressing transgenic mouse
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
JA  - J. Neurochem.
VL  - 125
IS  - 6
SN  - 0022-3042
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jnc.12144
DO  - doi:10.1111/jnc.12144
SP  - 909
EP  - 920
KW  - calcium
KW  - calpain
KW  - CRMP-2
KW  - protease
KW  - sodium channel
KW  - spectrin
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract The calpain family of calcium-dependent proteases has been implicated in a variety of diseases and neurodegenerative pathologies. Prolonged activation of calpains results in proteolysis of numerous cellular substrates including cytoskeletal components and membrane receptors, contributing to cell demise despite coincident expression of calpastatin, the specific inhibitor of calpains. Pharmacological and gene-knockout strategies have targeted calpains to determine their contribution to neurodegenerative pathology; however, limitations associated with treatment paradigms, drug specificity, and genetic disruptions have produced inconsistent results and complicated interpretation. Specific, targeted calpain inhibition achieved by enhancing endogenous calpastatin levels offers unique advantages in studying pathological calpain activation. We have characterized a novel calpastatin-overexpressing transgenic mouse model, demonstrating a substantial increase in calpastatin expression within nervous system and peripheral tissues and associated reduction in protease activity. Experimental activation of calpains via traumatic brain injury resulted in cleavage of α-spectrin, collapsin response mediator protein-2, and voltage-gated sodium channel, critical proteins for the maintenance of neuronal structure and function. Calpastatin overexpression significantly attenuated calpain-mediated proteolysis of these selected substrates acutely following severe controlled cortical impact injury, but with no effect on acute hippocampal neurodegeneration. Augmenting calpastatin levels may be an effective method for calpain inhibition in traumatic brain injury and neurodegenerative disorders.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gallagher, Michael J.
AU  - Raff,, Gilbert L.
TI  - Use of multislice CT for the evaluation of emergency room patients with chest pain: The so-called “Triple rule-out”
JO  - Catheterization and Cardiovascular Interventions
JA  - Cathet. Cardiovasc. Intervent.
VL  - 71
IS  - 1
SN  - 1522-1946
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ccd.21398
DO  - doi:10.1002/ccd.21398
SP  - 92
EP  - 99
KW  - computed tomography
KW  - angiography
KW  - acute coronary syndrome
KW  - safety
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Recent advances in computed tomography (CT) technology have made high resolution noninvasive coronary angiograms possible. Multiple studies involving over 2,000 patients have established that coronary CT angiography (CCTA) is highly accurate for delineation of the presence and severity of coronary atherosclerosis. The high negative predictive value (>95%) found in these studies suggests that CCTA is an attractive option for exclusion of coronary artery disease in properly selected emergency department patients with acute chest pain. CT is also a well established and accurate tool for the diagnosis of acute aortic dissection and pulmonary embolism. Recent technical developments now permit acquisition of well-opacified images of the coronary arteries, thoracic aorta and pulmonary arteries from a single CT scan. While this so called ?triple-rule out? scan protocol can potentially exclude fatal causes of chest pain in all three vascular beds, the attendant higher radiation dose of this method precludes its routine use except when there is sufficient support for the diagnosis of either aortic dissection or pulmonary embolism. This article provides an overview of CCTA, and reviews the clinical evidence supporting the use of this technique for triage of patients with acute chest pain. ? 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mesbah, Kiarach
AU  - Oukacine, Farid
AU  - Lehnert, Stefan
AU  - Otto, Markus
AU  - Taverna, Myriam
TI  - On-line capillary electrophoresis derivatization method for high sensitivity analysis of ubiquitin in filtered cerebrospinal fluid
JO  - ELECTROPHORESIS
JA  - ELECTROPHORESIS
VL  - 34
IS  - 18
SN  - 0173-0835
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/elps.201300155
DO  - doi:10.1002/elps.201300155
SP  - 2733
EP  - 2739
KW  - Alzheimer's disease
KW  - Cerebrospinal fluid
KW  - CZE
KW  - Derivatization
KW  - Ubiquitin
PY  - 2013
AB  - Electrophoretically mediated microanalysis was implemented for on-line fluorescence derivatization of ubiquitin (UBI), a potential biomarker of Alzheimer disease. Ubiquitin was labeled on its amino groups by the Fluoprobes? 488 N-hydroxysuccinimide. The pH of the BGE, the applied electric field, and the washing process of the capillary were optimized. The best derivatization yield was obtained at pH 9.5 under an electric field of ?210 V/cm. The concentration and volume of the fluorescent dye as well as the sample medium and volume of injected UBI were also optimized. In order to improve further the LOD of UBI, electrophoretically mediated microanalysis was performed in a wider (100 ?m id) and longer (110 cm) capillary. As expected, these capillary dimensions improved the analytical sensitivity of UBI when compared to the 50 ?m id capillary. Under the optimized conditions, this analytical methodology allowed the analysis of free UBI in standard solution with a LOD of ?15 nM. Finally, the on-line fluorescent derivatization of UBI was applied to the detection and the quantification of UBI in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples. Due to the high salt concentration of biological samples, desalting of CSF was required prior to the CE analysis. Quantification of UBI in CSF either by a direct evaluation of peak areas or using the standard addition method was achieved.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wang, Xuewen
AU  - Liu, Zheng
AU  - Zhang, Ting
C7  - 1602790
TI  - Flexible Sensing Electronics for Wearable/Attachable Health Monitoring
JO  - Small
JA  - Small
VL  - 13
IS  - 25
SN  - 1613-6810
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201602790
DO  - doi:10.1002/smll.201602790
SP  - 1602790
KW  - flexible electronics
KW  - health monitoring
KW  - pressure sensors
KW  - wearable electronics
PY  - 2017
AB  - Wearable or attachable health monitoring smart systems are considered to be the next generation of personal portable devices for remote medicine practices. Smart flexible sensing electronics are components crucial in endowing health monitoring systems with the capability of real-time tracking of physiological signals. These signals are closely associated with body conditions, such as heart rate, wrist pulse, body temperature, blood/intraocular pressure and blood/sweat bio-information. Monitoring such physiological signals provides a convenient and non-invasive way for disease diagnoses and health assessments. This Review summarizes the recent progress of flexible sensing electronics for their use in wearable/attachable health monitoring systems. Meanwhile, we present an overview of different materials and configurations for flexible sensors, including piezo-resistive, piezo-electrical, capacitive, and field effect transistor based devices, and analyze the working principles in monitoring physiological signals. In addition, the future perspectives of wearable healthcare systems and the technical demands on their commercialization are briefly discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Posters Abstracts
JO  - Research and Practice in Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - Res Pract Thromb Haemost
VL  - 3
IS  - S1
SN  - 2475-0328
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rth2.12229
DO  - doi:10.1002/rth2.12229
SP  - 1
EP  - 891
PY  - 2019
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ren, Jimin
AU  - Shang, Ty
AU  - Sherry, A. Dean
AU  - Malloy, Craig R.
TI  - Unveiling a hidden 31P signal coresonating with extracellular inorganic phosphate by outer-volume-suppression and localized 31P MRS in the human brain at 7T
JO  - Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
JA  - Magn. Reson. Med.
VL  - 80
IS  - 4
SN  - 0740-3194
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mrm.27121
DO  - doi:10.1002/mrm.27121
SP  - 1289
EP  - 1297
KW  - 31P MRS
KW  - blood
KW  - brain
KW  - CSF
KW  - inorganic phosphate
KW  - pH
PY  - 2018
AB  - Purpose The study was undertaken to demonstrate that there is more than 1 component in the extracellular Pi 31P signal ( ) acquired from human head using nonlocalized 31P MRS. Methods Outer-volume-suppression (OVS) saturation and 1D/2D 31P CSI were utilized to reveal the presence of an additional component in the signal. Results 67% of the head extracellular Pi signal was attenuated upon OVS saturation of the peripheral meningeal tissues, likely reflecting elimination of the Pi signal in the meningeal fluids (the blood and CSF). Localized 1D/2D CSI data provided further support for this assignment. Upon correction for the meningeal contribution, the extracellular Pi concentration was 0.51?±?0.07?mM, whereas the intracellular Pi was 0.85?±?0.10?mM. The extracellular pH was measured as 7.32?±?0.04 when using OVS, as compared to 7.39?±?0.03 when measured without OVS (N?=?7 subjects). Conclusion The extracellular Pi signal acquired from the human head using nonlocalized 31P MRS contains a significant component likely contributed by peripheral blood and CSF in meninges that must be removed in order to use this signal as an endogenous probe for measuring extracellular pH and other properties in the brain.
ER  - 

AU  - Czibere, Ludwig
AU  - Diepold, Rebekka P.
AU  - Umriukhin, Alexey E.
AU  - Landgraf, Rainer
AU  - Sotnikov, Sergey V.
C7  - pp. 257-278
TI  - HAB/LAB Mice and Rats: Approaching the Genetics and Epigenetics of Trait Anxiety
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119391128.ch11
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119391128.ch11
SP  - 257-278
KW  - arginine vasopressin
KW  - biomarker discovery
KW  - HAB mouse model
KW  - LAB mouse model
KW  - normal anxiety mice
KW  - trait anxiety
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary To investigate the mechanisms behind psychopathologies that are the result of a myriad of genes, cells, neuronal circuits and their way of communicating with each other, animal models that resemble one core aspect or core symptom of a given disorder are required. Therefore, we focused on anxiety, namely anxiety-related behaviors, a core symptom of anxiety disorders. Every animal exhibits anxiety, as it is an essential part of evolution and an individual's decision of ?fight or flight? in a given situation might be the last decision it ever takes. Our HAB/LAB mouse and rat models of inborn trait anxiety focused on the following points, first to breed the animals with selection pressure exerted on extremely high vs. extremely low anxiety, then to genetically fix this trait by inbreeding. Following this, we could start to examine what lies behind the respective behavior, what kind of behaviors are associated with it and next, which brain circuitries, molecules, genes and gene products differ between our animal lines to bring about this inborn behavior. Finally, we investigated the impact of environmental factors on genetically (seemingly) rigid anxiety-related behaviors in order to evaluate gene-environment interactions, which brought us from gene analyses to the study of epigenetic mechanisms related to the regulation of anxiety.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ding, Xiaoyu
AU  - Yang, Yihong
AU  - Stein, Elliot A.
AU  - Ross, Thomas J.
TI  - Multivariate classification of smokers and nonsmokers using SVM-RFE on structural MRI images
JO  - Human Brain Mapping
JA  - Hum. Brain Mapp.
VL  - 36
IS  - 12
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.22956
DO  - doi:10.1002/hbm.22956
SP  - 4869
EP  - 4879
KW  - smoking addiction
KW  - structural MRI
KW  - voxel-based morphometry
KW  - support vector machine
KW  - recursive feature elimination
KW  - multivariate classification
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) studies have revealed gray matter alterations in smokers, but this type of analysis has poor predictive value for individual cases, which limits its applicability in clinical diagnoses and treatment. A predictive model would essentially embody a complex biomarker that could be used to evaluate treatment efficacy. In this study, we applied VBM along with a multivariate classification method consisting of a support vector machine with recursive feature elimination to discriminate smokers from nonsmokers using their structural MRI data. Mean gray matter volumes in 1,024 cerebral cortical regions of interest created using a subparcellated version of the Automated Anatomical Labeling template were calculated from 60 smokers and 60 nonsmokers, and served as input features to the classification procedure. The classifier achieved the highest accuracy of 69.6% when taking the 139 highest ranked features via 10-fold cross-validation. Critically, these features were later validated on an independent testing set that consisted of 28 smokers and 28 nonsmokers, yielding a 64.04% accuracy level (binomial P = 0.01). Following classification, exploratory post hoc regression analyses were performed, which revealed that gray matter volumes in the putamen, hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, cingulate cortex, caudate, thalamus, pre-/postcentral gyrus, precuneus, and the parahippocampal gyrus, were inversely related to smoking behavioral characteristics. These results not only indicate that smoking related gray matter alterations can provide predictive power for group membership, but also suggest that machine learning techniques can reveal underlying smoking-related neurobiology. Hum Brain Mapp 36:4869?4879, 2015. Published 2015. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Laihia, Jarmo
AU  - Järvinen, Riikka
AU  - Wylęgała, Edward
AU  - Kaarniranta, Kai
TI  - Disease aetiology-based design of multifunctional microemulsion eye drops for moderate or severe dry eye: a randomized, quadruple-masked and active-controlled clinical trial
JO  - Acta Ophthalmologica
JA  - Acta Ophthalmol
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/aos.14252
DO  - doi:10.1111/aos.14252
KW  - fatty acids, omega-3
KW  - hyaluronic acid
KW  - lubricant eye drops
KW  - ophthalmic emulsion
KW  - osmolar concentration
KW  - protective agents
KW  - tears
KW  - trehalose
AB  - Abstract Purpose To assess the safety and efficacy of multi-ingredient sacha inchi microemulsion (SIME) eye drops designed to target (1) tear film instability, (2) tear hyperosmolarity, and (3) ocular surface damage and inflammation in moderate or severe dry eye. Methods This randomized, quadruple-masked, active-controlled parallel study in 64 adult patients comprised three parts. Part 1 (n = 3): one eye was treated with SIME for one day. Part 2 (n = 9): randomized eyes were treated with SIME and 0.2% hyaluronic acid (HA) control eye drops 3 times a day for 10 days. Part 3 (n = 26 + 26): randomized treatment was applied on both eyes 3 times a day for 30 days. OSDI change was tested for superiority of SIME over HA. Ocular assessments were performed at baseline and after the last dose. Results Both treatments were well tolerated without adverse device effects. Tear film break-up time (p = 0.0025) and ocular protection index (p = 0.0026; change vs. HA, p = 0.047) increased significantly with SIME after 30 days. Tear osmolarity decreased more in SIME than in the HA group and significantly with both eye drops in hyperosmolar subgroups. Corneal (p = 0.014) and nasal conjunctival staining (p = 0.043) were reduced with SIME in per-protocol patients (n = 24). Conjunctival (p = 0.001) and lid redness (p = 0.012) decreased with SIME in all patients (n = 26). Symptoms decreased by about 25 OSDI units with both treatments (p < 0.0001) and with nonsignificant difference between treatments. Conclusions Sacha inchi microemulsion (SIME) proved safe and efficacious in improving each aetiologic factor for dry eye as revealed through objective tests. Hyperosmolar stress dominating blink cycles must be disrupted by biophysical protection of the ocular surface to facilitate resolution of cellular damage and inflammation, and relief of ocular symptoms.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zijlstra, Laurien E.
AU  - Constantinescu, Alina A.
AU  - Manintveld, Olivier
AU  - Birim, Ozcan
AU  - Hesselink, Dennis A.
AU  - van Thiel, Robert
AU  - van Domburg, Ron
AU  - Balk, Aggie H. M.
AU  - Caliskan, Kadir
TI  - Improved long-term survival in Dutch heart transplant patients despite increasing donor age: the Rotterdam experience
JO  - Transplant International
JA  - Transpl Int
VL  - 28
IS  - 8
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tri.12503
DO  - doi:10.1111/tri.12503
SP  - 962
EP  - 971
KW  - heart transplantation
KW  - older donors
KW  - prognosis
KW  - survival
PY  - 2015
AB  - Summary Over the past decades donor and recipient characteristics and medical management of heart transplantation (HT) patients have changed markedly. We studied the impact of these changes on long-term clinical outcome. Data of all consecutive HT recipients in our center have been collected prospectively. Cohort A (n = 353) was defined as the adult pts transplanted between 1984 and 1999 and was compared with cohort B (n = 227) transplanted between 2000 and 2013. Compared with cohort A, recipients in cohort B had older donors (mean age 29 vs. 43 years, donors aged >50 year: 2% vs. 33%, respectively). Survival at 1 and 10 years in cohort A vs. B was 89% vs. 86% and 53% vs. 68%, respectively (P = 0.02). Cohort B pts were treated more often with tacrolimus-based immunosuppression (77% vs. 22%; P = <0.0001) and early statins post-HT (88% vs. 18%; P = 0.0001), while renal function was better conserved at 5 and 10 years (P = 0.001 and 0.02). Multivariate analysis showed significant reduction in 10-year mortality with tacrolimus-based immunosuppression (HR 0.27 and 95% CI 0.17?0.42), hypertension post-HT (HR 0.5, 95% CI 0.36?0.72), and revascularization (HR 0.28, 95% CI 0.15?0.52). In spite of the use of much older donors, the long-term outcome after HT has improved considerably in the last decade, probably due to the introduction of newer treatment modalities.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Makwana, Milan
AU  - Serchov, Tsvetan
AU  - Hristova, Mariya
AU  - Bohatschek, Marion
AU  - Gschwendtner, Andreas
AU  - Kalla, Roger
AU  - Liu, ZhiQiang
AU  - Heumann, Rolf
AU  - Raivich, Genndij
TI  - Regulation and function of neuronal GTP-Ras in facial motor nerve regeneration
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
VL  - 108
IS  - 6
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-4159.2009.05890.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1471-4159.2009.05890.x
SP  - 1453
EP  - 1463
KW  - axonal regeneration
KW  - central sprouting
KW  - lymphocyte influx
KW  - motor neuron cell death
KW  - oncogene
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Activation of Ras into the GTP-binding, ?ON? state is a key switch in the neurotrophin-mediated neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth, in vitro as well as in vivo. In the current study we explored changes in GTP-Ras levels following facial nerve injury and the ensuing regeneration and the effects of perturbing these changes in vivo using synapsin-promoter mediated neuronal expression of constitutively active Val12H-Ras (synRas). Quantification of GTP-Ras and total Ras revealed a precipitous drop in the relative GTP-Ras levels in the axotomized facial motor nucleus, to 40% of normal levels at 2?days after cut, followed by a partial recovery to 50?65% at 4?28?days. On western blots, control and axotomized nuclei from synRas mutants showed a 2.2- and 2.5-fold elevation in GTP-Ras, respectively, compared with their wild type littermate controls (p?<?5%, anova, TUKEY post-hoc), with the levels in the axotomized synRas nucleus slightly but not significantly above that in the uninjured littermate control (p?=?9.9%). Similar increase was also observed in the pERK but not pAKT targets of the Ras cascade. This moderate elevation of GTP-Ras strongly curtailed post-traumatic neuronal cell death (?65%), the influx of T-cells (?48%) as well as other parameters of neuroinflammatory response. Although synRas did not affect the speed of axonal regeneration or functional recovery it caused a very pronounced increase in central axonal sprouting. These current data emphasize the role of reduced active Ras, and by extension, the reduced overall level of retrograde neurotrophin signalling after axotomy, in mediating post-traumatic cell death and inflammation and in restricting the sprouting response. Moreover, the neuroprotective and central sprouting-enhancing effects of neuronal Val12H-Ras could help promote recovery in CNS injury.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Haines, David D.
AU  - Juhasz, Bela
AU  - Tosaki, Arpad
TI  - Management of multicellular senescence and oxidative stress
JO  - Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
JA  - J. Cell. Mol. Med.
VL  - 17
IS  - 8
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jcmm.12074
DO  - doi:10.1111/jcmm.12074
SP  - 936
EP  - 957
KW  - apoptosis
KW  - necrosis
KW  - autophagy
KW  - necroptosis
KW  - senescence
KW  - oxidative stress
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Progressively sophisticated understanding of cellular and molecular processes that contribute to age-related physical deterioration is being gained from ongoing research into cancer, chronic inflammatory syndromes and other serious disorders that increase with age. Particularly valuable insight has resulted from characterization of how senescent cells affect the tissues in which they form in ways that decrease an organism's overall viability. Increasingly, the underlying pathophysiology of ageing is recognized as a consequence of oxidative damage. This leads to hyperactivity of cell growth pathways, prominently including mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin), that contribute to a build-up in cells of toxic aggregates such as progerin (a mutant nuclear cytoskeletal protein), lipofuscin and other cellular debris, triggering formation of senescent cellular phenotypes, which interact destructively with surrounding tissue. Indeed, senescent cell ablation dramatically inhibits physical deterioration in progeroid (age-accelerated) mice. This review explores ways in which oxidative stress creates ageing-associated cellular damage and triggers induction of the cell death/survival programs? apoptosis, necrosis, autophagy and ?necroapoptophagy?. The concept of ?necroapoptophagy? is presented here as a strategy for varying tissue oxidative stress intensity in ways that induce differential activation of death versus survival programs, resulting in enhanced and sustained representation of healthy functional cells. These strategies are discussed in the context of specialized mesenchymal stromal cells with the potential to synergize with telocytes in stabilizing engrafted progenitor cells, thereby extending periods of healthy life. Information and concepts are summarized in a hypothetical approach to suppressing whole-organism senescence, with methods drawn from emerging understandings of ageing, gained from Cnidarians (jellyfish, corals and anemones) that undergo a unique form of cellular regeneration, potentially conferring open-ended lifespans.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Soler, Zachary M.
AU  - Yoo, Frederick
AU  - Schlosser, Rodney J.
AU  - Mulligan, Jennifer
AU  - Ramakrishnan, Vijay R.
AU  - Beswick, Daniel M.
AU  - Alt, Jeremiah A.
AU  - Mattos, Jose L.
AU  - Payne, Spencer C.
AU  - Storck, Kristina A.
AU  - Smith, Timothy L.
TI  - Correlation of mucus inflammatory proteins and olfaction in chronic rhinosinusitis
JO  - International Forum of Allergy & Rhinology
JA  - Int Forum Allergy Rhinol.
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/alr.22499
DO  - doi:10.1002/alr.22499
KW  - chronic rhinosinustis
KW  - olfactory disorders
KW  - olfaction
AB  - Background Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is one of the most common causes of olfactory loss, but the pathophysiology underlying olfactory dysfunction in CRS has not been fully elucidated. Previous studies found correlations between olfactory cleft (OC) inflammatory cytokines/chemokines and olfaction in CRS. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between OC mucus inflammatory proteins and olfaction in a multi-institutional cohort. Methods Adults with CRS were prospectively recruited. Demographics, comorbidities, olfactory assessment (Sniffin? Sticks), computed tomography (CT), and OC mucus for protein analysis were collected. Statistical analysis was performed to determine associations between olfactory function, OC mucus protein concentrations, and CT opacification. Results Sixty-two patients were enrolled in the study, with an average age of 48.2 (standard deviation, 16.2) years, and 56.5% were female and 59.7% were classified as CRS with nasal polyps (CRSwNP). Ten of 26 OC mucus proteins were significantly correlated with threshold, discrimination, and identification (TDI) scores and OC opacification. Subgroup analysis by polyp status revealed that, within the CRSwNP group, C-C motif ligand 2 (CCL2), interleukin-5 (IL-5), IL-6, IL-13, IL-10, IL-9, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), CCL5, and CCL11 were significantly correlated with olfaction. For CRS without nasal polyps (CRSsNP), only C-X-C ligand 5 (CXCL5) showed a correlation. In CRSwNP, IL-6, IL-10, vascular endothelial growth factor-A, and immunoglobulin E (IgE) correlated with OC opacification, whereas, in CRSsNP, only CXCL5 showed a correlation. OC mucus proteins and Lund-Mackay score correlated only in the CRSsNP group (CXCL5, IL-5, IL-13, IgE). Conclusion Several OC mucus proteins have been found to correlate with olfactory function and OC opacification. The profile of OC mucus proteins differs between CRSsNP and CRSwNP subgroups, suggesting different mechanisms between groups, but further study is required.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Haas, Magali
AU  - Stephenson, Diane
AU  - Romero, Klaus
AU  - Gordon, Mark Forrest
AU  - Zach, Neta
AU  - Geerts, Hugo
AU  - Brain Health Modeling Initiative (BHMI)
TI  - Big data to smart data in Alzheimer's disease: Real-world examples of advanced modeling and simulation
JO  - Alzheimer's & Dementia
JA  - Alzheimer's & Dementia
VL  - 12
IS  - 9
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jalz.2016.05.005
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.jalz.2016.05.005
SP  - 1022
EP  - 1030
KW  - Brain disorders
KW  - Alzheimer's dementia
KW  - Crowdsourcing
KW  - Private-public partnership
KW  - Quantitative systems pharmacology
KW  - Regulatory
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Many disease-modifying clinical development programs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have failed to date, and development of new and advanced preclinical models that generate actionable knowledge is desperately needed. This review reports on computer-based modeling and simulation approach as a powerful tool in AD research. Statistical data-analysis techniques can identify associations between certain data and phenotypes, such as diagnosis or disease progression. Other approaches integrate domain expertise in a formalized mathematical way to understand how specific components of pathology integrate into complex brain networks. Private-public partnerships focused on data sharing, causal inference and pathway-based analysis, crowdsourcing, and mechanism-based quantitative systems modeling represent successful real-world modeling examples with substantial impact on CNS diseases. Similar to other disease indications, successful real-world examples of advanced simulation can generate actionable support of drug discovery and development in AD, illustrating the value that can be generated for different stakeholders.
ER  - 
