
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kjellstrand, C.M.
AU  - Odar-Cederlof, I.
AU  - Ing, T.S.
AU  - Blagg, C.R.
TI  - Studies of phosphate dynamics during hemodialysis
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121by.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121by.x
SP  - 98
EP  - 98
PY  - 2005
AB  - Regulation of phosphate (PO4) in hemodialysis patients is very difficult and ideal levels are rarely maintained. A high removal and a normal phosphate level is important, as high and low levels are both associated with morbidity and a very high mortality. We studied phosphate dynamics and its relation to other small ?uremic? molecules in 48 patients by measuring pre- and postdialysis levels and all removed phosphate, urea and creatinine (creat) in all dialysate during 455 dialyses done at different frequencies (freq): 3.7?±?1.2, range 3?6 treatments per week and durations of dialysis (t): mean: 196?±?95, range 80?560?min and with high (HF) and low flux membranes. Kt/V-PO4, Kt/V-urea and Kt/V-creat, volumes (Vr) for all solutes and their relationships to frequency and duration of dialysis, urea clearance and predialysis phosphate were calculated. Factor/solute: PO4 Urea-N Creatinine Predialysis mg/dl 5.7?±?1.9 73?±?24 12?±?3 Postdialysis mg/dl 3.0?±?1.0 33?±?15 6?±?2 100???Vr/BW 63?±?78 58?±?24 41?±?15 Kt/V 1.01?±?0.66 1.04?±?0.32 0.97?±?0.26 Weekly stdKt/V 1.75?±?0.81 2.12?±?0.68 1.96?±?0.71 Removed gm/week 3.1?±?1.3 56?±?23 6.2?±?2.5 Vr?=?removed solute?÷?(predialysis minus postdialysis concentration.); BW?=?body weight. Uf?=?ultrafiltration. Results: Vr as a percentage of BW for PO4 was dependent on predialysis PO4 and rose steeply as predialysis PO4 decreased: Vr% BW?=?212???88???ln (predialysis PO4), (r?=?0.39, p?<?0.0001). There was no such relationship for Vr for urea or creatinine and no relation between urea and PO4 Vr, (r?=?0.07, p?=?0.141). In stepwise multiple regression analysis: Mg PO4 removed per week?=?t???6.5?+?freq???387?+?Uf???140?+?pre-PO4???273?+?PO4 stdKt/V???343???HF???375???1824, (r?=?0.73, p?<?0.0001). Blood flow(QB) and dialysate flow (QD), urea weekly stdKt/V were not significant variables in the model. Pre-dialysis PO4?=?6.8???Hrs/week???0.07???QB???0.003?+?Uf??? 0.26. QD, membrane type or dialyses/week did not enter the model. Only patients dialyzing>28 hrs/week could stop phosphate binders within 3 weeks. Conclusions:?Phosphate shows a highly variable dynamic during dialysis. Apparently, the body maintains extracellular PO4 concentration by releasing PO4 from unknown compartments when the blood concentration of PO4 decreases. Vr for phosphate thus varies not only from patient to patient but also in a patient, depending on blood concentration of PO4. Kt/V for urea and creatinine are inaccurate in describing PO4 removal. To remove PO4 efficiently it is most important to use long and daily dialysis. QB, QD and membrane type are relatively unimportant in phosphate removal.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 7th International Symposium on Enabling Technologies for Life Sciences (ETP)
JO  - Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry
JA  - Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom.
VL  - 27
IS  - 22
SN  - 0951-4198
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rcm.6724
DO  - doi:10.1002/rcm.6724
SP  - 2570
EP  - 2580
PY  - 2013
AB  - The seventh in the series of ETP Symposia (see Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 2012, 26, 1515?1518 for a description and report on the 6th Symposium) was held at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, Toronto, Canada, on 30 April to 1 May, 2013, and was chaired by Professor Daniel Figeys, Ottawa Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa. The purpose of these symposia is to convene meetings of scientists and engineers from universities, government laboratories, industry and manufacturers of scientific instrumentation, to discuss novel technologies and methodologies applicable to research in molecular biology. The speakers and the Abstracts of their presentations are listed alphabetically below. The program illustrates some significant changes from earlier versions (www.etpsymposium.org) that were devoted almost entirely to proteomics (the 'P' in 'ETP'). In addition to new techniques and applications related to that area, this symposium featured work related to nucleic acid characterization, biomaterials discovery, water disinfection byproducts, and metabolomics, as well as more fundamental developments in mass spectrometry (ionization techniques and quadrupole theory) and sample preparation. The symposium is now more truly international, with speakers from Canada, USA, Europe and China. It is hoped that the wide variety of topics and backgrounds of participants, together with the highly informal setting, will help promote cross-fertilization of ideas and unforeseen collaborations. Perdita E. Barran, Department of Chemistry, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK Resolution of solution structures in the absence of solvent (Invited Talk) Gentle application of nano-electrospray to proteins buffered in solution to an appropriate pH allows us to use mass spectrometry to interrogate their solution conformations. This can be achieved directly with ion mobility mass spectrometry where we measure the rotationally averaged temperature dependent collision cross section of mass separated ions, or more indirectly with the use of dissociation methods. Data obtained from both methods provides insight to the structure and stability of the protein, and also detail on its interactions, especially when combined with atomistically resolved data from crystallography and/or computational approaches. Data were presented from two systems, the first was a peptide level model of the interaction between the transcription factor c-MYC and its partner MAX; the second was a detailed structural evaluation of the metamorphic protein Lymphotactin. Ronald Beavis, Beavis Informatics Ltd, Winnipeg, Canada False negatives in proteomics (Invited Talk) Proteomics experiments using tandem mass spectrometry to identify peptides and proteins are prone to various types of false negative identifications that can affect the utility of the information generated from the experiments, as well as their reproducibility. This talk discussed the classification of the most common types of false negatives as well as how they can be detected, remedied or avoided. John D. Brennan, Blake J. Helka and Elna D. Luckham, Department of Chemistry, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada Imaging MALDI MS/MS of microarrays as a platform for high throughput biomaterials discovery (Invited Talk) This presentation highlighted recent work within the Biointerfaces Institute at McMaster University in the area of high throughput screening of biomaterials, with particular emphasis on the use of imaging MALDI for characterization of biomaterial microarrays. Using robotic handling systems and a combination of contact and noncontact microarray printing, we are able to produce several thousand biomaterials per day with a wide range of chemical compositions. Using sol?gel based materials as an example, the presentation showed the workflow utilized to develop new bioactive sol?gel materials for biosensing and small molecule screening applications. This includes methods to produce several thousand materials very rapidly, tools for rapid screening to identify ' hits' that show a desired property (high biological activity, low non-specific binding, etc.), and further detailed material analysis using a range of imaging methods based on fluorescence, XPS, MALDI-MS/MS and SPR to fully characterize the properties of biologically active materials. In particular, this presentation emphasized the unique capabilities of MALDI-MS/MS for evaluating biomaterial properties and the interaction of materials with biological samples. Methods for cataloging, mining and analyzing large datasets within the Database of Biointerface Interactions were also discussed. Rui Chen, H. Zou and D. Figeys, Ontario Institute for Systems Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada Characterization of cell membrane N-glycosylation with integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction and LC/MS/MS Glycosylation of membrane proteins plays important roles in cellular behaviours such as cell-cell interaction, immunology recognition and cell signalling. Despite their importance the effective extraction of membrane protein, selective isolation of glycopeptides and mass spectrometric characterization of glycosylation are challenging current analytical techniques. In this study, a systematic approach was developed which combined an integrated hydrophilic interaction chromatography solid phase extraction (HILIC SPE) for simultaneous detergent removal and glycopeptides enrichment, and mass spectrometric identification of both protein N-glycosylation sites and site-specific glycan structure. The HILIC SPE condition was optimized to enable the use of high concentration of strong detergents, such as SDS and Triton X-100, to dissolve highly hydrophobic membrane proteins, thus increasing the yield of membrane protein extraction. We illustrated the performance of this approach for the study of membrane protein glycosylation from human embryonic kidney cell lines (HEK 293T). 200 µg total protein digest was processed using this approach, leading to the identification of 813 N-glycosylation sites from 568 proteins within two experimental replicates. Furthermore, 177 glycopeptides representing 82 N-glycosides with both glycan composition and peptide sequence were identified by high energy collision dissociation. Andrew Crowell, A. Doucette and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada. Disposable two-stage spin cartridges for protein purification in a top-down proteomics workflow Proper proteome analysis by mass spectrometry depends on upstream sample manipulations, including protein concentration and purification. Cleanup strategies typically rely on chromatography, not only for the relative high recovery and purification efficiency, but also for ease of use through automation. Unfortunately, with chromatographic approaches sample loss is an expected occurrence, especially for high molecular weight and/or hydrophobic (membrane) proteins. By contrast, organic solvent-assisted protein precipitation is extremely effective at protein purification with minimal sample loss. Quantitative protein recovery is possible, though it is highly dependent on the pipetting skills of the individual. It is desired to create a robust protein precipitation protocol by automating the process, thereby maximizing recovery and purity on a high throughput scale. This presentation introduces a disposable two-stage centrifugal cartridge, tailored to automate the precipitation process. The ProTrap XG comprises an upper filtration cartridge together with a removable reversed phase cartridge, attaching at its base. Protein samples are mixed with organic solvents in the upper filter chamber, which induces precipitation of proteins. The pellet is retained by the filter, while contaminants in the supernatant are discarded to waste through a brief spin in a desktop centrifuge. Multiple devices can be used simultaneously, improving throughput while maintaining consistency between samples. Following precipitation, protein pellets are re-solubilized and subject to final purification through the reverse phase cartridge which is re-attached to the base of the filter. The effectiveness of the ProTrap XG for recovery and purification of intact proteins in a top-down proteomics workflow was discussed. Alan Doucette, A. Crowell and S. Rudolph, Department of Chemistry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada Automated SDS removal, tryptic digestion and sample cleanup in a disposable two-stage spin cartridge Prior to MS analysis, bottom up proteomics relies on a significant number of sample manipulations including protein purification and preconcentration, fractionation, digestion, and subsequent cleanup. Each of these steps comes with a risk of loss of analyte and adds to the complexity of the proteomics workflow. The GELFrEE fractionation system is a mass-based electrophoretic platform which relies on an SDS-containing sample buffer to isolate protein fractions in solution. Our group has recommended the use of solvent-induced protein precipitation (acetone or chloroform/methanol/water) to eliminate the SDS ahead of LC/MS analysis. However, protein precipitation is a particularly tedious and highly variable technique for the recoverery of proteins in high yield. Subsequent resolubilization of the protein pellet is also challenging, and further jeopardizes the success of MS characterization. To facilitate protein precipitation we have developed a two-stage filtration and chromatographic extraction cartridge designed to work in a conventional benchtop centrifuge. The device automates the recovery of proteins, ensuring uniform purification on a high throughput scale. Protein samples are precipitated in an upper chamber, with residual contaminants (including SDS) flushed through the bottom filter. At this point the base filter is capped, trapping proteins in the upper vial for subsequent resolubilization. A combination of urea and trypsin ensures complete digestion of the pellet. The peptides are then subject to reversed phase purification; here we link a chromatographic cartridge to the base of the filter chamber. Key figures of merit of the device, including the purity of SDS removal, protein recovery, digestion efficiency and peptide recovery, were demonstrated through standard and complex proteome mixtures. Don Douglas1, C. Gao1, K. Kim1, H. Qiao2 and N. Konenkov3 1Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 2Ionics Mass Spectrometry Group, Bolton, ON, Canada 3Physical and Mathematical Department, Ryazan State University, Ryazan, Russia Space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps with mass selective axial ejection (Invited Talk) Experiments and ion trajectory calculations have been used to better understand and to reduce space charge effects in linear quadrupole ion traps operated with axial ejection. If too many ions are stored in a linear trap their mutual repulsion counteracts the trapping forces and the ion oscillation frequencies decrease. Consequently higher trapping radio frequency voltages are required to bring ions into resonance for ejection, and ions appear at higher apparent masses in a spectrum. At the same time the mass resolution decreases. For the experiments of interest here the mass shifts are about 1 at m/z 609, and the electric field from space charge is a small perturbation to the trapping field. Experiments show that a proper choice of operating conditions can reduce but not eliminate mass shifts. Trajectory calculations of ion motion with various models of the ion cloud provide additional insight, and show that the space charge field is nonlinear and that therefore the ion oscillation frequency depends on oscillation amplitude. Anything that expands the ion cloud produces lower electric fields from space charge, and hence lowers mass shifts. Experiments in progress show that using broadband excitation, dipole dc, or two-frequency excitation to expand the ion cloud gives modest reductions in mass shifts and improvements in resolution. Norman Dovichi, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana, USA Capillary electrophoresis for high throughput proteomics (Keynote Lecture) Most proteomics studies employ LC/ESI-MS/MS analysis of peptides. We are investigating capillary electrophoresis (CE)/ESI-MS/MS as an alternative technology for bottom-up proteomics. We first developed a rugged and sensitive CE/ESI interface based on electrokinetically pumped sheath-flow.[1] This interface operates in the nanospray domain, produces low-attomole detection limits for CE separation of peptides, and offers great flexibility in separation buffer conditions.[1,2] We then analyzed the secreted protein fraction of M. marinum.[3] We pre-fractionated the secretome to produce simpler samples that were better suited to the separation performance of capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE). The results of the analysis of 12 fractions were compared with conventional UPLC analysis of the unfractionated sample. CZE produced slightly more protein identifications in a slightly shorter time period than UPLC. 140 protein groups were identified by CZE/ESI-MS/MS in three hours from this sample. We have recently improved the system. In the single-shot analysis of the E coli proteome, we identified >1,300 peptides and >300 protein groups in a 50-min CZE separation.[4] We have employed this separation system to analyze seven fractions from the E. coli proteome.[5] This system produced 23,706 peptide spectra matches, 4,902 peptide IDs, and 871 protein group IDs in 350 min analysis time. In an alternative separations scheme, we employed capillary isoelectric focusing for the analysis of host-cell proteins in commercial biopharma products; this system identified 37 host cell proteins in a total sample preparation time of 4 hours.[6] [1] Wojcik et al. Rapid Communun. Mass Spectrom. 2010, 24, 2554. [2] Wojcik et al. Talanta 2012, 88, 324. [3] Li et al. Anal. Chem. 2012, 84, 1616. [4] Zhu et al. Anal. Chem. 2013, 85, 2569. [5] Yan et al. In revision [6] Zhu et al. Talanta 2012, 98, 253. Ann M. English, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada Platform development to monitor age- and oxidant-related protein post-translational modifications: The case of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (Invited Talk) Non-enzymatic protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) increase with age and are frequently associated with age-dependent diseases. For example, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) aggregation has been reported in patients with late onset neurodegenerative diseases such as sporadic or familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's. Non-enzymatic PTMs in CuZnSOD are linked to its aggregation and hence to the development of ALS and Alzheimer's. Yeast is a widely used model of cellular and organismal aging that can be readily exploited in platforms to monitor age-related PTMs in a cellular environment. Furthermore, yeast and human CuZnSODs share high sequence homology but, since yeast ages much faster, we are exploring age-related PTMs in the yeast enzyme. By gel filtration of cell lysates we isolated a high-mass inactive form of CuZnSOD, and found by FT-MS that it is oxidized at cysteine 146 (C146) to the sulfonic acid. Importantly, C146 is also found in the sulfonic acid form in CuZnSOD isolated from the brains of Alzheimer's patients[1] and the C146R mutation has been reported in familial ALS.[2] Notably, C146 forms a C146-C55 disulfide bridge that is critical in stabilizing the native CuZnSOD homodimer. In high-mass CuZnSOD, we additionally observe oxidation of histidine 71 (H71) and H120, which ligate the active-site zinc and catalytic copper, respectively. We hypothesize that age-induced oxidation of C146, H71, and H120 contributes to the development of ALS as well as Alzheimer's by releasing the redox-active catalytic copper, which would probably increase oxidative stress and CuZnSOD aggregation. By monitoring the GFP (green fluorescent protein) fluorescence of CuZnSOD-GFP from an isogenic yeast strain expressing this fusion protein, we noted that the cellular content of high-mass CuZnSOD-GFP increases ~10-fold from day 3 to day 7. We are currently characterizing CuZnSOD and CuZnSOD-GFP from yeast cells over several weeks to establish if aggregated CuZnSOD continues to accumulate in old cells. CuZnSOD activity also is known to be inhibited by inflammatory processes in the airway epithelium, and C146 oxidation was reported in CuZnSOD purified from the erythrocytes of asthmatic patients.[3] To mimic the inflammatory state of asthma we are examining modification of CuZnSOD after challenging yeast cells with H2O2. Our highly sensitive LC/MS platform that tracks protein modification as yeast ages is providing in-depth information at the molecular level that is critical towards understanding the functional significance of PTMs in the cellular context. [1] Choi et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005, 280, 11648. [2] Andersen et al. Amyotroph. Lateral Scler. Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2003, 4, 62. [3] Ghosh et al. Antioxid Redox Signal 2012. DOI: 10.1089/ars.2012.4566. Daniele Fabris, The RNA Institute, State University of New York, The University at Albany, Albany, NY, USA MS-based strategies for the elucidation of nucleic acid?ligand interactions (Invited Talk) Ribozymes and riboswitches have keenly demonstrated that the function of nucleic acids is not always linked to the genetic information coded in their sequence, but can also depend on their 3D structure and ability to interact with a variety of species present in the cell. Owing to the versatility afforded by mass spectrometry (MS) in RNA analysis this platform is rapidly assuming a prominent role in the investigation of structure-function relationships, which is realized by supporting the full characterization of natural and man-made RNAs as well as the elucidation of specific interactions with cognate nucleic acids, proteins, metals, and small molecule ligands. The talk illustrated strategies for accessing functional information for nucleic acid complexes and discussed possible hurdles and experimental pitfalls. Examples were provided in which MS-based techniques are employed to characterize relevant interactions that could represent new therapeutic targets. Other examples illustrated approaches for elucidating the effects of metals and common nucleic acid ligands on such interactions. The experimental design necessary to assess the strength of binding/inhibition in either comparative or absolute fashion was also discussed. The potential afforded by ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) techniques was evaluated in the investigation of possible conformational effects associated with ligand binding. Owing to the extremely low sample consumption and high speed of analysis, these capabilities will be expected to greatly increase the utilization of MS-based approaches in drug discovery and therapeutics development based on specific nucleic acid interactions. Bella Groisman, J. Petschnigg and I. Stagljar, Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada A novel mammalian split-ubiquitin proteomics approach as a tool for functional investigation of signaling pathways in human cells The membrane yeast two-hybrid system (MYTH) is a robust technique for the identification of protein partners of integral membrane proteins. However, its implementation for mammalian proteins is limited due to differences between mammalian and yeast cells. Here we present a novel split-ubiquitin-based mammalian membrane two-hybrid (MaMTH) technology that enables investigation of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in human cells. Briefly, the specific interaction between membrane 'bait' and 'prey' proteins, coupled to ubiquitin halves, allows reconstitution of functional ubiquitin. Subsequently, deubiquitinating enzymes cleave off the transcription factor coupled to the bait, thus activating reporter gene transcription. Using the MaMTH technology we successfully confirmed known PPIs of membrane proteins from various cellular compartments. Here we focus on the ErbB members of receptor tyrosine kinases, mainly on the EGFR wild type (WT) versus the oncogenic kinase-active L858R version ? dynamic interactomes and functional analysis. We demonstrate that MaMTH allows sensitive detection of phospho-dependent and drug-inhibited interactions. We show that EGFR WT recruits Shc1 adaptor in serum-dependent manner, while oncogenic L858R shows constitutively stimuli-independent binding. Furthermore, consistent with clinical data EGFR (L858R) interaction with Shc1 was efficiently inhibited by the EGFR small molecule inhibitor erlotinib (tarceva), while the secondary L858RT790M resistant mutant was not affected by the drug. In addition, we created a dynamic interactome of EGFR WT versus L858R with 200 predicted interactors, data which is of high importance for the cancer signaling scientific community. In summary, here we presented a novel powerful proteomics technology, which we are planning to develop as tool for high-throughput proteomic research as well as a drug screening platform. David Juncker, Department of Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montréal, Canada Antibody colocalization microarray (ACM): A scalable cross-reactivity free nano-ELISA platform for proteomics studies Quantification of proteins with high specificity in blood can be performed using sandwich immunossays (e.g. ELISA). Multiplex sandwich immunoassays (MSI) were developed to measure multiple proteins at once, but cross-reactivity among reagents is known to limit accuracy and reproducibility. Here we explain the origin of the cross-reactivity in MSI, experimentally show the consequences, and introduce a novel assay format called the antibody Colocalization Microarray (ACM) that eliminates it. In MSI a slide is patterned with an array of capture antibodies, incubated with a sample, followed by a mixture of detection antibodies. Here we analyze the combinatorial interactions between detection and capture antibodies and antigens, and find that it increases quadratically with the number of targets. In an array with 14 targets we found widespread cross-reactivity. To overcome the cross-reactivity we introduce the ACM where all detection antibodies are individually spotted with high accuracy onto their corresponding capture antibody spot. Each spot on the ACM replicates an ELISA but using only 1 nL of reagent, constituting a Nano-ELISA. An ACM with 50 targets was shown experimentally to overcome cross-reactivity and to rival the sensitivity of ELISA. The ACM was validated for biomarker studies by measuring proteins in the serum of breast cancer patients and controls, and a candidate biomarker panel was identified. It is currently being used to identify biomarkers for traumatic brain injury. As the number of targets on the ACM is increased easily, it may become a powerful tool for biomarker discovery and validation. John Klassen, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada New MS tools for the discovery and characterization of protein-carbohydrate interactions (Invited Talk) The direct electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) assay has emerged as a powerful tool for quantifying protein-ligand interactions in solution. The assay is based on the direct detection and quantification of free and ligand-bound protein ions by ESI-MS for solutions of known initial concentrations of protein and ligand. A brief overview of the ESI-MS assay was presented, along with recent methodological advances that overcome the major sources of error in the binding measurements. A high-throughput ESI-MS approach to library screening was also presented. The catch-and-release (CaR)-ESI-MS assay involves incubating a protein with a library of compounds in solution, detecting the protein-ligand complexes by ESI-MS, activating the complexes to release the ligand. The identities of ligands are determined from measured molecular weights and, if needed, the fragmentation spectra and ion mobility arrival time distributions. The CaR-ESI-MS assay allows for the sensitive, rapid (<1 min analysis time) and direct detection and quantification of specific interactions for libraries containing hundreds of compounds. An overview of the assay was presented followed by examples highlighting the application of the assay for the discovery of carbohydrate ligands for a variety of bacterial proteins. Finally, the extension of the CaR-ESI-MS assay for the discovery of host cell receptors was described. The assay involves direct ESI-MS analysis of aqueous solutions of soluble proteins and insoluble receptors, which are incorporated into nanodiscs. The application of this assay for the detection of interactions between bacterial toxins and glycosphingolipids was presented. X. Chris Le, H. Zhang, F. Li, B. Dever, X. Li, C. Wang, M. Wagner, Z. Wang and X.-F. Li, Departments of Chemistry and of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada DNA-mediated binding assays for nucleic acids and proteins (Invited Talk) The detection of nucleic acids and proteins is fundamental for studying their functions and for the development of molecular diagnostics. Determining these biomolecules in complex systems requires exquisite analytical specificity and sensitivity. To meet these requirements we have devoted much effort to affinity binding assays that incorporate target recognition, signal transduction, and in situ amplification. Here we focus on homogeneous binding assays, which are carried out in solution, without the need for separation, immobilization, or washing steps. Such homogeneous binding assays can be performed in a single tube/vial or in live cells. They are potentially applicable to point-of-care diagnostics. For example, a binding-induced DNA assembly enables ultrasensitive detection of molecular targets and construction of unique target-dependent nanoreactors. Two DNA motifs that are conjugated to specific affinity probes assemble preferentially only when a specific target triggers a binding event. The binding-induced assembly of the DNA motifs results in the formation of a highly stable hairpin structure, enabling effective differentiation of the target-specific assembly from the background. This strategy pushes the limit of the state-of-art dynamic DNA nanotechnology to include molecules beyond DNA. The ability to generate dynamic DNA assembly by non-DNA molecules opens up opportunities for diverse potential applications, ranging from the construction of protein-induced nanodevices to the in situ detection of proteins and studies of molecular interactions. XingFang Li, W. Wang, Y. Quian and J. M. Boyd, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. Mass spectrometry methods for characterization and determination of disinfection byproducts in tap water and swimming pools Protection of public health requires disinfection of drinking water and recreation pools to effectively prevent water-borne diseases. However, common disinfection treatments unavoidably generate byproducts resulting from reactions between natural organic matter in the source water and disinfectants. The majority (~70%) of disinfection byproducts (DBPs) in treated water remain unidentified. Potential adverse health effects observed in epidemiological studies drive analytical research to identify and determine what DBPs may contribute to these health risks. Here we present the separation of and mass spectrometry methods to characterize emerging DBPs of toxicological relevance, and investigate the occurrence of these DBPs in swimming pools. The research demonstrated that personal care products contributed to the formation of some emerging DBPs such as halobenzoquinones. Yueqiao Fu, Lily Mats, Graham T. T. Gibson and Richard Oleschuk, Department of Chemistry, Queens University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada Multi-nano ESI, in pursuit of enhanced robustness, stability and sensitivity (Invited Talk) Electrospray ionization (ESI) as a soft ionization technique has been critical to mass spectrometry for analyzing biological macromolecules. NanoESI, which is operated at lower flow rates (nL/min), exhibits both higher ionization efficiency and higher sensitivity since the smaller initial electrospray droplets from the emitter afford increased surface charge per analyte molecule. To improve sensitivity and signal without decreasing flow rate, multiple electrosprays have been generated from multiple emitters by splitting one larger flow into smaller flows in the nanoESI regime. Based upon theoretical prediction and experimental results, the measured spray current generated from an emitter producing multiple Taylor cones (Itotal) is enhanced relative to the spray current from a single emitter (Is) at the same overall flow rate by a factor of the square root of the number of emitters (n). We have developed a series of multi-channeled emitters based upon silica and polymer microstructured fibers (MSFs). Custom-designed MSFs having holes in a radial pattern were fabricated using a 'stack and draw' technique, allowing multiple electrosprays from a single fiber. Polymer nozzles have been included in the silica MSF design to enhance nanoESI performance. A layer of polymer is first formed on the inner wall of each of the MSF channels followed by etching with hydrofluoric acid to expose the nozzles. The protruding highly cross-linked divinylbenzene nozzles produce true multi-nanoESI over a wide range of flow rates and mobile phase compositions and are compatible with high-resolution liquid chromatographic separations. Anthony Pawson, Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Using synthetic biology to study protein signaling networks (Plenary Lecture) The proteins involved in the transmission of signals within cells are typically complex, in the sense that they often possess multiple interaction and/or catalytic domains, and are directly or indirectly connected to numerous distinct proteins and other biomolecules such as phospholipids. We have used a variety of synthetic biology and proteomics techniques to investigate the importance of the multiple protein- and lipid-binding domains of the Grb2 adaptor protein and its target, the Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor Sos1, in controlling a key cell fate decision in early mammalian embryogenesis, namely the differentiation of primitive endoderm tissue. We find that these domains act cooperatively as a coincidence detector to ensure that fibroblast growth factor-dependent signals are transmitted at the right time and in the right place to elicit the appropriate formation of primitive endoderm. Guy Poirier, J.-P. Gagné, J. D. Chapman and D. R. Goodlett, Department of Molecular Biology, Medical Biochemistry and Pathology, Laval University, Québec, PQ, Canada High accuracy mass spectrometry provides direct evidence for site-specific auto-ADP-ribosylation of PARP-1 Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is an abundant chromatin-associated protein involved in a variety of pathways such as DNA damage response (DDR), transcription regulation, cell cycle progression and apoptotic cell death. Upon DNA damage induction, DNA-dependent PARPs synthesize an anionic poly(ADP-ribose) (pADPr) polymer to which several proteins bind with the subsequent formation of pADPr-associated multiprotein complexes. PARP hydrolyzes NAD?+?in the formation of pADPr on nuclear proteins such as DNA repair enzymes, chromatin remodelers, histones, transcription factors and PARP-1 itself. The covalent attachment of pADPr to a substrate protein alters its physicochemical characteristics, which results in functional consequences on its biological activity. The exact nature of the ADP-ribose linkage catalyzed by PARP-1 has been the subject of controversy and debate. To date, it is still unclear which of the amino acid side chains are directly targeted by the ADP-ribose transferase activity of PARP-1. Radiolabeled NAD?+?has been a cornerstone in research for tracking and visualizing PARP-catalyzed post-translational protein modification in vitro, but the ability of the negatively charged pADPr to strongly interact with proteins in a non-covalent manner is a cause of confusion when interpreting experimental results. To truly begin to understand the exact nature of the poly(ADP-ribosly)ation reaction, there is a need for more conclusive mass spectrometry evidence of PARP-catalyzed protein modifications. Mapping of these modifications to specific amino acid residues on PARP-1 and other protein substrates of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reactions presents significant challenges due to the complex structural heterogeneity of pADPr polymers as well as a loss of amino acid sequencing information that occurs during several mass spectrometry peptide activation techniques commonly implemented for fragmentation. Here, we demonstrate a novel method for the identification of PARP-1 auto-poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation sites utilizing high mass accuracy mass spectrometry. By employing an enzymatically driven simplification of the pADPr modifications, we reduce the corresponding complexity of analyzing modified tryptic peptides at the level of the tandem mass spectrum, which in turn enables us to effectively localize exact sites of PARP-1-catalyzed poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. In conjunction with a phosphopeptide-like enrichment strategy that captures modified peptides, we are able to successfully locate numerous sites of PARP-1 automodification in a high-throughput proteomics screen suitable for universally available mass spectrometry and data analysis pipelines. Jeffrey Smith, K. Wasslen, S. Wood and J. Manthorpe, Department of Chemistry, Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi): Rapid on-column methylation of peptides and proteins to permit quantitative analysis using tandem mass spectrometry Trimethylation enhancement using diazomethane (TrEnDi) is an inexpensive and rapid on-column chemical derivatization technique to permit peptide methylation and quantitation. TrEnDi produces trimethylated primary amines that enhance and simplify label-free quantitation strategies via improved ionization through the formation of fixed quaternary ammonium ions. TrEnDi has been optimized on a microfluidic platform to successfully derivatize peptides from a protein digest with nearly 100% complete N-terminal methylation. Other amino acid side chains with pKa values of approximately 10.5 or less were also methylated. MS/MS analysis confirmed that N-termini trimethylated peptides fragmented to preferentially form the a2 ion, permitting a significant increase in sensitivity when scanning in the MRM mode. This allowed us to perform label-free MRM scanning of candidate peptides without prior knowledge of their fragmentation patterns. The trimethylated peptide N-termini were found to be very stable. However, hydrolysis of the newly formed methyl esters occurred over time. Hydrolysis was assisted using base hydrolysis in order to drive the derivatized peptides to homogeneity. To test the analytical sensitivity of derivatized peptides via MRM scanning, several low concentrations of the modified peptides were spiked into a series of more complex peptide solutions and the ability of the MRM method to obtain quantitative data was assessed. Our results have revealed that the trimethylated peptide N-termini produced strong MRM transitions and were identifiable at low concentrations, even in the presence of highly concentrated interferences. E. Bonneil1, F. Lamoliatte1,2, J. Saba4, O. Caron-Lizotte1 and Dr P. Thibault1,2,3, Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer1, and Departments of Chemistry2 and of Biochemistry3, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada, and Thermo Fisher Scientific4 Quantitative proteomics using FAIMS and isotopic labeling (Invited Talk) Isotopic labeling is a commonly used method in quantitative proteomics to profile changes in protein abundances across different cell conditions. Isotopic labeling can be performed using chemical reagents that target specific functional group on peptides (MS2 quantitation) or via metabolic labeling (stable isotope labeling of cell cultures, SILAC) where cells are cultured in media containing in either light or heavy isotopes of amino acids (MS quantitation). The predictable mass differences between peptides (or fragment ions) from two or more experimental conditions enable a direct quantification and provide precise functional information and temporal changes in the proteome. However, the dynamic range and precision of these quantitative measurements can be hampered by the increasing complexity of the mass spectra and the presence of co-eluting isobaric ions. In this context we evaluated the analytical potentials of high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) in large-scale quantitative proteomics experiments using stable isotope labeling on a LTQ-Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. The ability of FAIMS to separate multiply protonated compounds from singly charged background ions provided a unique advantage to extend the dynamic range of peptide detection while reducing the complexity of LC/MS peptide maps. FAIMS analyses performed on cell extracts derivatized with tandem mass tags (TMT)-6plex isotopic label reagent or grown under SILAC conditions provided improved quantitation and dynamic range compared with conventional nanoelectrospray. Quantitative proteomics analyses performed using FAIMS resulted in a reduction of mixed precursor ions and provided confident reporter ion measurements with increased peptide identification. Examples of application were presented for monitoring changes in the proteome of yeast and human cells. Ruijun Tian, Y. Shi, T. Hunter and T. Pawson, The Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada Exploring bi-directional signaling in pancreatic tumor microenvironment by quantitative proteomics Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is one of the most lethal human cancers with resistance to many chemotherapeutic drugs. This drug resistance effect is believed to be partly caused by stromal-cancer cells interaction in pancreatic tumor microenvironment. Cell-cell interactions are often mediated by protein molecules expressed by one cell that are recognized by specific receptors present on neighboring cells. This intercellular communication activates specific signaling pathways through the induction of dynamic post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation and by protein-protein interactions. Here, we present the development of unbiased quantitative proteomics approaches to characterize a dynamic secretome and critical intracellular signaling in a simulated pancreatic tumor microenviroment in culture. A number of secreted ligand/receptor pairs have been explored which have significant effects on cancer cells proliferation. Our work establishes a generally applicable strategy for studying stromal-cancer cells communication and provides valuable resources for systematically understanding dysfunctional signaling networks in tumor microenvironment in a context closer to physiological conditions than was previously possible. Sarah Trimpin, Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA Matrix assisted ionization without a laser, heat, or voltage: identification of peptides and proteins directly from tissue (Invited Talk) A few years ago we introduced an ionization method for use in mass spectrometry (MS), applicable to volatile and nonvolatile compounds, which uses laser ablation of a matrix/analyte mixture similar to atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) but which produces mass spectra nearly identical to electrospray ionization (ESI). This new technique called laserspray ionization (LSI) has advantages of speed of analysis, high spatial resolution for imaging, mass range extension, and improved fragmentation common with multiply charged ions. LSI using the proper matrix was also shown to be capable of imaging multiply charged ions using atmospheric pressure or vacuum MALDI sources. Crucial for the production of highly charged ions are desolvation conditions to remove matrix from charged matrix/analyte clusters. By using a matrix that readily sublimes, we have now extended matrix-assisted ionization by eliminating the need for a laser or even heat to initiate ionization. Ions are spontaneously formed from a solid matrix/analyte material when introduced to a vacuum MALDI source without need of a laser, or to a modified ESI source without use of voltage. This matrix assisted ionization vacuum (MAIV) method produces similar charge states and drift times of ions, as determined by ion mobility spectrometry-MS, to ESI. Compounds at least as large as bovine serum albumin (67 kDa) become converted into highly charged gas-phase ions when exposed in the MAIV matrix to vacuum conditions. Such a simple ionization method, requiring only the vacuum necessary for the proper functioning of the mass spectrometer, may prove useful for analysis of single cells and in clinical applications. A possible mechanism for ionization involving sublimation/evaporation and charge generation through the mechanism that produces triboluminescence was discussed. Dietrich Volmer, Institute of Bioanalytical Chemistry, Saarland University, Saarbrücken, Germany New methods for improved determination of metabolic markers using advanced analytical mass spectrometry techniques (Invited Talk) New developments in metabolomics and metabolic profiling techniques have led to the discovery of metabolic biomarkers indicative of physiological or pathological change, e.g. onset of disease or nutritional effects of a specific diet. Experimental approaches for discovering new biomarkers usually involve proteomics or metabolomics techniques that detect differences between sample sets rather than measuring specific compounds as performed in traditional hypothesis-driven research. Unfortunately, finding metabolites present in significantly different levels between sample sets is often complicated by experimental variables such as method reproducibility, types of tissue sampling technique, analytical sample preparation technique, ion suppression phenomena, person-to-person or animal-to-animal metabolic variations, isobaric or isomeric noise, etc. All these error sources, variations or artefacts can lead to false assignment of metabolites or biomarkers and random and systematic errors during quantification. This presentation focused on our research on metabolite profiling techniques and sources of analytical errors. It presented examples for applications such as quantitative analysis and fingerprinting of vitamin D metabolites, microcystin toxin biomarkers and lipids. In addition, novel technical solutions involving ?magnetic? media (fluids and beads), ion mobility spectrometry and chemical labeling techniques were highlighted in this presentation. Fangjun Wang1, H. Zou1, M. Ye1 and Daniel Figeys2 1Key Lab of Separation Science for Analytical Chemistry, National Chromatography R 2Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology, Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. Recent development of technologies and methods for proteome analysis (Invited Talk) Technologies and methods play a highly important role for proteome analysis. Recent developments of technologies and methods for proteome analyses in our labs were presented:Combined technologies and methods, such as multi-enzyme digestion, different enrichment methods, multi-dimensional LC separation and different types of mass spectrometers, for comprehensive glycoproteome and phosphoproteome analysis of human liver; the largest dataset of protein phosphorylation and glycosylation for human liver was achieved.Solid-phase based technology by integrating all of the digestion, enrichment, and deglycosylation together with LC/MS analysis, was developed for glycoproteome analysis; both the identification sensitivity and the throughput were improved greatly.A solid-phase based labeling approach, by integration of glycopeptides and phosphopeptides enrichment and stable isotope labeling on adsorbent beads, was developed for relative quantification of protein glycosylation and phosphorylation.Six-plex stable isotope labeling was achieved by a two-stage stable isotope labeling strategy of SILAC and dimethylation isotope labeling, which allows six different protein samples (six-plex) to be reliably labeled and simultaneously quantified at MS1 level. This six-plex isotope labeling strategy was applied to investigate the dynamics of protein turnover, and the 50% turnover times of 1365 proteins within HeLa cells were successfully obtained. Hailin Wang, S. Liu, B. Zhao, D. Zhang, C. Li, State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. Insights on Isotachophoresis Kinetics from Monitoring Non-uniform Motion of single DNA molecules (Invited Talk) Isotachophoresis (ITP) has wide applications in chemistry and life sciences due to its pre-concentration function. A simplified ITP system consists of a leading electrolyte (LE) and a terminating electrolyte (TE). For LE and TE to migrate at the same velocity (v), the respective E in each zone must adapt to their electrophoretic mobility (?) according to Eqn. (1): The LE zone with a high electrophoretic mobility will have a low E, and the TE zone with a low electrophoretic mobility will have a high E. Current literature commonly assumes that the adaption of E is fast and is not the rate-limiting step. However, actual adaption kinetics of ITP has not been studied yet. Moreover, it is not clear how electroosmotic flow affects the kinetics of ITP. By taking advantage of single molecule imaging, we for the first time examined the changes in electric field and the resulting non-uniform motion of single DNA molecules in capillary isotachophoresis. The individual DNA molecules passing the detection window are consecutively imaged in real time at 50-millisecond intervals. Since the migration velocity of DNA is directly proportional to the applied electric field strength (E), imaging the movement of DNA provides necessary information for understanding the distribution of E throughout the capillary. This approach allows us to gain insights into the kinetics of varying-field ITP and enables us to develop a strategy for focusing and detecting single DNA molecules and DNA damages. John Wilkins, Departments of Internal Medicine, Biochemistry and Medical Genetics, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada Linking protein composition and functionality in biology and medicine (Invited Talk) The repertoire and functional state of proteins expressed by an organism ultimately determine their phenotype. Thus, the inclusion of measures of protein activity is an essential step to developing valid models of biological systems in disease and health. While genomics and proteomics provide detailed information on potential and current protein composition, these approaches generally offer limited insight regarding protein functional states. However, many proteins possess catalytic activities that are stringently controlled by mechanisms that restrict substrate accessibility to the active site. This is the central premise of activity-based protein profiling. The use of enzyme activity as a predictor of organ function or health offers several advantages in the clinical environment. The assays can be highly specific because of the structural features of their substrates. The high substrate turnover numbers of enzymes provides an amplification mechanism that increases assay sensitivity. Activity-based profiling offers a means of probing clinical samples for novel enzymatic activities as new reporters. Some of our experiences in the application of this approach profiling assessing renal function were presented. The identification of a protein, even an active one, does not necessarily address the questions of ?What does the protein do?? and ?Why is it needed??. These questions can be further complicated by the observations that function(s) are often context specific. We have used integrated proteomic, activity based protein profiling and functional genomics approaches in an effort to examine lymphocyte migration, a process that is central to normal immune function. Derek Wilson, T. Rob, D. Golemi-Kotra and P. Kama-Gill, Department of Chemistry, York University, Toronto, Canada Microfluidics-enabled, sub-second hydrogen/deuterium exchange pulse labeling reveals allosteric 'hotspots' in enzymes Regulation of metabolic pathways is achieved by modulation of enzyme activity, commonly via direct interactions at the active site. However, a substantial number of enzymes are also sensitive to changes at locations well removed from the site of catalysis. These 'allosteric' effects are easily detected, but are exceedingly difficult to characterize because they are usually driven by subtle changes in conformation or dynamics. In this work we use a new microfluidic chip that incorporates a bottom-up workflow with sub-second H/D exchange pulse labeling to probe time-dependent structural and dynamic changes in the beta-lactamase enzyme TEM-1 upon inhibitor binding. Changes in deuterium uptake were noted from the first time-point after acylation, corresponding to both increases and decreases in labeling ('loosening' and 'tightening' of the structure, respectively). As the acyl-enzyme was allowed to age, time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were detected, indicating the presence of slow structural changes occurring up to 2 s after acylation. In general, peptides showing instantaneous changes in uptake were located near the active site, while peptides that exhibited time-dependent changes in deuterium uptake were located at the periphery of the enzyme. In the active site, patterns of increasing and decreasing rigidity explain the roles of Arg244 and Asn276 in the inhibitory mechanism. At the periphery, slow changes in uptake are observed specifically in allosteric 'hotspots' that include residues known from mutational analysis to play a role in TEM-1 catalytic efficiency. David Wishart, Departments of Biological Sciences and Computing Science, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Clearing the biomarker barrier: Moving biomarkers from the bench to the bedside (Invited Talk) One of the great promises of the 'omics' era was the delivery of a gene or a protein to diagnose every disease. Unfortunately this hasn't quite happened. While our understanding of the etiology of disease has improved tremendously our ability to diagnose or predict disease has not. This has a lot to do with our inability to translate biomarkers from the bench to the bedside. Indeed, after nearly 20 years of work and more than $5 billion in investment, there have been only a few microarray tests and, as yet, no protein-array or proteomic tests approved by the FDA for diseases diagnosis. On the other hand, dozens of metabolomic biomarkers have successfully made the transition from the lab to the clinic. Why? This presentation discussed some of the secrets to the success of metabolomics in clearing the 'biomarker barrier'. In particular, some key guidelines for designing, performing and reporting biomarkers in a biomarker study, as well as some advice with regard to the process of moving biomarkers from the laboratory to the clinic, were provided. Some examples of how quantitative metabolomics is being used to identify biomarkers for a wide range of diseases, and the status of my lab's efforts to try to move some these biomarkers into clinical testing, were also discussed. THE KEN STANDING AWARD LECTURE (Sponsored by the University of Manitoba) Lars Konermann, Departments of Chemistry and of Biochemistry, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada Electrospray mass spectrometry as a readout of protein structure and function Proteins are nanomachines that carry out countless tasks in every living organism. To perform these functions, the linear amino acid chain of each protein has to fold into a highly specific three-dimensional structure. On the other hand, misfolding and aggregation are associated with diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. X-ray crystallography remains the gold standard for obtaining high-resolution structural information. However, the data generated in this way do not properly reflect the highly dynamic nature of proteins, which is a key prerequisite for biological function. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) provides a number of avenues for exploring protein structure, function, folding, and dynamics. Our laboratory specializes in the use of hydrogen exchange and covalent labeling techniques. This presentation discussed time-resolved investigations that provide detailed insights into the mechanisms of protein folding. The area of membrane protein structure and function, and the use of ESI-MS for probing biological self-assembly processes, were also discussed. In addition, recent advances in understanding the physical processes that allow the formation of gaseous biomolecular ions during ESI were presented. THE BILL DAVIDSON GRADUATE STUDENT TRAVEL AWARD (Sponsored by ABSciex) Feng Li, Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dr X. Chris Le, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada Dynamic DNA assemblies mediated by binding-induced DNA strand displacement Dynamic DNA assemblies have shown promising potential to regulate cell activities, deliver therapeutic compounds, and amplify detection signals for molecular diagnostics and imaging. However, such applications of dynamic DNA assembly systems have been limited to nucleic acids and a few small molecules. It is challenging to construct dynamic DNA assemblies that are responsive to proteins. We have developed a binding-induced DNA strand displacement strategy that can convert protein binding to the release of a predesigned output DNA at room temperature with high conversion efficiency and low background. This strategy allows us to construct dynamic DNA assembly systems that are able to respond to specific protein binding, opening an opportunity to expand the existing dynamic DNA nanotechnology to proteins for diverse applications. We have applied this strategy to design a binding-induced DNA strand displacement beacon and a binding-induced DNA circuit, both of which are triggered by protein binding. We have demonstrated the detection of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and prostate specific antigen (PSA). Further applications could be in the area of point-of-care analysis of proteins that could be performed under ambient temperature and without requiring the use of enzymes for signal generation and/or amplification. POSTER PRESENTATIONS J. Anichina, A. Schreiber, R. Bonner and T. Sakuma High-resolution tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the interactions of oligonucleotides with selected river basin specific pollutants E. Forsberg and J. Brennan Bio-solid phase extraction and information dependent tandem mass spectrometry for the identification of enzyme inhibitors in complex mixtures H. Li, S. Bergeron, and D. Juncker Snap chip 2.0: Double microarray-to-microarray transfer for easy-to-use, high-density antibody colocalization microarrays P. Liuni and D. J. Wilson Investigating catalysis-linked dynamics in yeast alcohol dehydrogenase by measuring kinetic isotope effects using time-resolved ESI-MS with H/D exchange. P. S. Lo, V. Laforte, S. Bergeron, J. Marcoux and D. Juncker Using the antibody colocalization microarray to measure proteins in complex samples from severe traumatic brain injury patients Z. Ning, D. Seebun, B. Hawley, C.-K. Chiang and D. Figeys From cells to peptides: 'One-stop' integrated proteomic processing using Amphipols D.J. Orton, J.P. Rogers and A.A. Doucette A dual capillary nanospray interface for improved throughput in LC/MS A. Sardar iTRAQ coupled 2D-LC-MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis reveals proteome changes associated Leishmania donovani promastigote adaptation to oxidative and nitrosative stress A. M. Smith and J.D. Brennan Development of a multiplexed kinase assay via MALDI-MS/MS detection J. Song, X. Tang, L. Li, L.C. Palmer, D. Pinto and K. Chisholm OFFGEL peptide pre-fractionation is essential for proteomic approaches employing quantitative stable isotope dimethyl labeling and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in fruit proteomic research C. Stephan Pushing the frontier in ICP-MS applications: Counting and sizing nanoparticles using single particle ICP-MS D. Williams, S. Madler, L.V. DeSouza, A. Matta and K.W.M. Siu Intracellular signalling network expression profiling by LC/MS with a heavy isotope-labelled QconCAT internal standard Information about past and future symposia and conferences organized by ETP can be found at the website www.etpsymposium.org. Robert K. Boyd, Researcher Emeritus, National Research Council of Canada Chair, Science Advisory Committee, ETP
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kiriklidou, P.
AU  - Memmos, D.
AU  - Papadopoulou, D.
AU  - Mitsopoulos, E.
AU  - Sakellariou, G.
TI  - Comparative Study between Classic and Newer Methods for the Evaluation of Hemodialysis Adequacy
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 8
IS  - 1
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2004.0085p.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2004.0085p.x
SP  - 84
EP  - 84
PY  - 2004
AB  - Aim:? The comparative study of hemodialysis (HD) adequacy of Kt/V measurement between classic method (Daugirdas formula) and urea sensor monitor (online). Patients and methods:? 30 patients with end-stage renal failure undergoing dialysis were studied. A comparative evaluation of HD adequacy during the same session was done with two different methods: (1) blood samples were drawn in the beginning and in the end of HD session for the measurement of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and after measurement of HD adequacy by 3rd generation Daugirdas formula and (2) urea sensor monitor use for continuous HD adequacy measurement during HD session. Results:? There was statistically significant correlation of Kt/V Daugirdas with Kt/V online (r?=?0.8, p?<?0.001). Also there was statistically significant correlation between solute removal index (SRI), Kt/V Daugirdas (r?=?0.81, p?<?0.001) and Kt/V online (r?=?0.92, p?<?0.001). From nutrition indices that were measured, the protein catabolic rate (PCR) had marginal negative correlation with the two compared adequacy indices, Kt/V Daugirdas (r?=??0.24, p?<?0.03), and Kt/V online (r?=??0.17, p?<?0.03) although the nPCR (normalized PCR) had marginal positive correlation (r?=?0.35, p?<?0.05) (r?=?0.42, p?<?0.05). Conclusions:? The use of online urea sensor monitors contributes to the easy measurement of adequacy and nutrition indices and hence complicated mathematical formulas are not necessary. The results of these measurements are reliable and comparable with classic methods of HD adequacy evaluation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Irani, Katayun
AU  - Pomerantseva, Irina
AU  - Hart, Alison R.
AU  - Sundback, Cathryn A.
AU  - Neville, Craig M.
AU  - Vacanti, Joseph P.
TI  - Mechanical Dissociation of Swine Liver to Produce Organoid Units for Tissue Engineering and In Vitro Disease Modeling
JO  - Artificial Organs
VL  - 34
IS  - 1
SN  - 0160-564X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1525-1594.2009.00784.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1525-1594.2009.00784.x
SP  - 75
EP  - 78
KW  - Bioartificial liver
KW  - Liver slice
KW  - Liver-specific function
KW  - Organ culture techniques
KW  - Oxygen-supplemented flow culture
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract The complex intricate architecture of the liver is crucial to hepatic function. Standard protocols used for enzymatic digestion to isolate hepatocytes destroy tissue structure and result in significant loss of synthetic, metabolic, and detoxification processes. We describe a process using mechanical dissociation to generate hepatic organoids with preserved intrinsic tissue architecture from swine liver. Oxygen-supplemented perfusion culture better preserved organoid viability, morphology, serum protein synthesis, and urea production, compared with standard and oxygen-supplemented static culture. Hepatic organoids offer an alternative source for hepatic assist devices, engineered liver, disease modeling, and xenobiotic testing.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Özvatan, Tülay
AU  - Akalın, Halis
AU  - Sınırtaş, Melda
AU  - Ocakoğlu, Gökhan
AU  - Yılmaz, Emel
AU  - Heper, Yasemin
AU  - Kelebek, Nermin
AU  - İşçimen, Remzi
AU  - Kahveci, Ferda
TI  - Nosocomial Acinetobacter pneumonia: Treatment and prognostic factors in 356 cases
JO  - Respirology
JA  - Respirology
VL  - 21
IS  - 2
SN  - 1323-7799
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/resp.12698
DO  - doi:10.1111/resp.12698
SP  - 363
EP  - 369
KW  - Acinetobacter baumannii
KW  - colistin
KW  - nosocomial pneumonia
KW  - pneumonia
KW  - ventilator-associated pneumonia
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Background and objective Acinetobacter baumannii and A. baumannii/calcoaceticus complex are commonly encountered pathogens in nosocomial infections. This study aimed to evaluate the treatment and prognostic risk factors in nosocomial pneumonia caused by these microorganisms. Methods The study was conducted retrospectively in Uludag University Hospital and included 356 adult non-neutropenic patients with nosocomial pneumonia. Results Of the subjects, 94.9% (n?=?338) had ventilator-associated pneumonia. The clinical response rate was 57.2%, the 14-day mortality 39.6% and the 30-day mortality 53.1%. The significant independent risk factors for the 30-day mortality were severe sepsis (OR, 2.60; 95% CI: 1.49?4.56; P?=?0.001), septic shock (OR, 6.12; 95% CI: 2.75?13.64; P?<?0.001), APACHE II score?≥?20 (OR, 2.12; 95% CI: 1.28?3.50; P?=?0.003) and empiric monotherapy (OR, 1.63; 95% CI: 1.00?2.64; P?=?0.048). Multi-trauma (OR, 2.50; 95% CI: 1.11?5.68; P?=?0.028) was found to be a protective factor. In patients with a clinical pulmonary infection score (CPIS)?>?6 on the third day of treatment, both the 14- and 30-day mortality rates were high (P?<?0.001, P?<?0.001). Also, the 14- and 30-day mortality rates were significantly higher in the patients treated with empiric monotherapy compared with combination therapy (48/93 (51.6%)?46/123 (37.4%), P?=?0.037 and 62/93 (66.7%)?65/123 (52.8%), P?=?0.041, respectively) in pneumonia caused by imipenem-resistant strains. Conclusion Mortality rates were high in pneumonia caused by imipenem-resistant A. baumannii or A. baumannii/calcoaceticus complex. In the units with a high level of carbapenem resistance, antibiotic combinations should be considered for empiric therapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stern, Theodor
C7  - 49034
TI  - Side-reactions in diisocyanate-derived bulk polyurea synthesis
JO  - Journal of Applied Polymer Science
JA  - J Appl Polym Sci
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 0021-8995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/app.49034
DO  - doi:10.1002/app.49034
SP  - 49034
KW  - copolymers
KW  - crosslinking
KW  - spectroscopy
KW  - synthesis and processing techniques
KW  - thermosets
AB  - Abstract Polyureas comprise a versatile family of polymers, widely applied mainly due to their outstanding mechanical properties. Nevertheless, due to the inherently very high reactivity of the isocyanate groups, polyurea synthesis is accompanied by crosslinking side-reactions, strongly affecting the polymers properties, and possible applications. The present research focused on the direct investigation and diagnostic determination in solid state, of the possible chemical structures formation in bulk polyurea synthesis, using a combination of Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and solid-state 13C Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analysis. Syntheses of polyureas were hereby designed to yield a very high density of the newly formed chemical structures and, consequently obtaining strong and accurate diagnostic analytical signals. The results of the present research, conclusively revealed that even in so-designed linear polyureas, there is a predominant occurrence of biuret formation and a significantly lower urea group occurrence. Polyureas of a 2:1 excess of diisocyanate:diamine, exhibited an almost exclusive biuret content. Synthesis of a new branched and crosslinked polymer using a monoamine and diisocyanate, provided strong evidence of a preferential further side-reaction of isocyanate groups with formed biurets, rather than with the very abundantly remaining urea groups to form new biurets. An energetically-favorable mechanism for the further side-reaction of formed biurets is hereby suggested. Solid-state 13C NMR analysis results were highly consistent with the FTIR results.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Saito, A.
AU  - Aung, T.
AU  - Terashima, M.
AU  - Kakuta, T.
TI  - Long-Term Transport Study of Bioartificial Tubule Devices in the Development of a Bioartificial Kidney
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 8
IS  - 1
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2004.0085bc.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2004.0085bc.x
SP  - 99
EP  - 99
PY  - 2004
AB  - Introduction:? A bioartificial kidney, which consists of a continuous hemofilter and a bioartificial tubule device using proximal tubular epithelial cells (LLC-PK1), is desired to develop for preventing long-term complications in hemodialysis patients. A bioartificial tubule device should function for a long duration in terms of the simplicity and the economy. Continuous hemofiltration with 10?L/day of filtrate could maintain plasma urea, creatinine and ?2-microglobulin in patients at low levels compared to those in standard hemodialysis patients. Methods:? 6 bioartificial tubule devices, in which LLC-PK1 cells were grown on the inner surfaces of hollow fiber capillaries (membrane area: 0.4?m2, 1600 fibers), were used to evaluate the transport ability of H2O, glucose and Na+, and leak rates of urea and creatinine for 2 weeks when the medium containing 50?mg/dL of urea and 5.0?mg/dL of creatinine was perfused inside of the cell-attached membranes and another medium containing 2.5?g/dL of albumin was perfused outside of the membranes. Scanning electron micrograph of cross-sectional findings of the hollow fibers was taken at 6, 10, and 14 days after formation of confluence. Results:? By conversion into 1?m2 of membrane area, transport of H2O, glucose, and Na+ was 6266?± 995?mL/day, 22832?±?7240 mg/day, and 941.3?±?180 mEq/day, respectively at 6 days after confluence. Leak rates of urea and creatinine across the cell-attached membranes were 22?±?6.1% and 19.2?±?4.9 with albumin addition, whereas 13.1?±?1.9% and 12.2?±?1.6 without albumin addition. Transport capacity of these components and the leak rates had continued for 10?13 days, and decreased thereafter because of the formation of the multilayers. Bioartificial tubule devices with membrane area 1.0?m2 can reach the targeted amounts of H2O, glucose, and Na+ transports when 6?L of 10?L/day of hemofiltrate has to be regenerated, substituting 4?L with meal and drinks.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Frénais, R.
AU  - Rosenberg, D.
AU  - Burgaud, S.
AU  - Horspool, L. J. I.
TI  - Clinical efficacy and safety of a once-daily formulation of carbimazole in cats with hyperthyroidism
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 50
IS  - 10
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00772.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00772.x
SP  - 510
EP  - 515
PY  - 2009
AB  - Objective: Evaluation of efficacy and safety of a novel controlled-release formulation of carbimazole in feline hyperthyroidism. Methods: A multicentre, self-controlled study in 44 client-owned cats with history and clinical signs of hyperthyroidism, and total thyroxine concentration greater than or equal to 50 nmol/l. Treatment was started at 15 mg once daily, response assessed after 10 days, and 3, 5, 8, 26 and 53 weeks and dose adjusted as required. Results: The median dose of carbimazole was 10 mg (range 10 to 15 mg) and 15 mg (5 to 25 mg) once daily after 3 and 53 weeks, respectively. Median total thyroxine concentration dropped significantly from 118 nmol/l (50 to 320 nmol/l) at presentation to 33 nmol/l (n=40) after 10 days, 31 nmol/l (n=34) at 3 weeks and 21 nmol/l (n=18) at 53 weeks. Clinical signs improved or resolved in almost all cats within three weeks after starting treatment. Twenty-one adverse reactions possibly (20) or probably (1) related to treatment were reported. During treatment, increased blood urea nitrogen concentration was observed in 25 per cent of the cats, eosinophilia in 20 per cent and lymphopenia in 16 per cent, while liver enzymes tended to improve. Clinical Significance: Once daily administration of controlled-release carbimazole tablets was effective and had expected tolerance in hyperthyroid cats during short- and long-term treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gharehdaghi, Jaber
AU  - Takalloo-Bakhtiari, Asieh
AU  - Hassanian-Moghaddam, Hossein
AU  - Zamani, Nasim
AU  - Hedayatshode, Mohammad-Javad
TI  - Suspected Methadone Toxicity: from Hospital to Autopsy Bed
JO  - Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology
JA  - Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol
VL  - 121
IS  - 6
SN  - 1742-7835
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bcpt.12831
DO  - doi:10.1111/bcpt.12831
SP  - 531
EP  - 539
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract High mortality rates have been reported for methadone in both adults and children. We aimed to determine the pattern of toxicity, possible underlying diseases and treatment challenges in patients referred to our centre with early diagnosis of methadone toxicity and who later died. Medical files of all methadone-poisoned patients who had been admitted to a referral centre of toxicology between March 2011 and March 2016, died during the hospital stay and sent for autopsy to Legal Medicine Organization were retrospectively evaluated. In a total of 94 patients, autopsy findings and laboratory evaluations showed that cause of death was pure methadone toxicity in 57 (60.6%). Other causes of death were ischaemic heart disease in ten, co-ingestions (toxicities including methadone) in eight, brain haemorrhage, multi-organ failure and pneumosepsis (each in four), meningitis/encephalitis in three and head trauma and other toxicities (other than methadone but including an opioid, each in two) patients. Time of cardiopulmonary arrest was significantly different between those with pure methadone toxicity and those who died due to other causes (p = 0.01). Patients who had died due to co-ingestions and other toxicities were younger (p = 0.029) and took more bolus doses of naloxone (p = 0.042). In methadone users, especially in older ages and those with trivial response to naloxone administration, loss of consciousness should not be strictly attributed to methadone toxicity. In such patients, thorough evaluation for other possible causes of loss of consciousness is mandatory.
ER  - 

AU  - Tennent-Brown, Brett S.
AU  - Epstein, Kira L.
AU  - Ralston, Sarah L.
C7  - pp. 301-315
TI  - Nutrition
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118704783.ch23
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118704783.ch23
SP  - 301-315
KW  - Blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
KW  - Electrolyte abnormalities and dextrose solutions
KW  - Energy and protein requirements
KW  - Enteral feeding and parenteral nutrition
KW  - Hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia
KW  - Lipids and amino acids
KW  - Nutrition
KW  - Parenteral nutrition formulations
KW  - Total parenteral nutrition (TPN)
KW  - Vitamins and trace minerals
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Feeding the Postoperative Colic Patient Long-Term Nutritional Management of the Postcolic Patient References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zachariae, Claus
AU  - Hall, B
AU  - Cottin, M
AU  - Andersen, KE
AU  - Menné, T
TI  - FS04.1 Formaldehyde allergy – clinically relevant threshold reactions
JO  - Contact Dermatitis
VL  - 50
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309aj.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309aj.x
SP  - 136
EP  - 136
PY  - 2004
AB  - The objective of the study was to establish eliciting threshold concentrations of diazolidinyl urea (Germall II)? derived formaldehyde in formaldehyde and/or in diazolidinyl urea ? sensitive patients, using a leave-on face cream formulation in a repeated open application test (ROAT) applied to different anatomical regions. 150 patients with known formaldehyde allergy were reviewed for inclusion in the study. 108 patients were contacted and in 65 patients the formaldehyde sensitisation was reconfirmed by a patch test. Four groups of 10 formaldehyde allergic subjects were exposed to 0.05%, 0.15%, 0.3% and 0.6% diazolidinyl urea, corresponding to approximately 50, 100, 200 and 400?ppm free formaldehyde, respectively. Additional 10 individuals allergic to the formaldehyde donor ? diazolidinyl urea itself ? were exposed to 0.15% diazolidinylurea, corresponding to approximately 100?ppm free formaldehyde and 10 healthy non-allergic individuals were exposed to 0.6% of diazolidinylurea (approximately 400?ppm free formaldehyde). A ROAT was performed in a scheduled sequence: upper arm, neck and face. Contact allergy reactions were elicited in 39 out of 58 formaldehyde-sensitive and in 5 out of 7 diazolidinyl urea-sensitive individuals. Elicitation responses were dose- and anatomical region ? dependent. No reactions were observed at the lowest dose, suggesting that an elicitation threshold was attained in the study.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lehmann, Søren Vig
AU  - Hoeck, U
AU  - Breinholdt, J
AU  - Olsen, CE
TI  - FS05.3 New characterization and chemistry of Germall 115 and Germall II
JO  - Contact Dermatitis
VL  - 50
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309bf.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309bf.x
SP  - 144
EP  - 145
PY  - 2004
AB  - Germall 115 and Germall II are well known cosmetic preservatives, widely used as such since the early 1970?s and 1980?s, respectively. This investigation reveals that they have mistakenly been regarded as pure chemical entities with specific structures by the majority of the chemical society. In fact Germall 115 and Germall II both consist of complex mixtures of numerous and fast degradable allantoin-formaldehyde condensation products and may not even contain the conventionally assigned chemical structures of imidazolidinyl urea (Germall 115) and diazolidinyl urea (Germall II). Equilibrium between different structures may be formed in different cosmetic formulations/test materials. This may have led to the discrepancies in the literature: Are the Germalls themselves sensitizers or are the allergic reactions caused by formaldehyde release? The identification and structure assignment of (4-hydroxymethyl-2,5-dioxo-imidazolidin-4-yl)-urea (HU) will be presented, as it is the major and chemically stable degradation product of both Diazolidinyl urea and Imidazolidinyl urea. A guinea pig maximization test has been performed to determine the potential of HU to induce delayed contact hypersensibility in guinea pigs. Separate chemically stable TRUE Test patches containing the mixtures have shown clinical efficacy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yates, J.M.
AU  - Bolt, R.
AU  - Nahabedian, V.
AU  - Fernando, M.
AU  - Hunter, K.D.
TI  - Primary cutaneous follicle centre lymphoma in the head and neck: don't judge a lump by its presentation
JO  - Oral Surgery
JA  - Oral Surgery
VL  - 7
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ors.12059
DO  - doi:10.1111/ors.12059
SP  - 103
EP  - 108
KW  - diagnosis
KW  - facial swelling
KW  - maxillofacial
KW  - primary cutaneous follicle centre lymphoma
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Isolated swellings within the head and neck region are common phenomena, with the majority being readily diagnosed and appropriately managed. While history alone will often assist in arriving at a correct diagnosis, discrepancies and inconsistencies in the clinical picture should act as a prompt for the clinician to consider the prospect of having encountered less common pathology. We report a case of an unusual supra-orbital swelling where the history, clinical findings and initial investigations masked a rare diagnosis. The differential diagnoses for this case principally included haematoma, infection and cutaneous cyst. However, following a period of review with no improvement in either symptoms or objective clinical measures, incisional biopsy confirmed a diagnosis of primary cutaneous follicle centre lymphoma. Management thereafter involved referral for lymphoma specialist assessment, with subsequent investigation to establish the level of locoregional and/or systemic involvement and the initiation of appropriate radiotherapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Grandemange, E.
AU  - Fournel, S.
AU  - Woehrlé, F.
TI  - Efficacy and safety of cimicoxib in the control of perioperative pain in dogs
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 54
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12082
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12082
SP  - 304
EP  - 312
PY  - 2013
AB  - Objectives To determine the efficacy and safety of cimicoxib (Cimalgex?; Vétoquinol SA) for the control of perioperative pain in dogs. Methods A double-blind, randomized, controlled multi-centre field study was conducted in 237 dogs undergoing orthopaedic or soft tissue surgery. Pain was monitored by the attending veterinarian over the 7 days following the surgical procedure using two pain-scoring systems and a visual analogue scale. An enhanced monitoring protocol for postoperative pain was utilized during the first 24 hours after surgery. The dog owner's assessment of perceived analgesia during this time period was also recorded. Results Cimicoxib demonstrated statistically significant non-inferiority compared to carprofen. These findings were confirmed by owners? assessments and by the evolution of the pain scores. Both drugs were well tolerated throughout the study. Clinical Significance Cimicoxib had non-inferior efficacy and tolerability when compared to carprofen for the control of perioperative pain in dogs undergoing orthopaedic or soft tissue surgery.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vinen, John
TI  - The role of colloids in resuscitation
JO  - Emergency Medicine
VL  - 8
IS  - s1
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1442-2026.1996.tb00542.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1442-2026.1996.tb00542.x
SP  - 41
EP  - 50
PY  - 1996
AB  - Abstract Colloids have been used for many years in resuscitation yet few studies have thoroughly examined their usefulness. Colloids and a combination of crystalloids and colloids continue to be used without any real scientific basis. Scrutiny of review articles, experimental studies, and clinical investigations reveals conflicting and confusing data. There are too many variables to accurately interpret findings, cross species problems with animal studies, different fluids used making comparisons difficult if not impossible, and confounding variables that include: 1 Health status of the patients 2 Severity/type of injury 3 Complications (especially sepsis) 4 Varying grades of shock 5 Variable time scale of administration of fluids 6 Variable volumes administered 7 Differing methods of determining fluid volume depletion 8 Inconsistent monitoring 9 Differing endpoints 10 Different techniques to measure endpoints 11 Comparison of delayed treatment of traumatic shock with blood loss occurring during surgery of questionable validity. One of the areas that has been studied reasonably well is the allergic effects associated with colloid use and more recently the adverse effects associated with the use of dextrose solutions in patients with head injuries. The continued effort to develop satisfactory resuscitation solutions including the recent development of hypertonic saline solutions (usually in combination with a colloid) highlights the uncertainty that exists in relation to the true role of the colloid and crystalloid agents available. Recent studies question the use of fluids to resuscitate patients with penetrating torso injuries. The aim of this paper is to review what is known about the use of colloids and crystalloids in resuscitation and to recommend guidelines as to which fluid should be used in differing clinical situations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Singh, Ameet
AU  - Giuffrida, Michelle A.
AU  - Thomson, Christopher B.
AU  - Baum, Jared
AU  - Kramek, Betty
AU  - Liptak, Julius M.
AU  - Hyndman, Philip
AU  - Ringwood, Brendon
AU  - Smeak, Daniel
AU  - Ham, Kathleen
AU  - Berg, John
AU  - Thieman-Mankin, Kelley
AU  - Blois, Shauna L.
AU  - Boston, Sarah E.
TI  - Perioperative characteristics, histological diagnosis, and outcome in cats undergoing surgical treatment of primary hyperparathyroidism
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 48
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.13165
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.13165
SP  - 367
EP  - 374
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Objective To report perioperative characteristics, complications, histopathologic diagnosis and outcome in cats undergoing surgical treatment for primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT). Study design Multi-institutional, retrospective case series. Animals Thirty-two client-owned cats. Methods Medical records of cats treated with surgical removal of 1 or more parathyroid gland(s) with confirmed histopathologic evaluation were reviewed. Cats were divided into preoperative ionized calcium (iCa) groups corresponding to the 33rd, 67th, and 100th percentiles of the preoperative iCa results of the study population. Follow-up consisted of phone conversation with owners or primary veterinarian. Results Ionized calcium was above reference range in all cats (median 1.8?mmol/L [interquartile range, 1.5?1.9]). Abnormal tissue was excised after cervical exploration in all cats. The most common histopathologic diagnoses were parathyroid adenoma in 20 of 32 (62.5%) cats and parathyroid carcinoma in 7 of 32 (21.9%) cats. At discharge, 6 of 32 (18.8%) cats had hypercalcemia, 5 of 32 (15.6%) had hypocalcemia, and 21 of 32 (65.6%) were normocalcemic. Preoperative iCa did not correlate with postoperative iCa. The median follow-up time was 332?days (range, 7?3156). Overall median survival time was 1109?days (95% CI, 856?1332). Survival time was not associated with preoperative iCa group, hypocalcemia at discharge, hypercalcemia at discharge, or diagnosis of carcinoma. Conclusion In this cohort of cats, parathyroid adenoma was the most common cause of PHPT, and surgical treatment resulted in very good median survival time. Preoperative iCa was not predictive of postoperative hypocalcemia. Clinical significance Surgical parathyroidectomy for treatment of PHPT in cats provides a favorable prognosis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Natalini, Claudio C
AU  - Da Silva Serpa, Priscila B
AU  - Cavalcanti, Ruben L
AU  - Polydoro, Alexandre S
AU  - Griffith, Joanna E
AU  - Santos, Luiz CP
AU  - Nicholson, Anthony
TI  - General anesthesia with an injectable 8% v/v sevoflurane lipid emulsion administered intravenously to dogs
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 43
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12317
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12317
SP  - 271
EP  - 280
KW  - canine
KW  - hemodynamics
KW  - lipid emulsion
KW  - sevoflurane
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Objective To evaluate the potential of an intravenous (IV) sevoflurane formulation for maintenance of general anesthesia in dogs. Study design Prospective crossover design. Animals Six healthy, mature, mixed-breed dogs, four males and two females, weighing 11.7 ± 3.4 kg. Methods Anesthesia was induced and maintained with propofol IV for instrumentation. Baseline measurements were recorded before administration of either sevoflurane in oxygen (Sevo-Inh) or lipid-emulsified sevoflurane 8% v/v in 30% Intralipid IV (Sevo-E), 0.5 mL kg?1 over 5 minutes followed by an infusion at 0.1?0.3 mL kg?1 minute?1. Dogs were breathing spontaneously. The ?up-and-down? technique was used to determine the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of sevoflurane. Over 120 minutes, a tail clamp was applied every 15 minutes and sevoflurane administration was adjusted depending on the response. End-tidal sevoflurane concentration and variables were recorded at 30, 60, 90, and 120 minutes: heart rate (HR), systemic arterial pressure (sAP), respiratory rate (fR), end-tidal carbon dioxide tension, hemoglobin oxygen saturation (SaO2), arterial pH and blood gases, blood urea nitrogen, alanine aminotransferase, creatine kinase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, and aspartate aminotransferase. Results There were no significant differences between treatments for HR, sAP, fR, SaO2, and biochemical variables (p > 0.05). pH and were significantly decreased, and PaCO2 increased from baseline in Sevo-E (p < 0.05). MAC was significantly lower for Sevo-E than for Sevo-Inh, although the required dose of sevoflurane (g hour?1) to maintain general anesthesia was not significantly different between treatments. Conclusions and clinical relevance Administration of 8% v/v sevoflurane lipid emulsion IV was effective in maintaining general anesthesia in dogs, but resulted in moderate cardiopulmonary depression, metabolic and respiratory acidosis. The amount of sevoflurane (g hour?1) required to maintain general anesthesia was significantly lower for inhaled than for IV sevoflurane.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Guo, Qianping
AU  - Liu, Chen
AU  - Li, Jun
AU  - Zhu, Caihong
AU  - Yang, Huilin
AU  - Li, Bin
TI  - Gene expression modulation in TGF-β3-mediated rabbit bone marrow stem cells using electrospun scaffolds of various stiffness
JO  - Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
JA  - J. Cell. Mol. Med.
VL  - 19
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jcmm.12533
DO  - doi:10.1111/jcmm.12533
SP  - 1582
EP  - 1592
KW  - bone marrow stem cells
KW  - annulus fibrosus-derived stem cells
KW  - TGF-β3 treatment
KW  - gene expression
KW  - electrospun scaffolds
KW  - stiffness
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Tissue engineering has recently evolved into a promising approach for annulus fibrosus (AF) regeneration. However, selection of an ideal cell source, which can be readily differentiated into AF cells of various regions, remains challenging because of the heterogeneity of AF tissue. In this study, we set out to explore the feasibility of using transforming growth factor-?3-mediated bone marrow stem cells (tBMSCs) for AF tissue engineering. Since the differentiation of stem cells significantly relies on the stiffness of substrate, we fabricated nanofibrous scaffolds from a series of biodegradable poly(ether carbonate urethane)-urea (PECUU) materials whose elastic modulus approximated that of native AF tissue. We cultured tBMSCs on PECUU scaffolds and compared their gene expression profile to AF-derived stem cells (AFSCs), the newly identified AF tissue-specific stem cells. As predicted, the expression of collagen-I in both tBMSCs and AFSCs increased with scaffold stiffness, whereas the expression of collagen-II and aggrecan genes showed an opposite trend. Interestingly, the expression of collagen-I, collagen-II and aggrecan genes in tBMSCs on PECUU scaffolds were consistently higher than those in AFSCs regardless of scaffold stiffness. In addition, the cell traction forces (CTFs) of both tBMSCs and AFSCs gradually decreased with scaffold stiffness, which is similar to the CTF change of cells from inner to outer regions of native AF tissue. Together, findings from this study indicate that tBMSCs had strong tendency to differentiate into various types of AF cells and presented gene expression profiles similar to AFSCs, thereby establishing a rationale for the use of tBMSCs in AF tissue engineering.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Caner, C.
AU  - Ozlem, S.
AU  - Yavuz, Y.
AU  - Ali Riza, S.
AU  - Ozlen, P.
AU  - Beyhan, I.
AU  - Sema, O.
TI  - The effects of exercise during hemodialysis on adequacy
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121r.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121r.x
SP  - 77
EP  - 77
PY  - 2005
AB  - Pedalling during hemodialysis (HD) has been shown to increase solute clearance in a previous study. In the present study, we aimed to test whether an easy to perform exercise program, not requiring a special device, could yield similar outcomes. Fifteen HD patients with the mean age of 48.4?±?3.8 years were enrolled into the study. Patients with significant access recirculation (>10%), moderate to severe coronary artery disease, moderate to severe heart failure, severe chronic obstructive lung disease, and history of lower extremity surgery during last three month period were excluded. All patients were studied on two consecutive HD sessions with identical prescriptions. At the first session, standard HD was applied without exercise, whereas in the second session lower extremity exercise of 30 minutes duration was added. Reduction rates and rebound for urea, creatinine, and potassium and Kt/V were calculated. Wilcoxon signed rank test was applied in analysis and p?<?0.05 was accepted as significance level. All patients completed the study. When both sessions were compared, mean arterial blood pressure (97?±?3?mmHg vs 120?±?4?mmHg, p?<?0.001) and heart rate (77?±?1 beats/min vs 92?±?3 beats/min, p?<?0.001) were higher in the exercise group. On the other hand, urea reduction rates, rebound values of urea, creatinine, and potassium were similar in both groups. Conclusion:?In the study, we did not observe any changes in solute rebound and clearance with the exercise. Shorter duration of the exercise may be the explanation of failure to achieve desired outcomes. Increasing patients? tolerance and fitness levels by means of steadily increasing exercise programs may be of help. Additionally, mode of exercise may also be responsible for different outcomes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lee, Wei Hao
AU  - O'Brien, Sharon
AU  - Skarin, Dmitry
AU  - Cheek, John A
AU  - Deitch, Jessica
AU  - Nataraja, Ramesh
AU  - Craig, Simon
AU  - Borland, Meredith L
AU  - on behalf of PREDICT
TI  - Accuracy of clinician gestalt in diagnosing appendicitis in children presenting to the emergency department
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 31
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.13220
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.13220
SP  - 612
EP  - 618
KW  - appendicitis
KW  - clinical scoring system
KW  - clinician gestalt
KW  - emergency department
KW  - paediatric
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Objective Abdominal pain is a common paediatric presentation to the ED. Accurate diagnosis of acute appendicitis is challenging, with the best-performing clinical scoring systems having sensitivities between 72% and 100%. The aim of this study is to assess the diagnostic accuracy of clinician gestalt according to seniority in diagnosing paediatric acute appendicitis in ED. Methods This is a prospective multi-centre observational study of clinician's prediction of appendicitis in children under the age of 16?years presenting to four EDs with abdominal pain over a 1 month period at each site. Clinician-estimated likelihood of acute appendicitis was compared with the final diagnosis determined by histopathology or operative findings and supplemented by telephone follow up for those without an operation. The primary outcome was diagnostic accuracy of clinician gestalt according to clinician seniority in diagnosing appendicitis. Results There were 381 children enrolled with completed clinician questionnaires, and 224 children had complete follow up or underwent appendicectomy. The median age was 9 years (interquartile range 6?12) and the incidence of appendicitis was 31/224 (13.8%, 95% confidence interval 9.3?18.4). The area under the curve (AUC), sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of clinician gestalt were 0.84 (0.76?0.91), 81% (63?93%), 76% (69?82%), 35% (28?42%) and 96% (92?98%), respectively, giving an overall diagnostic accuracy of 76% (70?82%). AUC stratified by clinician seniority (junior, intermediate and senior) were 0.89 (0.80?0.98), 0.82 (0.69?0.95) and 0.76 (0.56?0.96), respectively. Conclusions The diagnostic accuracy of ED clinician gestalt in paediatric appendicitis is comparable to current clinical scoring systems irrespective of seniority.
ER  - 
