
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lundin, Jeffrey G.
AU  - Daniels, Grant C.
AU  - McGann, Christopher L.
AU  - Stanbro, Joshua
AU  - Watters, Chaselynn
AU  - Stockelman, Michael
AU  - Wynne, James H.
C7  - 1600375
TI  - Multi-Functional Polyurethane Hydrogel Foams with Tunable Mechanical Properties for Wound Dressing Applications
JO  - Macromolecular Materials and Engineering
JA  - Macromol. Mater. Eng.
VL  - 302
IS  - 3
SN  - 1438-7492
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mame.201600375
DO  - doi:10.1002/mame.201600375
SP  - 1600375
KW  - nontoxic
KW  - polyurethane foams
KW  - solvent-free synthesis
KW  - wound dressing
PY  - 2017
AB  - Polyurethane hydrogel foams synthesized through a facile one-pot, solvent-free process are described. The roles of polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecular weight, crosslinking density, and foam stabilizer concentration on polymer properties are evaluated for potential applications as wound dressing materials. Material characterization and wound dressing relevant performance evaluations are performed to understand effects of individual components and identify promising formulations. Surprisingly for a solvent-free reaction, complete polymerization is confirmed by IR and gel fraction analyses. Foam stabilizing agent loading increases mechanical properties including Young's modulus, extensibility, and toughness while decreasing pore size and drug release rate. Mechanical properties are also dependent on the crystalline melting temperature of the PEG diol. Utilizing caffeine as a drug surrogate, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) drug-release analysis identifies that polyurethane hydrogel foams exhibit initial burst release kinetics followed by sustained release over 24 h. Antibiotic compatibility and release is demonstrated for all formulations by zone of inhibition testing against gram-positive and negative bacteria.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Siewerdsen, Jeffrey
TI  - TU-AB-204-00: Advances in Cone-Beam CT and Emerging Applications
JO  - Medical Physics
JA  - Med. Phys.
VL  - 42
IS  - 6Part31
SN  - 0094-2405
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4925530
DO  - doi:10.1118/1.4925530
SP  - 3592
EP  - 3593
KW  - Cone beam computed tomography
KW  - Brain
KW  - Stroke
KW  - Spatial resolution
KW  - Angiography
KW  - Time resolved imaging
KW  - Medical image spatial resolution
KW  - Medical image reconstruction
PY  - 2015
AB  - This symposium highlights advanced cone-beam CT (CBCT) technologies in four areas of emerging application in diagnostic imaging and image-guided interventions. Each area includes research that extends the spatial, temporal, and/or contrast resolution characteristics of CBCT beyond conventional limits through advances in scanner technology, acquisition protocols, and 3D image reconstruction techniques. Dr. G. Chen (University of Wisconsin) will present on the topic: Advances in C-arm CBCT for Brain Perfusion Imaging. Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability, and a fraction of people having an acute ischemic stroke are suitable candidates for endovascular therapy. Critical factors that affect both the likelihood of successful revascularization and good clinical outcome are: 1) the time between stroke onset and revascularization; and 2) the ability to distinguish patients who have a small volume of irreversibly injured brain (ischemic core) and a large volume of ischemic but salvageable brain (penumbra) from patients with a large ischemic core and little or no penumbra. Therefore, ?time is brain? in the care of the stroke patients. C-arm CBCT systems widely available in angiography suites have the potential to generate non-contrast-enhanced CBCT images to exclude the presence of hemorrhage, time-resolved CBCT angiography to evaluate the site of occlusion and collaterals, and CBCT perfusion parametric images to assess the extent of the ischemic core and penumbra, thereby fulfilling the imaging requirements of a ?one-stop-shop? in the angiography suite to reduce the time between onset and revascularization therapy. The challenges and opportunities to advance CBCT technology to fully enable the one-stop-shop C-arm CBCT platform for brain imaging will be discussed. Dr. R. Fahrig (Stanford University) will present on the topic: Advances in C-arm CBCT for Cardiac Interventions. With the goal of providing functional information during cardiac interventions, significant effort has been expended to improve the quantitative accuracy of C-arm CBCT reconstructions. The challenge is to improve image quality while providing very short turnaround between data acquisition and volume data visualization. Corrections for x-ray scatter, view aliasing and patient motion that require no more than 2 iterations keep processing time short while reducing artifact. Fast, multi-sweep acquisitions can be used to permit assessment of left ventricular function, and visualization of radiofrequency lesions created to treat arrhythmias. Workflows for each imaging goal have been developed and validated against gold standard clinical CT or histology. The challenges, opportunities, and limitations of the new functional C-arm CBCT imaging techniques will be discussed. Dr. W. Zbijewski (Johns Hopkins University) will present on the topic: Advances in CBCT for Orthopaedics and Bone Health Imaging. Cone-beam CT is particularly well suited for imaging of musculoskeletal extremities. Owing to the high spatial resolution of flat-panel detectors, CBCT can surpass conventional CT in imaging tasks involving bone visualization, quantitative analysis of subchondral trabecular structure, and visualization and monitoring of subtle fractures that are common in orthopedic radiology. A dedicated CBCT platform has been developed that offers flexibility in system design and provides not only a compact configuration with improved logistics for extremities imaging but also enables novel diagnostic capabilities such as imaging of weight-bearing lower extremities in a natural stance. The design, development and clinical performance of dedicated extremities CBCT systems will be presented. Advanced capabilities for quantitative volumetric assessment of joint space morphology, dual-energy image-based quantification of bone composition, and in-vivo analysis of bone microarchitecture will be discussed, along with emerging applications in the diagnosis of arthritis and osteoporosis and assessment of novel therapies. Finally, Dr. J. Boone (UC Davis) will present on the topic: Advances in CBCT for Breast Imaging. Breast CT has been studied as an imaging tool for diagnostic breast evaluation and for potential breast cancer screening. The breast CT application lends itself to CBCT because of the small dimensions of the breast, the tapered shape of the breast towards higher cone angle, and the fact that there are no bones in the breast. The performance of various generations of breast CT scanners developed in recent years will be discussed, focusing on advances in spatial resolution and image noise characteristics. The results will also demonstrate the results of clinical trials using both computer and human observers. Learning Objectives: Understand the challenges, key technological advances, and emerging opportunities of CBCT in: 1.Brain perfusion imaging, including assessment of ischemic stroke 2.Cardiac imaging for functional assessment in cardiac interventions 3.Orthopedics imaging for evaluation of musculoskeletal trauma, arthritis, and osteoporosis 4.Breast imaging for screening and diagnosis of breast cancer. Work presented in this symposium includes research support by: Siemens Healthcare (Dr. Chen); NIH and Siemens Healthcare (Dr. Fahrig); NIH and Carestream Health (Dr. Zbijewski); and NIH (Dr. Boone).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fahrig, R.
TI  - TU-AB-204-02: Advances in C-Arm CBCT for Cardiac Interventions
JO  - Medical Physics
JA  - Med. Phys.
VL  - 42
IS  - 6Part31
SN  - 0094-2405
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4925532
DO  - doi:10.1118/1.4925532
SP  - 3592
EP  - 3593
KW  - Cone beam computed tomography
KW  - Stroke
KW  - Brain
KW  - Time resolved imaging
KW  - Spatial resolution
KW  - Medical image spatial resolution
KW  - Angiography
KW  - Medical image reconstruction
PY  - 2015
AB  - This symposium highlights advanced cone-beam CT (CBCT) technologies in four areas of emerging application in diagnostic imaging and image-guided interventions. Each area includes research that extends the spatial, temporal, and/or contrast resolution characteristics of CBCT beyond conventional limits through advances in scanner technology, acquisition protocols, and 3D image reconstruction techniques. Dr. G. Chen (University of Wisconsin) will present on the topic: Advances in C-arm CBCT for Brain Perfusion Imaging. Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability, and a fraction of people having an acute ischemic stroke are suitable candidates for endovascular therapy. Critical factors that affect both the likelihood of successful revascularization and good clinical outcome are: 1) the time between stroke onset and revascularization; and 2) the ability to distinguish patients who have a small volume of irreversibly injured brain (ischemic core) and a large volume of ischemic but salvageable brain (penumbra) from patients with a large ischemic core and little or no penumbra. Therefore, ?time is brain? in the care of the stroke patients. C-arm CBCT systems widely available in angiography suites have the potential to generate non-contrast-enhanced CBCT images to exclude the presence of hemorrhage, time-resolved CBCT angiography to evaluate the site of occlusion and collaterals, and CBCT perfusion parametric images to assess the extent of the ischemic core and penumbra, thereby fulfilling the imaging requirements of a ?one-stop-shop? in the angiography suite to reduce the time between onset and revascularization therapy. The challenges and opportunities to advance CBCT technology to fully enable the one-stop-shop C-arm CBCT platform for brain imaging will be discussed. Dr. R. Fahrig (Stanford University) will present on the topic: Advances in C-arm CBCT for Cardiac Interventions. With the goal of providing functional information during cardiac interventions, significant effort has been expended to improve the quantitative accuracy of C-arm CBCT reconstructions. The challenge is to improve image quality while providing very short turnaround between data acquisition and volume data visualization. Corrections for x-ray scatter, view aliasing and patient motion that require no more than 2 iterations keep processing time short while reducing artifact. Fast, multi-sweep acquisitions can be used to permit assessment of left ventricular function, and visualization of radiofrequency lesions created to treat arrhythmias. Workflows for each imaging goal have been developed and validated against gold standard clinical CT or histology. The challenges, opportunities, and limitations of the new functional C-arm CBCT imaging techniques will be discussed. Dr. W. Zbijewski (Johns Hopkins University) will present on the topic: Advances in CBCT for Orthopaedics and Bone Health Imaging. Cone-beam CT is particularly well suited for imaging of musculoskeletal extremities. Owing to the high spatial resolution of flat-panel detectors, CBCT can surpass conventional CT in imaging tasks involving bone visualization, quantitative analysis of subchondral trabecular structure, and visualization and monitoring of subtle fractures that are common in orthopedic radiology. A dedicated CBCT platform has been developed that offers flexibility in system design and provides not only a compact configuration with improved logistics for extremities imaging but also enables novel diagnostic capabilities such as imaging of weight-bearing lower extremities in a natural stance. The design, development and clinical performance of dedicated extremities CBCT systems will be presented. Advanced capabilities for quantitative volumetric assessment of joint space morphology, dual-energy image-based quantification of bone composition, and in-vivo analysis of bone microarchitecture will be discussed, along with emerging applications in the diagnosis of arthritis and osteoporosis and assessment of novel therapies. Finally, Dr. J. Boone (UC Davis) will present on the topic: Advances in CBCT for Breast Imaging. Breast CT has been studied as an imaging tool for diagnostic breast evaluation and for potential breast cancer screening. The breast CT application lends itself to CBCT because of the small dimensions of the breast, the tapered shape of the breast towards higher cone angle, and the fact that there are no bones in the breast. The performance of various generations of breast CT scanners developed in recent years will be discussed, focusing on advances in spatial resolution and image noise characteristics. The results will also demonstrate the results of clinical trials using both computer and human observers. Learning Objectives: Understand the challenges, key technological advances, and emerging opportunities of CBCT in: 1.Brain perfusion imaging, including assessment of ischemic stroke 2.Cardiac imaging for functional assessment in cardiac interventions 3.Orthopedics imaging for evaluation of musculoskeletal trauma, arthritis, and osteoporosis 4.Breast imaging for screening and diagnosis of breast cancer. Work presented in this symposium includes research support by: Siemens Healthcare (Dr. Chen); NIH and Siemens Healthcare (Dr. Fahrig); NIH and Carestream Health (Dr. Zbijewski); and NIH (Dr. Boone).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bryan, Craig J. 
AU  - Hernandez, Ann M.
TI  - Predictors of Post-Traumatic Headache Severity Among Deployed Military Personnel
JO  - Headache: The Journal of Head and Face Pain
VL  - 51
IS  - 6
SN  - 0017-8748
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1526-4610.2011.01887.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1526-4610.2011.01887.x
SP  - 945
EP  - 953
KW  - post-traumatic headache
KW  - traumatic brain injury
KW  - military population
PY  - 2011
AB  - (Headache 2011;51:945-953) Objective.? The current study used a cross-sectional observational design to evaluate the relationship between psychological, physiological, and contextual factors and headache severity among 133 deployed military personnel and 4 civilian contractors diagnosed with mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) referred to a combat support hospital in Iraq. Background.? Although TBI and headache sequelae have been documented for military combatants, little is known about factors associated with headache severity. Methods.? Military personnel (n?=?157) and civilian (n?=?4) contractors referred to a combat support hospital in Iraq underwent a standardized intake evaluation which included computerized neurocognitive testing, psychological and physical health questionnaires, a clinical interview, and a physical examination by a physician. Results.? Results of zero-inflated Poisson regression modeling suggest that insomnia is associated with increased likelihood for endorsement of any headache, but loss of consciousness, post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms, and slowed reaction time only are predictive of headache severity. Among the subset of patients presenting to the combat support hospital within 7 days of mTBI (n?=?101), number of TBI symptoms demonstrated a non-significant trend toward increased likelihood of headache endorsement of any kind, with loss of consciousness, post-traumatic stress disorder, and slowed reaction time demonstrating significant relationships with headache severity. Conclusion.? Knowledge of predictors of post-concussive headache onset and severity may assist clinicians in making important decisions regarding treatment recommendations for veterans with mTBI.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Seago, Meghan
AU  - Shumaker, Peter R.
AU  - Spring, Leah K.
AU  - Alam, Murad
AU  - Al-Niaimi, Firas
AU  - Rox Anderson, R.
AU  - Artzi, Ofir
AU  - Bayat, Ardeshir
AU  - Cassuto, Daniel
AU  - Chan, Henry HL
AU  - Dierickx, Christine
AU  - Donelan, Matthias
AU  - Gauglitz, Gerd G.
AU  - Leo Goo, Boncheol
AU  - Goodman, Greg J.
AU  - Gurtner, Geoffrey
AU  - Haedersdal, Merete
AU  - Krakowski, Andrew C.
AU  - Manuskiatti, Woraphong
AU  - Norbury, William B.
AU  - Ogawa, Rei
AU  - Ozog, David M.
AU  - Paasch, Uwe
AU  - Victor Ross, E.
AU  - Tretti Clementoni, Matteo
AU  - Waibel, Jill
TI  - Laser Treatment of Traumatic Scars and Contractures: 2020 International Consensus Recommendations
JO  - Lasers in Surgery and Medicine
JA  - Lasers Surg. Med.
VL  - 52
IS  - 2
SN  - 0196-8092
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/lsm.23201
DO  - doi:10.1002/lsm.23201
SP  - 96
EP  - 116
KW  - laser
KW  - scar
KW  - traumatic scar
KW  - burn scar
KW  - fractional
KW  - vascular
PY  - 2020
AB  - Background and Objectives There is currently intense multidisciplinary interest and a maturing body of literature regarding laser treatments for traumatic scars, but international treatment guidelines and reimbursement schemes have not yet caught up with current knowledge and practice in many centers. The authors intend to highlight the tremendous potential of laser techniques, offer recommendations for safe and efficacious treatment, and promote wider patient access guided by future high-quality research. Study Design/Materials and Methods An international panel of 26 dermatologists and plastic and reconstructive surgeons from 13 different countries and a variety of practice backgrounds was self-assembled to develop updated consensus recommendations for the laser treatment of traumatic scars. A three-step modified Delphi method took place between March 2018 and March 2019 consisting of two rounds of emailed questionnaires and supplementary face-to-face meetings. The panel members approved the final manuscript via email correspondence, and the threshold for consensus was at least 80% concurrence among the panel members. Results The manuscript includes extensive detailed discussion regarding a variety of laser platforms commonly used for traumatic scar management such as vascular lasers and ablative and non-ablative fractional lasers, special considerations such as coding and laser treatments in skin of color, and 25 summary consensus recommendations. Conclusions Lasers are a first-line therapy in the management of traumatic scars and contractures, and patients without access to these treatments may not be receiving the best available care after injury. Updated international treatment guidelines and reimbursement schemes, additional high-quality research, and patient access should reflect this status. Lasers Surg. Med. ? 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

AU  - Bansal, Vishal
AU  - Doucet, Jay J.
C7  - pp. 371-383
TI  - Small Intestine, Appendix, and Colorectal
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119317913.ch37
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119317913.ch37
SP  - 371-383
KW  - appendicitis
KW  - carcinoid tumors
KW  - cecal volvulus
KW  - colorectal anastomotic leaks
KW  - gastrointestinal tumors
KW  - rectal trauma
KW  - sigmoid volvulus
KW  - small intestine
PY  - 2020
AB  - Summary This is a unique question-and-answer chapter for surgical residents and trainees, concentrating on the injuries of small intestine, appendix, and colorectal. Carcinoid tumors are rare gastrointestinal tumors, the majority of which are found on the appendix. These tumors may appear as a dense mass on CT imaging, resembling a fecolith, and thus are often found incidentally on pathology when the suspected diagnosis is appendicitis. Cecal volvulus occurs in younger patients who are less-debilitated than those presenting with sigmoid volvulus. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is successful in over 50% of cases of sigmoid volvulus, but decompressive colonoscopy is almost never successful in cecal volvulus. Routine diversion of extraperitoneal rectal injury such as with a loop colostomy is recommended in an attempt to avoid pelvic sepsis. New techniques for using trans-anal endoscopic placement of vacuum assisted closure sponge devices have been described for management of prolonged colorectal anastomotic leaks, but not for acute rectal trauma.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Karamzadeh, Nader
AU  - Amyot, Franck
AU  - Kenney, Kimbra
AU  - Anderson, Afrouz
AU  - Chowdhry, Fatima
AU  - Dashtestani, Hadis
AU  - Wassermann, Eric M.
AU  - Chernomordik, Victor
AU  - Boccara, Claude
AU  - Wegman, Edward
AU  - Diaz-Arrastia, Ramon
AU  - Gandjbakhche, Amir H.
C7  - e00541
TI  - A machine learning approach to identify functional biomarkers in human prefrontal cortex for individuals with traumatic brain injury using functional near-infrared spectroscopy
JO  - Brain and Behavior
JA  - Brain Behav
VL  - 6
IS  - 11
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/brb3.541
DO  - doi:10.1002/brb3.541
SP  - e00541
KW  - classification
KW  - feature selection
KW  - machine learning
KW  - near-infrared spectroscopy
KW  - traumatic brain injury
KW  - time series feature extraction
KW  - wrapper method
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Background We have explored the potential prefrontal hemodynamic biomarkers to characterize subjects with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) by employing the multivariate machine learning approach and introducing a novel task-related hemodynamic response detection followed by a heuristic search for optimum set of hemodynamic features. To achieve this goal, the hemodynamic response from a group of 31 healthy controls and 30 chronic TBI subjects were recorded as they performed a complexity task. Methods To determine the optimum hemodynamic features, we considered 11 features and their combinations in characterizing TBI subjects. We investigated the significance of the features by utilizing a machine learning classification algorithm to score all the possible combinations of features according to their predictive power. Results and Conclusions The identified optimum feature elements resulted in classification accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of 85%, 85%, and 84%, respectively. Classification improvement was achieved for TBI subject classification through feature combination. It signified the major advantage of the multivariate analysis over the commonly used univariate analysis suggesting that the features that are individually irrelevant in characterizing the data may become relevant when used in combination. We also conducted a spatio-temporal classification to identify regions within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) that contribute in distinguishing between TBI and healthy subjects. As expected, Brodmann areas (BA) 10 within the PFC were isolated as the region that healthy subjects (unlike subjects with TBI), showed major hemodynamic activity in response to the High Complexity task. Overall, our results indicate that identified temporal and spatio-temporal features from PFC's hemodynamic activity are promising biomarkers in classifying subjects with TBI.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wegner, Adam M.
AU  - Campos, Nestor R.
AU  - Robbins, Michael A.
AU  - Haddad, Andrew F.
AU  - Cunningham, Hailey C.
AU  - Yik, Jasper H. N.
AU  - Christiansen, Blaine A.
AU  - Haudenschild, Dominik R.
TI  - Acute Changes in NADPH Oxidase 4 in Early Post-Traumatic Osteoarthritis
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res
VL  - 37
IS  - 11
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.24417
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.24417
SP  - 2429
EP  - 2436
KW  - post-traumatic osteoarthritis
KW  - joint injury
KW  - antioxidant
KW  - inflammation
KW  - NADPH oxidase
KW  - Nox4
PY  - 2019
AB  - ABSTRACT Knee injuries cause structural damage and acute inflammation that initiates the development of post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA). NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4), a member of a family of enzymes that generates reactive oxygen species (ROS), plays a pivotal role in normal development of the musculoskeletal system, but may increase ROS production to harmful levels after joint injury. The role of ROS in both normal joint homeostasis and injury is poorly understood, but inhibition of excessive ROS production by Nox4 after joint injury could be protective to the joint, decreasing oxidative stress, and initiation of PTOA. Knee injuries were simulated using inflammatory cytokines in cultured primary human chondrocytes and a non-invasive mouse model of PTOA in C57BL/6N and Nox4 knockout mice. There is an acute decrease in Nox4 activity within 24?h after injury in both systems, followed by a subsequent sustained low-level increase, a novel finding not seen in any other system. Inhibition of Nox4 activity by GKT137831 was protective against early structural changes after non-invasive knee injury in a mouse model. Nox4 knockout mice had significant differences in structural and mechanical properties of bone, providing further evidence for the role of Nox4 in development of joint tissues and biochemical response after joint injury. Nox4 plays a significant role in the acute phase after joint injury, and targeted inhibition of inflammation caused by Nox4 may be protective against early joint changes in the pathogenesis of PTOA. ? 2019 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 37:2429?2436, 2019
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Armstrong, Richard A
TI  - Visual problems associated with traumatic brain injury
JO  - Clinical and Experimental Optometry
JA  - Clin Exp Optom
VL  - 101
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cxo.12670
DO  - doi:10.1111/cxo.12670
SP  - 716
EP  - 726
KW  - eye movement
KW  - ocular rehabilitation
KW  - traumatic brain injury
KW  - visual signs and symptoms
KW  - visual fields
PY  - 2018
AB  - Traumatic brain injury (TBI) and its associated concussion are major causes of disability and death. All ages can be affected but children, young adults and the elderly are particularly susceptible. A decline in mortality has resulted in many more individuals living with a disability caused by TBI including those affecting vision. This review describes: (1) the major clinical and pathological features of TBI; (2) the visual signs and symptoms associated with the disorder; and (3) discusses the assessment of quality of life and visual rehabilitation of the patient. Defects in primary vision such as visual acuity and visual fields, eye movement including vergence, saccadic and smooth pursuit movements, and in more complex aspects of vision involving visual perception, motion vision (?akinopsia?), and visuo-spatial function have all been reported in TBI. Eye movement dysfunction may be an early sign of TBI. Hence, TBI can result in a variety of visual problems, many patients exhibiting multiple visual defects in combination with a decline in overall health. Patients with chronic dysfunction following TBI may require occupational, vestibular, cognitive and other forms of physical therapy. Such patients may also benefit from visual rehabilitation, including reading-related oculomotor training and the prescribing of spectacles with a variety of tints and prism combinations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Liang, Hualou
AU  - Zhang, Fengqing
AU  - Niu, Xin
TI  - Investigating systematic bias in brain age estimation with application to post-traumatic stress disorders
JO  - Human Brain Mapping
JA  - Hum Brain Mapp
VL  - 40
IS  - 11
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.24588
DO  - doi:10.1002/hbm.24588
SP  - 3143
EP  - 3152
KW  - bias
KW  - brain age prediction
KW  - machine-learning
KW  - PTSD
KW  - regression to the mean
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Brain age prediction using machine-learning techniques has recently attracted growing attention, as it has the potential to serve as a biomarker for characterizing the typical brain development and neuropsychiatric disorders. Yet one long-standing problem is that the predicted brain age is overestimated in younger subjects and underestimated in older. There is a plethora of claims as to the bias origins, both methodologically and in data itself. With a large neuroanatomical dataset (N?=?2,026; 6?89 years of age) from multiple shared datasets, we show this bias is neither data-dependent nor specific to particular method including deep neural network. We present an alternative account that offers a statistical explanation for the bias and describe a simple, yet efficient, method using general linear model to adjust the bias. We demonstrate the effectiveness of bias adjustment with a large multi-modal neuroimaging data (N?=?804; 8?21 years of age) for both healthy controls and post-traumatic stress disorders patients obtained from the Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Simon, Adam
TI  - P3-093: A MULTI-MODAL BIOSENSOR-BASED APPROACH TO AID IN THE DIAGNOSIS OF CONCUSSION AND ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
JO  - Alzheimer's & Dementia
JA  - Alzheimer's & Dementia
VL  - 10
IS  - 4S_Part_18
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jalz.2014.05.1181
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.jalz.2014.05.1181
SP  - P662
EP  - P662
PY  - 2014
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Umesh Rudrapatna, S.
AU  - Hamming, Arend M.
AU  - Wermer, Marieke J. H.
AU  - van der Toorn, Annette
AU  - Dijkhuizen, Rick M.
C8  - NBM-13-0283.R2
TI  - Measurement of distinctive features of cortical spreading depolarizations with different MRI contrasts
JO  - NMR in Biomedicine
JA  - NMR Biomed.
VL  - 28
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/nbm.3288
DO  - doi:10.1002/nbm.3288
SP  - 591
EP  - 600
KW  - Other functional MRI methods
KW  - Functional MRI (fMRI) Methods
KW  - Methods and Engineering, fMRI signal characteristics
KW  - Functional MRI (fMRI) Methods
KW  - Methods and Engineering, Neurological
KW  - Applications, Spreading Depolarization, SSFP, Combined ADC and T2
PY  - 2015
AB  - Growing clinical evidence suggests critical involvement of spreading depolarizations (SDs) in the pathophysiology of neurological disorders such as migraine and stroke. MRI provides powerful tools to detect and assess co-occurring cerebral hemodynamic and cellular changes during SDs. This study reports the feasibility and advantages of two MRI scans, based on balanced steady-state free precession (b-SSFP) and diffusion-weighted multi-spin-echo (DT2), heretofore unexplored for monitoring SDs. These were compared with gradient-echo MRI. SDs were induced by KCl application in rat brain. Known for high SNR, the T2- and T1-based b-SSFP contrast was hypothesized to provide higher spatiotemporal specificity than -based gradient-echo scanning. DT2 scanning was designed to provide simultaneous T2 and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) measurements, thus enabling combined quantitative assessment of hemodynamic and cellular changes during SDs. Procedures were developed to automate identification of SD-induced responses in all the scans. These responses were analyzed to determine detection sensitivity and temporal characteristics of signals from each scanning method. Cluster analysis was performed to elucidate unique temporal patterns for each contrast. All scans allowed detection of SD-induced responses. b-SSFP scans showed significantly larger relative intensity changes, narrower peak widths and greater spatial specificity compared with gradient-echo MRI. SD-induced effects on ADC, calculated from DT2 scans, showed the most pronounced signal changes, displaying about 20% decrease, as against 10?15% signal increases observed with b-SSFP and gradient-echo scanning. Cluster analysis revealed additional temporal sub-patterns, such as an initial dip on gradient-echo scans and temporally shifted T2 and proton density changes in DT2 data. To summarize, b-SSFP and DT2 scanning provide distinct information on SDs compared with gradient-echo MRI. DT2 scanning, with its potential to simultaneously provide cellular and hemodynamic information, can offer unique information on the inter-relationship between these processes in pathologic brain, which may improve monitoring of spreading depolarizations in (pre)clinical settings. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yakeley, Jessica
TI  - Seeing, mirroring, desiring: The impact of the analyst’s pregnant body on the patient’s body image
JO  - The International Journal of Psychoanalysis
VL  - 94
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1745-8315.12014
DO  - doi:10.1111/1745-8315.12014
SP  - 667
EP  - 688
KW  - analyst’s pregnancy
KW  - body image
KW  - developmental theory
KW  - visual communication
PY  - 2013
AB  - The paper explores the impact of the analyst?s pregnant body on the course of two analyses, a young man, and a young woman, specifically focusing on how each patient?s visual perception and affective experience of being with the analyst?s pregnant body affected their own body image and subjective experience of their body. The pre-verbal or ?subsymbolic? material evoked in the analyses contributed to a greater understanding of the patients? developmental experiences in infancy and adolescence, which had resulted in both carrying a profoundly distorted body image into adulthood. The analyst?s pregnancy offered a therapeutic window in which a shift in the patient?s body image could be initiated. Clinical material is presented in detail with reference to the psychoanalytic literature on the pregnant analyst, and that of the development of the body image, particularly focusing on the role of visual communication and the face. The author proposes a theory of psychic change, drawing on Bucci?s multiple code theory, in which the patients? unconscious or ?subsymbolic? awareness of her pregnancy, which were manifest in their bodily responses, feeling states and dreams, as well as in the analyst s countertransference, could gradually be verbalized and understood within the transference. Thus visual perception, or ?external seeing?, could gradually become ?internal seeing?, or insight into unconscious phantasies, leading to a shift in the patients internal object world towards a less persecutory state and more realistic appraisal of their body image.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Colloca, Luana
AU  - Schenk, Lieven A.
AU  - Nathan, Dominic E.
AU  - Robinson, Oliver J.
AU  - Grillon, Christian
TI  - When Expectancies Are Violated: A Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Study
JO  - Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics
JA  - Clin. Pharmacol. Ther.
VL  - 106
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cpt.1587
DO  - doi:10.1002/cpt.1587
SP  - 1246
EP  - 1252
PY  - 2019
AB  - Positive and negative expectancies drive behavioral and neurobiological placebo and nocebo effects, which in turn can have profound effects on patient improvement or worsening. However, expectations of events and outcomes are often not met in daily life and clinical practice. It is currently unknown how this affects placebo and nocebo effects. We have demonstrated that the violation of expectancies, such as when there is a discrepancy between what is expected and what is actually presented, reduces both placebo and nocebo effects while causing an extinction of placebo effects. The reduction of placebo and nocebo effects was paralleled by an activation of the left inferior parietal cortex, a brain region that redirects attention when discrepancies between sensory and cognitive events occur. Our findings highlight the importance of expectancy violation in shaping placebo and nocebo effects and open up new avenues for managing positive and negative expectations in clinical trials and practices.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yu, Shengyan
AU  - Wu, Meifang
AU  - Zhou, Gengmin
AU  - Ishikawa, Tatsuya
AU  - Liang, Jianle
AU  - Nallapothula, Dhiraj
AU  - Singh, Ram Raj
AU  - Wang, Qingwen
AU  - Wang, Meiying
TI  - Potential utility of anti-TNF drugs in synovial chondromatosis associated with ankylosing spondylitis
JO  - International Journal of Rheumatic Diseases
JA  - Int J Rheum Dis
VL  - 22
IS  - 11
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1756-185X.13734
DO  - doi:10.1111/1756-185X.13734
SP  - 2073
EP  - 2079
KW  - ankylosing spondylitis
KW  - etanercept
KW  - magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - synovial chondromatosis
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract We describe a previously unreported association of ankylosing spondylitis with synovial chondromatosis, and briefly review previously reported cases and treatment of synovial chondromatosis in patients with other immune-mediated inflammatory arthritides. A 20-year-old man with ankylosing spondylitis whose axial disease was in remission with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and oral disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs developed recurrent right knee pain and swelling. Magnetic resonance imaging of his right knee revealed calcified loose bodies, suggestive of synovial chondromatosis. While waiting for the surgical intervention and other invasive therapy previously reported in patients with synovial chondromatosis, a trial of etanercept eliminated the pain and swelling of the knee; however, the loose bodies have persisted during the 2-year follow-up. Thus, synovial chondromatosis should be considered in the differential diagnoses of a refractory monoarticular pain and swelling in patients with otherwise controlled inflammatory arthritis. Our report advocates a trial of anti-tumor necrosis factor drugs, which might delay the need for invasive therapy in patients with synovial chondromatosis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rusinek, Henry
AU  - Brys, Miroslaw
AU  - Glodzik, Lidia
AU  - Switalski, Remigiusz
AU  - Tsui, Wai-Hon
AU  - Haas, Francois
AU  - Mcgorty, Kellyanne
AU  - Chen, Qun
AU  - de Leon, Mony J.
TI  - Hippocampal blood flow in normal aging measured with arterial spin labeling at 3T
JO  - Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
JA  - Magn. Reson. Med.
VL  - 65
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mrm.22611
DO  - doi:10.1002/mrm.22611
SP  - 128
EP  - 137
KW  - MR imaging, methods
KW  - hippocampus
KW  - cerebral blood flow
KW  - brain perfusion
KW  - MR imaging, image analysis
KW  - aging
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Due to methodological difficulties related to the small size, variable distribution of hippocampal arteries, and the location of the hippocampus in the proximity of middle cranial fossa, little is known about hippocampal blood flow (HBF). We have tested the utility of a pulsed arterial spin labeling sequence based on multi-shot true fast imaging in steady precession to measure HBF in 34 normal volunteers (17 women, 17 men, 26?92 years old). Flow sensitivity to a mild hypercapnic challenge was also examined. Coregistered 3D MPRAGE sequence was used to eliminate from hippocampal and cortical regions of interest all voxel with <75% of gray matter. Large blood vessels were also excluded. HBF in normal volunteers averaged 61.2 ± 9.0 mL/(100 g min). There was no statistically significant age or gender effect. Under a mild hypercapnia challenge (end tidal CO2 pressure increase of 6.8 ± 1.9 mmHg over the baseline), HBF response was 14.1 ± 10.8 mL/(100 g min), whereas cortical gray matter flow increased by 18.0 ± 12.2 mL/(100 g min). Flow response among women was significantly larger than in the men. The average absolute difference between two successive HBF measures was 3.6 mL/(100 g min) or 5.4%. The 3T true fast imaging in steady precession arterial spin labeling method offers a HBF measurement strategy that combines good spatial resolution, sensitivity, and minimal image distortions. Magn Reson Med, 2010. ? 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Buhanan, Kurt
TI  - What's Wrong with this Picture? Image-Ethics in Christian Petzold's Films
JO  - The German Quarterly
JA  - The German Quarterly
VL  - 89
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/gequ.12016
DO  - doi:10.1111/gequ.12016
SP  - 480
EP  - 495
KW  - Christian Petzold
KW  - contemporary film
KW  - ethics
KW  - images
KW  - ambiguity
PY  - 2016
AB  - Through an analysis of Christian Petzold's films, this essay argues that there is an ethical dimension to images. The cinema of Christian Petzold is an important instance of the ethical function of images because it constantly negotiates and renegotiates the ethical intelligibility of the image and the ethical claims that images make on us. The essay's argument is developed in three stages: first, it outlines the theoretical concept of an image-ethics of dilemma, centering on the essential ambiguity of images; second, it briefly considers the function of particular multistable images in Petzold's cinema and their role in ordering representation in his films; and, finally, it offers a close analysis of Petzold's recent film Barbara ().
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - N’Djin, W. A.
AU  - Burtnyk, M.
AU  - Lipsman, N.
AU  - Bronskill, M.
AU  - Kucharczyk, W.
AU  - Schwartz, M. L.
AU  - Chopra, R.
C7  - 093301
TI  - Active MR-temperature feedback control of dynamic interstitial ultrasound therapy in brain: In vivo experiments and modeling in native and coagulated tissues
JO  - Medical Physics
JA  - Med. Phys.
VL  - 41
IS  - 9
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4892923
DO  - doi:10.1118/1.4892923
SP  - 093301
KW  - MRI: anatomic, functional, spectral, diffusion
KW  - Clinical applications
KW  - Biomedical instrumentation and transducers, including micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS)
KW  - Biothermics and thermal processes in biology
KW  - Ultrasonography
KW  - biological tissues
KW  - biomedical MRI
KW  - biomedical transducers
KW  - biothermics
KW  - brain
KW  - numerical analysis
KW  - temperature measurement
KW  - ultrasonic therapy
KW  - ultrasonic transducers
KW  - brain
KW  - thermal therapy
KW  - metastasis
KW  - interstitial ultrasound
KW  - MRT feedback
KW  - Involving electronic [emr] or nuclear [nmr] magnetic resonance, e.g. magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - Ultrasound therapy
KW  - Processes or apparatus for generating mechanical vibrations of infrasonic, sonic or ultrasonic frequency
KW  - Measuring temperature; Measuring quantity of heat; Thermally-sensitive elements not otherwise provided for
KW  - Biological material, e.g. blood, urine; Haemocytometers
KW  - Brain
KW  - Ultrasonography
KW  - Tissues
KW  - Tissue engineering
KW  - Ultrasound therapy
KW  - Tissue ablation
KW  - Cancer
KW  - Magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - Ultrasonic attenuation
PY  - 2014
AB  - Purpose: The recent clinical emergence of minimally invasive image-guided therapy has demonstrated promise in the management of brain metastasis, although control over the spatial pattern of heating currently remains limited. Based on experience in other organs, the delivery of high-intensity contact ultrasound energy from minimally invasive applicators can enable accurate spatial control of energy deposition, large treatment volumes, and high treatment rate. In this acute study, the feasibility of active MR-Temperature feedback control of dynamic ultrasound heat deposition for interstitial thermal ablation in brain was evaluatedin vivo. Methods: A four-element linear ultrasound transducer (f = 8.2 MHz) originally developed for transurethral ultrasound therapy was used in a porcine model for generating thermal ablations in brain interstitially. First, the feasibility of treating and retreating preciselyin vivo brain tissues using stationary (non-rotating device) ultrasound exposures was studied in two pigs. Experimental results were compared to numerical simulations for maximum surface acoustic intensities ranging from 5 to 20 W cm?2. Second, active MRT feedback-controlled ultrasound treatments were performed in three pigs with a rotating device to coagulate target volumes of various shapes. The acoustic power and rotation rate of the device were adjusted in real-time based on MR-thermometry feedback control to optimize heat deposition at the target boundary. Modeling of in vivo treatments were performed and compared to observed experimental results. Results: Overall, the time-space evolution of the temperature profiles observedin vivo could be well estimated from numerical simulations for both stationary and dynamic interstitial ultrasound exposures. Dynamic exposures performed under closed-loop temperature control enabled accurate elevation of the brain tissues within the targeted region above the 55?°C threshold necessary for the creation of irreversible thermal damage. Treatment volumes ranging from 1 to 9 cm3 were completed within 8 ± 3 min with a radial targeting error <2 mm on average (treatment rate: 0.7 ± 0.5 cm3/min). Tissue changes were visible on T1-weighted contrast-enhanced (T1w-CE) images immediately after treatment. These changes were also evident on T2-weighted (T2w) images acquired 2 h after the 1st treatment and correlated well with the MR-thermometry measurements. Conclusions: These results support the feasibility of active MRT feedback control of dynamic interstitial ultrasound therapy ofin vivo brain tissues and confirm the feasibility of using simulations to predict spatial heating patterns in the brain.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Palombo, Marco
AU  - Gentili, Silvia
AU  - Bozzali, Marco
AU  - Macaluso, Emiliano
AU  - Capuani, Silvia
TI  - New insight into the contrast in diffusional kurtosis images: Does it depend on magnetic susceptibility?
JO  - Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
JA  - Magn. Reson. Med.
VL  - 73
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mrm.25308
DO  - doi:10.1002/mrm.25308
SP  - 2015
EP  - 2024
KW  - DKI
KW  - DTI
KW  - magnetic susceptibility
KW  - white matter
KW  - human brain
PY  - 2015
AB  - Purpose In this MRI study, diffusional kurtosis imaging (DKI) and T2* multiecho relaxometry were measured from the white matter (WM) of human brains and correlated with each other, with the aim of investigating the influence of magnetic-susceptibility (??H2O-TISSUE) on the contrast. Methods We focused our in vivo analysis on assessing the dependence of mean, axial, and radial kurtosis (MK, K?, K?), as well as DTI indices on ??H2O-TISSUE (quantified by T2*) between extracellular water and WM tissue molecules. Moreover, Monte Carlo (MC) simulations were used to elucidate experimental data. Results A significant positive correlation was observed between K?, MK and R2*?=?1/T2*, suggesting that ??H2O-TISSUE could be a source of DKI contrast. In this view, K? and MK-map contrasts in human WM would not just be due to different restricted diffusion processes of compartmentalized water but also to local ??H2O-TISSUE. However, MC simulations show a strong dependence on microstructure rearrangement and a feeble dependence on ??H2O-TISSUE of DKI signal. Conclusion Our results suggests a concomitant and complementary existence of multi-compartmentalized diffusion process and ??H2O-TISSUE in DKI contrast that might explain why kurtosis contrast is more sensitive than DTI in discriminating between different tissues. However, more realistic numerical simulations are needed to confirm this statement. Magn Reson Med 73:2015?2024, 2015. ? 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - McConnell, E. J.
AU  - Sanz, M. G.
AU  - Kafka, U. C. M.
AU  - Duncan, N. M.
TI  - Parotid salivary gland carcinoma in a geriatric horse
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 26
IS  - 11
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3292.2012.00423.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3292.2012.00423.x
SP  - 610
EP  - 615
KW  - horse
KW  - parotid
KW  - salivary
KW  - carcinoma
KW  - neoplasia
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary This case report describes a geriatric gelding with a 2 month history of fast-growing masses within the parotid and submandibular regions. The horse was dyspnoeic on presentation and upper airway endoscopy revealed partial airway obstruction at the level of the pharynx, secondary to a space-occupying mass. Cytological evaluation of multiple fine-needle aspirates obtained from the masses were suggestive of salivary gland neoplasia, therefore the horse was subjected to humane euthanasia. A computed tomographical scan was obtained post mortem and revealed a large multi-lobulated mass involving both guttural pouches, resulting in 80% occlusion of the naso- and oropharynx. Histopathology confirmed a parotid salivary gland carcinoma (papillary-cystic type). Salivary gland tumours are extremely rare in horses, with only a few cases reported in the literature. Treatment of these malignancies proves to be challenging, requiring complete parotidectomy or surgical debulkment, in combination with adjunctive therapy.
ER  - 
