
TY  - JOUR
AU  - BOELENS, P. G.
AU  - FONK, J. C. M.
AU  - HOUDIJK, A. P. J.
AU  - SCHEPER, R. J.
AU  - HAARMAN, H. J. TH. M.
AU  - MEIJER, S.
AU  - VAN LEEUWEN, P. A. M.
AU  - VON BLOMBERG-VAN DER FLIER, B. M. E.
TI  - Primary immune response to keyhole limpet haemocyanin following trauma in relation to low plasma glutamine
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
VL  - 136
IS  - 2
SN  - 0009-9104
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2249.2004.02447.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2249.2004.02447.x
SP  - 356
EP  - 364
KW  - glutamine
KW  - humoral immune response
KW  - interferon-γ
KW  - KLH
KW  - trauma 
PY  - 2004
AB  - SUMMARY Severe trauma can lead to a compromised immune response, thereby increasing susceptibility to infections. Here we will study to what extent these early changes in the immune status upon trauma affect a primary immune response to keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH). Because glutamine is the preferred respiratory substrate for immune competent cells and known to be depleted after trauma, we studied the immune status and the primary sensitization in relation to the glutamine plasma concentration in a group of severe trauma patients [injury severity score (ISS) >17]. Trauma patients (n?=?31) were sensitized with KLH within 12 h after trauma; plasma glutamine concentrations and immune parameters were determined, after which KLH-specific immune responsiveness was evaluated on days 9 and 14. Low plasma glutamine concentrations were found after trauma. Significantly elevated numbers of granulocytes and CD14-positive leucocytes were found, whereas the HLA-DR expression on CD14-positive cells was significantly lower in trauma patients than in healthy controls. Trauma did not change the in vitro proliferative capacity of lymphocytes when cultured with glutamine; however, when lymphocytes were cultured without glutamine, trauma resulted in lower proliferation than healthy controls. Phytohaemagglutinin-(PHA)-induced interferon (IFN)-? and interleukin (IL)-10 production was significantly lower after trauma, whereas IL-4 production was not affected. KLH sensitization following trauma resulted in poor skin test reactivity and low in vitro KLH-induced lymphocyte proliferation compared to controls. In contrast, the development of anti-KLH IgM, IgG, IgA, IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 production on days 9 and 14 following trauma was not different from that in healthy controls. Major trauma was associated with a reduced cell-mediated immune response, correlating with low plasma glutamine concentrations, while no effects of trauma were found on the development of a primary humoral immune response.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Arshid, Samina
AU  - Tahir, Muhammad
AU  - Fontes, Belchor
AU  - de Souza Montero, Edna Frasson
AU  - Castro, Mariana S.
AU  - Sidoli, Simone
AU  - Roepstorff, Peter
AU  - Fontes, Wagner
C7  - 1600001
TI  - High performance mass spectrometry based proteomics reveals enzyme and signaling pathway regulation in neutrophils during the early stage of surgical trauma
JO  - PROTEOMICS – Clinical Applications
JA  - Prot. Clin. Appl.
VL  - 11
IS  - 1-2
SN  - 1862-8346
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/prca.201600001
DO  - doi:10.1002/prca.201600001
SP  - 1600001
KW  - Inflammation
KW  - Neutrophil
KW  - Proteome
KW  - Surgery
KW  - Trauma
PY  - 2017
AB  - Purpose In clinical conditions trauma is associated with high mortality and morbidity. Neutrophils play a key role in the development of multiple organ failure after trauma Experimental design To have a detailed understanding of the neutrophil activation at primary stages after trauma, neutrophils are isolated from control and surgical trauma rats in this study. Extracted proteins are analyzed using nano liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry. Results A total of 2924 rat neutrophil proteins are identified in our analysis, of which 393 are found differentially regulated between control and trauma groups. By using functional pathways analysis of the 190 proteins up-regulated in surgical trauma, we found proteins related to transcription initiation and protein biosynthesis. On the other hand, among the 203 proteins down-regulated in surgical trauma we found enrichment for proteins of the immune response, proteasome degradation and actin cytoskeleton. Overall, enzyme prediction analysis revealed that regulated enzymes are directly involved in neutrophil apoptosis, directional migration and chemotaxis. Our observations are then confirmed by in silico protein?protein interaction analysis. Conclusions and clinical relevance Collectively, our results reveal that neutrophils drastically regulate their biochemical pathways after the early stages of surgical trauma, showing lower activity. This implies higher susceptibility of the trauma patients to infection and bystander tissues damage.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sagot, Y
AU  - Toni, N
AU  - Perrelet, D
AU  - Lurot, S
AU  - King, B
AU  - Rixner, H
AU  - Mattenberger, L
AU  - Waldmeier, P C
AU  - Kato, A C
TI  - An orally active anti-apoptotic molecule (CGP 3466B) preserves mitochondria and enhances survival in an animal model of motoneuron disease
JO  - British Journal of Pharmacology
VL  - 131
IS  - 4
SN  - 0007-1188
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.bjp.0703633
DO  - doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0703633
SP  - 721
EP  - 728
KW  - Apoptosis
KW  - motoneuron disease
KW  - pmn mice
KW  - non-peptidic molecule
KW  - mitochondria
KW  - CGP 3466B
KW  - GAPDH
PY  - 2000
AB  - Apoptosis and mitochondrial dysfunction are thought to be involved in the aetiology of neurodegenerative diseases. We have tested an orally active anti-apoptotic molecule (CGP 3466B) that binds to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in an animal model with motoneuron degeneration, i.e. a mouse mutant with progressive motor neuronopathy (pmn). In pmn/pmn mice, CGP 3466B was administered orally (10?100?nmol?kg?1) at the onset of the clinical symptoms (2 weeks after birth). CGP 3466B slowed disease progression as determined by a 57% increase in life-span, preservation of body weight and motor performance. This improvement was accompanied by a decreased loss of motoneurons and motoneuron fibres as well as an increase in retrograde transport. Electron microscopic analysis showed that CGP 3466B protects mitochondria which appear to be selectively disrupted in the motoneurons of pmn/pmn mice. The data support evaluation of CGP 3466B as a potential treatment for motor neuron disease. British Journal of Pharmacology (2000) 131, 721?728; doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0703633
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Driessen, Bernd
AU  - Brainard, Benjamin
TI  - Fluid therapy for the traumatized patient
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 16
IS  - 4
SN  - 1479-3261
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1476-4431.2006.00184.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1476-4431.2006.00184.x
SP  - 276
EP  - 299
KW  - colloid
KW  - crystalloid
KW  - fluid resuscitation
KW  - goals and endpoints of resuscitation
KW  - hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier (HBOC)
KW  - hemorrhagic shock
KW  - hypotensive resuscitation
KW  - hypovolemic resuscitation
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Objective: To review the rationale behind and experiences with traditional and newly evolving concepts of fluid therapy in the traumatized patient, and to review conventional and novel fluid preparations for use in trauma resuscitation. Data sources: Human and veterinary clinical and research studies. Human data synthesis: Current treatment guidelines recommend aggressive fluid resuscitation with lactated ringers solution (LRS) or saline as optimum management of hemorrhagic shock in trauma, regardless of whether bleeding is controlled or not. The rationale behind this strategy is to restore intravascular volume as rapidly as possible to ensure adequate vital organ perfusion. Recently, this strategy has been challenged, especially in patients with uncontrolled hemorrhage, as neither laboratory evidence nor clinical trials support this practice. Current research indicates that vigorous fluid infusion may exacerbate bleeding and cause severe hemodilution, both impairing resuscitation outcome. As a result, a new line of thinking is emerging that balances the risks and benefits of intravenous volume infusion by offering the clinician alternative treatment strategies and emphasizes continuous endpoint-oriented monitoring. ?Hypotensive? or ?hypovolemic? resuscitation techniques as well as initial volume replacement with fluids other than LRS or saline (e.g., hypertonic saline [HTS], HTS with dextran 70 [HTS-D]) have been introduced in human medical practice as additional options for treatment of victims of trauma under certain circumstances. Clinical studies evaluating the use of hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (HBOCs) in the trauma setting are underway and may soon lead to an expansion of the fluid arsenal available to the clinician for treatment of trauma patients. Veterinary data synthesis: Based on available animal data, neither strict guidelines nor a clear fluid preference for resuscitation of traumatic shock have been defined. Although systematic clinical trials are missing, combinations of crystalloid and colloid (natural or artificial) appear to be as effective for resuscitation as crystalloid alone. Judicious use of an HBOC (e.g., Oxyglobin?) as a substitute for blood/red blood cells may be recommended in situations where whole blood or pRBCs are not or not yet available. Conclusions: The search for optimal methods of fluid resuscitation in trauma is ongoing. At this point the best solution is a differentiated approach to fluid therapy, one that tailors type and volume of resuscitation solution(s) used to the type and severity of injury in an individual patient and uses monitoring of perfusion and oxygenation parameters to guide resuscitation. Crystalloid fluids are effective for resuscitation but may need to be combined with or replaced by colloidal fluids in certain clinical situations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mateus, L
AU  - Da Costa, L Lopes
AU  - Carvalho, H
AU  - Serra, P
AU  - Robalo Silva, J
TI  - Blood and Intrauterine Leukocyte Profile and Function in Dairy Cows that Spontaneously Recovered from Postpartum Endometritis
JO  - Reproduction in Domestic Animals
VL  - 37
IS  - 3
SN  - 0936-6768
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1439-0531.2002.00351.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1439-0531.2002.00351.x
SP  - 176
EP  - 180
PY  - 2002
AB  - Contents The profile and function of blood and uterine leukocytes were evaluated in 14 dairy cows that spontaneously recovered from postpartum endometritis (mild, n=6 and heavy, n=8; general health not affected). From a minimum of 2 weeks before parturition until 6 weeks postpartum, blood samples were obtained twice weekly for leukocyte counts and leukogram determination and once weekly for flow cytometry assessment of polimorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) phagocytic capacity and oxidative burst activity. Uterine fluid-stained smears, obtained twice weekly from parturition until fluid was present in the uterus, were used for determination of the percentage of PMN, of phagocytizing PMN (phago-PMN) and of the mean number of phagocyted bacteria per phagocytizing PMN (phagocytic index; PI). Uterine swabs were obtained twice weekly from parturition until 35?days postpartum for bacteriological examination. The time of endometritis diagnosis was similar in cows with mild or heavy endometritis but the latter cows had a significantly longer persistence of the infection and of the isolation of Gram-negative anaerobes from the uterus. However, the effect of group (mild versus heavy) was not significant for all the blood and uterine parameters analysed. The effect of sampling day (within group effect) was significant (p<0.01 to p<0.00001) for all parameters, except for the blood monocyte count and the blood PMN phagocytic capacity, in which only a tendency for significance was observed (p<0.1). The effect of the interaction group???sampling day was significant only for the blood monocyte count. The phago-PMN and the PI were significantly correlated (r=0.70, p<0.001). A significant correlation was also observed between the uterine fluid phago-PMN and the blood PMN oxidative burst activity (r=?0.41, p<0.05). At the spontaneous recovery, the blood PMN oxidative burst activity was significantly higher (p<0.05) and the percentage of intrauterine phago-PMN and the PI were significantly lower (p<0.001 and p<0.01, respectively) than at diagnosis of endometritis. These results suggest that a decrease in blood PMN oxidative burst activity until the first week postpartum could be associated with an increased susceptibility to early postpartum endometritis. The later increase in this parameter as well as the increase in the intrauterine fluid phago-PMN and PI, might favour the spontaneous resolution of endometritis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Osama Gaber, A.
AU  - Mulgaonkar, Shamkant
AU  - Kahan, Barry D.
AU  - Steve Woodle, E.
AU  - Alloway, Rita
AU  - Bajjoka, Iman
AU  - Jensik, Stephen
AU  - Klintmalm, Goran B.
AU  - Patton, Pamela R.
AU  - Wiseman, Alexander
AU  - Lipshutz, Gerald
AU  - Kupiec-Weglinski, Jerzy
AU  - Gaber, Lilian W.
AU  - Katz, Eliezer
AU  - Irish, William
AU  - Squiers, Elizabeth C.
AU  - Hemmerich, Stefan
TI  - YSPSL (rPSGL-Ig) for improvement of early renal allograft function: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center Phase IIa study1,2,3
JO  - Clinical Transplantation
VL  - 25
IS  - 4
SN  - 0902-0063
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-0012.2010.01295.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1399-0012.2010.01295.x
SP  - 523
EP  - 533
KW  - kidney transplant
KW  - ischemia reperfusion injury
KW  - clinical trial
KW  - selectins
PY  - 2011
AB  - Gaber AO, Mulgaonkar S, Kahan BD, Woodle ES, Alloway R, Bajjoka I, Jensik S, Klintmalm GB, Patton PR, Wiseman A, Lipshutz G, Kupiec-Weglinski J, Gaber LW, Katz E, Irish W, Squiers EC, Hemmerich S. YSPSL (rPSGL-Ig) for improvement of early renal allograft function: A double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center Phase IIa study. ?Clin Transplant 2011: 25: 523?533. ? 2010 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Abstract:? Introduction:? Recombinant P-selectin glycoprotein ligand IgG fusion protein, rPSGL-Ig (YSPSL), a fusion protein of human P-selectin ligand and IgG1-Fc, blocks leukocyte adhesion and protects against ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI) in animal models. Patients and Methods:? This randomized 15-center, double-blind, 59-patient Ph2a study assessed YSPSL?s safety in recipients of deceased-donor kidney allografts and its potential efficacy in improving early graft function. Two doses and two dosing modalities were evaluated. Results:? No drug-specific toxicities or increased adverse event rates were noted. Two YSPSL-treated patients died of causes determined as unrelated to study drug. YSPSL did not reduce the incidence of dialysis within the first week post-transplant (41% in treated vs. 20% in placebo patients). Renal function endpoints scored at post-operative days 1 & 2 were also not impacted by YSPSL. However, at day 5, the fraction of patients with serum creatinine above 6?mg/dL was lower in the YSPSL vs. placebo group (26% vs. 55%, p?=?0.043). Large variations in the dialysis-delayed graft function (DGF) rates were observed between centers, independently of treatment assignment, indicating subjectivity of this endpoint. Conclusion:? In this first Ph2a study in kidney transplantation, YSPSL was safe but did not impact the dialysis-DGF rate. Further studies with more objective efficacy endpoints are required to define the impact of YSPSL on early renal allograft function.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gautam, N
AU  - Hedqvist, P
AU  - Lindbom, L
TI  - Kinetics of leukocyte-induced changes in endothelial barrier function
JO  - British Journal of Pharmacology
VL  - 125
IS  - 5
SN  - 0007-1188
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.bjp.0702186
DO  - doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0702186
SP  - 1109
EP  - 1114
KW  - Inflammation
KW  - leukocyte extravasation
KW  - endothelial cells
KW  - vascular permeability
KW  - plasma leakage
PY  - 1998
AB  - 1 Extravasation of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and associated plasma leakage are key events in the inflammatory process. The kinetics of PMN-induced changes in endothelial barrier function were studied by means of confluent monolayers of bovine aorta or human umbilical vein endothelial cells (EC), cultured on permeable membranes and mounted in a two-compartment diffusion chamber. The model permitted continuous measurement of transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER), and analysis of protein efflux and PMN migration across the EC monolayer. 2 Transendothelial chemotactic stimulation (fMLP or LTB4) of PMN resting on EC in the upper compartment induced a prompt decline in TEER, followed by an increase in protein flux and transmigration of PMN. Adding the chemoattractant together with PMN in the upper compartment provoked adhesion of PMN, fall in TEER and increase in protein permeability, but no transmigration of PMN, whereas inhibition of PMN adhesion to EC by pretreatment with anti-CD18 mAb prevented all responses to chemotactic stimulation. 3 Chemoattractant-induced adhesion of PMN to the EC monolayer induced a rapid rise in EC cytosolic free Ca2+, similar to that obtained by direct stimulation of EC with histamine, indicating an active response of EC to PMN activation and adhesion. 4 In summary, continuous recording of transendothelial electrical resistance in the in vitro model described permits rapid and sensitive analysis of leukocyte activation-induced effects on EC barrier function. The kinetics and specificity of the EC and PMN responses to chemoattractant stimulation suggest that activated PMN, via adhesion-dependent events, have a direct effect on EC junctional integrity independent of whether transmigration occurs or not. British Journal of Pharmacology (1998) 125, 1109?1114; doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0702186
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Liese, Jan
AU  - Rooijakkers, Suzan H. M.
AU  - van Strijp, Jos A. G.
AU  - Novick, Richard P.
AU  - Dustin, Michael L.
TI  - Intravital two-photon microscopy of host–pathogen interactions in a mouse model of Staphylococcus aureus skin abscess formation
JO  - Cellular Microbiology
JA  - Cell Microbiol
VL  - 15
IS  - 6
SN  - 1462-5814
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cmi.12085
DO  - doi:10.1111/cmi.12085
SP  - 891
EP  - 909
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary Staphylococcus (S.) aureus is a frequent cause of severe skin infections. The ability to control the infection is largely dependent on the rapid recruitment of neutrophils (PMN). To gain more insight into the dynamics of PMN migration and host?pathogen interactions in vivo, we used intravital two-photon (2-P) microscopy to visualize S.?aureus skin infections in the mouse. Reporter S.?aureus strains expressing fluorescent proteins were developed, which allowed for detection of the bacteria in vivo. By employing LysM-EGFP mice to visualize PMN, we observed the rapid appearance of PMN in the extravascular space of the dermis and their directed movement towards the focus of infection, which led to the delineation of an abscess within 1 day. Moreover, tracking of transferred labelled bone-marrow neutrophils showed that PMN localization to the site of infection is dependent on the presence of G-protein-coupled receptors on the PMN, whereas Interleukin-1 receptor was required on host cells other than PMN. Furthermore, the S.?aureus complement inhibitor Ecb could block PMN accumulation at thesite of infection. Our results establish that 2-P microscopy is a powerful tool to investigate the orchestration of the immune cells, S.?aureus location and gene expression in vivo on a single cell level.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Qian, Li-Wu
AU  - Fourcaudot, Andrea B.
AU  - Yamane, Kazuyoshi
AU  - You, Tao
AU  - Chan, Rodney K.
AU  - Leung, Kai P.
TI  - Exacerbated and prolonged inflammation impairs wound healing and increases scarring
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
JA  - Wound Rep and Reg
VL  - 24
IS  - 1
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/wrr.12381
DO  - doi:10.1111/wrr.12381
SP  - 26
EP  - 34
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Altered inflammation in the early stage has long been assumed to affect subsequent steps of the repair process that could influence proper wound healing and remodeling. However, the lack of explicit experimental data makes the connection between dysregulated wound inflammation and poor wound healing elusive. To bridge this gap, we used the established rabbit ear hypertrophic scar model for studying the causal effect of dysregulated inflammation. We induced an exacerbated and prolonged inflammatory state in these wounds with the combination of trauma-related stimulators of pathogen-associated molecular patterns from heat-killed Pseudomonas aeruginosa and damage-associated molecular patterns from a dermal homogenate. In stimulated wounds, a heightened and lengthened inflammation was observed based on quantitative measurements of IL-6 expression, tissue polymorphonuclear leukocytes infiltration, and tissue myeloperoxidase activity. Along with the high level of inflammation, wound healing parameters (epithelial gap and others) at postoperative day 7 and 16 were significantly altered in stimulated wounds compared to unstimulated controls. By postoperative day 35, scar elevation of stimulated wounds was higher than that of control wounds (scar elevation index: 1.90 vs. 1.39, p?<?0.01). Moreover, treatment of these inflamed wounds with Indomethacin (at concentrations of 0.01, 0.1, and 0.4%) reduced scar elevation but with adverse effects of delayed wound closure and increased cartilage hypertrophy. In summary, successful establishment of this inflamed wound model provides a platform to understand these detrimental aspects of unchecked inflammation and to further test agents that can modulate local inflammation to improve wound outcomes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Elsbach, Peter
TI  - The bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein (BPI) in antibacterial host defense
JO  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
JA  - J Leukoc Biol
VL  - 64
IS  - 1
SN  - 0741-5400
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jlb.64.1.14
DO  - doi:10.1002/jlb.64.1.14
SP  - 14
EP  - 18
KW  - endogenous antibiotics
KW  - clinical application
KW  - structure/function relations
KW  - LPS-binding protein
PY  - 1998
AB  - Abstract The bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein (BPI) is a 456-residue cationic protein produced only by precursors of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and is stored in the primary granules of these cells. The potent (nM) cytotoxicity of BPI is limited to gram-negative bacteria (GNB), reflecting the high affinity (<10 nM) of BPI for bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS). The biological effects of isolated BPI are linked to complex formation with LPS. Binding of BPI to live bacteria via LPS causes immediate growth arrest. Actual killing coincides with later damage to the inner membrane. Complex formation of BPI with cell-asssociated or cell-free LPS inhibits all LPS-induced host cell responses. BPI-blocking antibodies abolish the potent activity of whole PMN lysates and inflammatory fluids against BPI-sensitive GNB. The antibacterial and the anti-endotoxin activities of BPI are fully expressed by the amino terminal half of the molecule. These properties of BPI have prompted preclinical and subsequent clinical testing of recombinant amino-terminal fragments of BPI. In animals, human BPI protein products protect against lethal injections of isolated LPS and inocula of GNB. Phase I trials in healthy human volunteers and multiple Phase I/II clinical trials have been completed or are in progress (severe pediatric meningococcemia, hemorrhagic trauma, partial hepatectomy, severe peritoneal infections, and cystic fibrosis) and two phase III trials (meningococcemia and hemorrhagic trauma) have been initiated. In none of >900 normal and severely ill individuals have issues of safety or immunogenicity been encountered. Preliminary evidence points to overall benefit in BPI-treated patients. These results suggest that BPI may have a place in the treatment of life-threatening infections and conditions associated with bacteremia and endotoxemia. J. Leukoc. Biol. 64: 14?18; 1998.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Danikas, D. D.
AU  - Karakantza, M.
AU  - Theodorou, G. L.
AU  - Sakellaropoulos, G. C.
AU  - Gogos, C. A.
TI  - Prognostic value of phagocytic activity of neutrophils and monocytes in sepsis. Correlation to CD64 and CD14 antigen expression
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
VL  - 154
IS  - 1
SN  - 0009-9104
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2249.2008.03737.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2249.2008.03737.x
SP  - 87
EP  - 97
KW  - flow cytometry/FACS
KW  - infections
KW  - neutrophils
KW  - phagocytosis
KW  - phenotype/cell markers
PY  - 2008
AB  - Summary The role of the phagocytic function of monocytes and neutrophils in sepsis has been poorly investigated. The present study evaluated the impact of the phagocytic activity of neutrophils and monocytes on the outcome of patients with severe sepsis. Thirty-one patients and 30 healthy individuals were enrolled in the study. The phagocytic activity of monocytes and neutrophils was evaluated during 24?h after admission and the results were correlated to the expression of CD64 on neutrophils and monocytes, CD14 antigen on monocytes, the Simplified Acute Physiology Score II and the patients' survival. A reduced phagocytic activity of neutrophils during the first 24?h after admission was a negative predictor for survival. Increased expression of CD64 antigen on polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs) and monocytes was favourably correlated to the patients' survival. In multivariate analysis the phagocytic activity of PMNs was the only independent predictor factor for survival. Patients with PMN phagocytic activity <37% had lower expression of CD64 on monocytes and PMNs and worse outcome, while those with phagocytic activity >37% had higher expression of CD64 on monocytes and PMNs and better outcome. Reduced phagocytic activity of neutrophils may represent a state of neutrophil inactivation similar to that previously described for monocytes during the compensatory anti-inflammatory response.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yu, Hong-Ren
AU  - Kuo, Ho-Chang
AU  - Huang, Li-Tung
AU  - Chen, Chih-Cheng
AU  - Tain, You-Lin
AU  - Sheen, Jiunn-Ming
AU  - Tiao, Mao-Meng
AU  - Huang, Hsin-Chun
AU  - Yang, Kuender D.
AU  - Ou, Chia-Yo
AU  - Hsu, Te-Yao
TI  - l-Arginine modulates neonatal lymphocyte proliferation through an interleukin-2 independent pathway
JO  - Immunology
JA  - Immunology
VL  - 143
IS  - 2
SN  - 0019-2805
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imm.12300
DO  - doi:10.1111/imm.12300
SP  - 184
EP  - 192
KW  - arginase
KW  - interleukin-2
KW  - l-arginine
KW  - lymphocyte proliferation
KW  - neonate
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary In cases of arginine depletion, lymphocyte proliferation, cytokine production and CD3? chain expression are all diminished. In addition to myeloid suppressor cells, polymorphonuclear cells (PMN) also exert T-cell immune suppressive effects through arginase-induced l-arginine depletion, especially during pregnancy. In this study, we investigated how arginase/l-arginine modulates neonatal lymphocyte proliferation. Results showed that the neonatal plasma l-arginine level was lower than in adults (48·1 ± 11·3 versus 86·5 ± 14·6 ?m; P = 0·003). Neonatal PMN had a greater abundance of arginase I protein than adult PMN. Both transcriptional regulation and post-transcriptional regulation were responsible for the higher arginase I expression of neonatal PMN. Exogenous l-arginine enhanced neonate lymphocyte proliferation but not that of adult cells. The RNA-binding protein HuR was important but was not the only modulation factor in l-arginine-regulated neonatal T-cell proliferation. l-Arginine-mediated neonatal lymphocyte proliferation could not be blocked by interleukin-2 receptor blocking antibodies. These results suggest that the altered arginase/l-arginine cascade may be one of the mechanisms that contribute to altered neonatal immune responses. Exogenous l-arginine could enhance neonate lymphocyte proliferation through an interleukin-2-independent pathway.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sparrow, R.L.
AU  - Patton, K.A.
TI  - Supernatant from stored red blood cell primes inflammatory cells: influence of prestorage white cell reduction
JO  - Transfusion
VL  - 44
IS  - 5
SN  - 0041-1132
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1537-2995.2004.03113.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1537-2995.2004.03113.x
SP  - 722
EP  - 730
PY  - 2004
AB  - BACKGROUND: The contribution of RBC transfusion to adverse patient outcomes is controversial. There is conflicting clinical data and limited biologic data that provide an underpinning biologic rationale for any adverse impacts from RBC transfusion. This study used in-vitro measures of PMN stimulation to determine the ability of supernatant from RBCs to stimulate allogeneic WBCs and to determine the influence of residual donor WBCs and storage time on the proinflammatory potential of RBCs. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Three types of RBCs were assessed: standard non-WBC-reduced RBCs (S-RBCs), buffy coat-poor RBCs (BCP-RBCs), and prestorage WBC-filtered RBC (LF-RBCs). Supernatant was collected weekly up to Day 42 of storage. PMN priming by supernatant from RBCs was determined by three methods: induction of CD11b expression on PMNs, induction of IL-8 release from PMNs, and the chemotactic effect of supernatant on PMNs. RESULTS: Supernatant from S-RBCs induced the expression of CD11b on PMNs, primed PMNs to release IL-8, and was chemotactic for PMNs. The magnitude of this PMN-priming progressively amplified with storage time. In contrast, supernatant from BCP-RBCs or LF-RBCs did not significantly prime PMNs. The PMN-priming effect of supernatant from RBCs correlated more closely with the level of MNCs in the RBCs than PMN content. CONCLUSION: Supernatant from stored S-RBCs prime unstimulated allogeneic PMNs in vitro. Prestorage buffy-coat WBC reduction was as effective as WBC depletion in abrogating this proinflammatory response elicited by supernatants from RBCs. The clinical consequences, if any, of these findings for transfusion recipients are unknown.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kong, Sung-Eun
AU  - Blennerhassett, Lewis R.
AU  - Heel, Kathryn A.
AU  - McCauley, Rosalie D.
AU  - Hall, John C.
TI  - ISCHAEMIA-REPERFUSION INJURY TO THE INTESTINE
JO  - Australian and New Zealand Journal of Surgery
VL  - 68
IS  - 8
SN  - 0004-8682
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.1998.tb02099.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.1998.tb02099.x
SP  - 554
EP  - 561
KW  - ischaemia
KW  - polymorphonuclear neutrophils
KW  - reperfusion
KW  - small intestine
PY  - 1998
AB  - Ischaemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is of obvious relevance in situations where there is an interruption of blood supply to the gut, as in vascular surgery, or in the construction of free intestinal grafts. It is now appreciated that IRI also underlies the gut dysfunction that occurs in early shock, sepsis, and trauma. The events that occur during IRI are complex. However, recent advances in cellular biology have started to unravel these underlying processes. The aim of this review is to provide an outline of current knowledge on the mechanisms and consequences of IRI. Initially, IRI appears to be mediated by reactive oxygen metabolites and, at a later stage, by the priming and activation of polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN). Ischaemia-reperfusion injury can diminish the barrier function of the gut, and can promote an increase in the leakage of molecules (intestinal permeability) or the passage of microbes across the wall of the bowel (bacterial trans-location). Ischaemia-reperfusion injury to the gut can result in the generation of molecules that may also harm distant tissues.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Opdahl, H.
AU  - Nicolaysen, G.
AU  - Benestad, H. B.
TI  - Effects of zymosan-activated plasma and phorbol myristate acetate on isolated, perfused rabbit lungs
JO  - Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica
VL  - 31
IS  - 6
SN  - 0001-5172
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-6576.1987.tb02610.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1399-6576.1987.tb02610.x
SP  - 499
EP  - 505
KW  - Complement
KW  - exsanguination
KW  - granulocytes
KW  - isolated lungs
KW  - lymphocytes
KW  - phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)
KW  - vascular permeability
KW  - vascular resistance
KW  - zymosan activated plasma (ZAP)
PY  - 1987
AB  - The effects of complement activation on pulmonary vascular permeability are disputed. In rabbit lungs perfused with autologous blood, zymosan activated plasma (ZAP) induced a moderate increase in pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR), but did not detectably change the vascular permeability within 2 h. The stronger neutrophil granulocyte (PMN) activator, phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), usually gave larger PVR increases and also increased pulmonary vascular permeability. Lungs from neutropenic animals, similarly perfused and given PMA, showed unchanged PVR reactions but had no apparent increase in vascular permeability. Lungs perfused with cell-free medium and given PMA displayed modest PVR increases, and no measurable permeability change. The lung preparatory procedure itself markedly influenced leukocyte circulation. Exsanguination of lung donors decreased the concentration of circulating PMN significantly, and they virtually disappeared from the perfusate within minutes after start of lung perfusion. PMN-mediated effects must therefore have been caused by cells already sequestered in the lungs. We conclude that ZAP docs not induce an increased pulmonary vascular permeability in isolated, perfused rabbit lungs, in contrast to PMA. The permeability effects of PMA appear to be PMN dependent.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ekdahl, Kristina N.
AU  - Teramura, Yuji
AU  - Hamad, Osama A.
AU  - Asif, Sana
AU  - Duehrkop, Claudia
AU  - Fromell, Karin
AU  - Gustafson, Elisabet
AU  - Hong, Jaan
AU  - Kozarcanin, Huda
AU  - Magnusson, Peetra U.
AU  - Huber-Lang, Markus
AU  - Garred, Peter
AU  - Nilsson, Bo
TI  - Dangerous liaisons: complement, coagulation, and kallikrein/kinin cross-talk act as a linchpin in the events leading to thromboinflammation
JO  - Immunological Reviews
JA  - Immunol Rev
VL  - 274
IS  - 1
SN  - 0105-2896
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imr.12471
DO  - doi:10.1111/imr.12471
SP  - 245
EP  - 269
KW  - coagulation
KW  - complement system
KW  - contact activation/kallikrein system
KW  - innate immunity
KW  - platelets
KW  - thromboinflammation
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Innate immunity is fundamental to our defense against microorganisms. Physiologically, the intravascular innate immune system acts as a purging system that identifies and removes foreign substances leading to thromboinflammatory responses, tissue remodeling, and repair. It is also a key contributor to the adverse effects observed in many diseases and therapies involving biomaterials and therapeutic cells/organs. The intravascular innate immune system consists of the cascade systems of the blood (the complement, contact, coagulation, and fibrinolytic systems), the blood cells (polymorphonuclear cells, monocytes, platelets), and the endothelial cell lining of the vessels. Activation of the intravascular innate immune system in vivo leads to thromboinflammation that can be activated by several of the system's pathways and that initiates repair after tissue damage and leads to adverse reactions in several disorders and treatment modalities. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge in the field and discuss the obstacles that exist in order to study the cross-talk between the components of the intravascular innate immune system. These include the use of purified in vitro systems, animal models and various types of anticoagulants. In order to avoid some of these obstacles we have developed specialized human whole blood models that allow investigation of the cross-talk between the various cascade systems and the blood cells. We in particular stress that platelets are involved in these interactions and that the lectin pathway of the complement system is an emerging part of innate immunity that interacts with the contact/coagulation system. Understanding the resulting thromboinflammation will allow development of new therapeutic modalities.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Strauss, Ronald
TI  - Granulocyte Transfusion: Best Practice Collection & Transfusion
JO  - Transfusion Medicine
VL  - 15
IS  - 1
SN  - 0958-7578
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-3148.2005.00554d.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-3148.2005.00554d.x
SP  - 69
EP  - 82
PY  - 2005
AB  - Serious and repeated infections with bacteria, yeast, and fungus continue to be a consequence of severe neutropenia. Previous attempts to prevent and/or treat these infections in severely neutropenic patients through use of neutrophil (PMN) transfusions achieved only modest success ? largely due to the collection and transfusion of relatively small numbers of PMNs. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) has revolutionized the collection of PMNs for transfusion because stimulation of donors with G-CSF plus corticosteroids before leukapheresis permits collection of 6?8???10 to the 10 PMNs per each transfusion. Although questions and concerns have been raised about the biology and potential toxicity of giving G-CSF?+?steroids to normal allogeneic donors, these issues have questionable clinical significance. Properly controlled, clinical trials have not been performed to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of PMN transfusions collected from donors stimulated with G-CSF?+?steroids. Therefore, despite the somewhat compelling ?logic? that transfusing very high numbers of PMNs should be helpful in treating serious infections in neutropenic patients, this practice can not be justified at this time. Indeed, published reports of individual patients and small series of patients have given mixed results (i.e., successes and failures). Hence, the need for properly-designed clinical trails.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sima, Corneliu
AU  - Viniegra, Ana
AU  - Glogauer, Michael
TI  - Macrophage immunomodulation in chronic osteolytic diseases—the case of periodontitis
JO  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
JA  - J Leukoc Biol
VL  - 105
IS  - 3
SN  - 0741-5400
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/JLB.1RU0818-310R
DO  - doi:10.1002/JLB.1RU0818-310R
SP  - 473
EP  - 487
KW  - bone
KW  - macrophage
KW  - osteoimmunology
KW  - osteolysis
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Periodontitis (PD) is a chronic osteolytic disease that shares pathogenic inflammatory features with other conditions associated with nonresolving inflammation. A hallmark of PD is inflammation-mediated alveolar bone loss. Myeloid cells, in particular polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) and macrophages (Mac), are essential players in PD by control of gingival biofilm pathogenicity, activation of adaptive immunity, as well as nonresolving inflammation and collateral tissue damage. Despite mounting evidence of significant innate immune implications to PD progression and healing after therapy, myeloid cell markers and targets for immune modulation have not been validated for clinical use. The remarkable plasticity of monocytes/Mac in response to local activation factors enables these cells to play central roles in inflammation and restoration of tissue homeostasis and provides opportunities for biomarker and therapeutic target discovery for management of chronic inflammatory conditions, including osteolytic diseases such as PD and arthritis. Along a wide spectrum of activation states ranging from proinflammatory to pro-resolving, Macs respond to environmental changes in a site-specific manner in virtually all tissues. This review summarizes the existing evidence on Mac immunomodulation therapies for osteolytic diseases in the broader context of conditions associated with nonresolving inflammation, and discusses osteoimmune implications of Macs in PD.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vaughan, A. G.
AU  - Vrahopoulos, T. P.
AU  - Joachim, F.
AU  - Sati, K.
AU  - Barber, P.
AU  - Newman, H. N.
TI  - A case report of chronic neutropenia: clinical and ultrastructural findings
JO  - Journal of Clinical Periodontology
VL  - 17
IS  - 7
SN  - 0303-6979
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-051X.1990.tb02342.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-051X.1990.tb02342.x
SP  - 435
EP  - 445
KW  - chronic neutropenia
KW  - dental plaque
KW  - electron microscopy
KW  - neutrophils
KW  - plasma cells
KW  - plaque antimicrobials
KW  - restorative dentistry
PY  - 1990
AB  - Abstract. This case report of severe periodontitis concerns a young male patient with chronic idiopathic neutropenia seen between 1981 and 1983 by the School of Dental Medicine of Geneva and from 1984 to 1988 by the Eastman Dental Hospital of London. The patient was maintained by intermittent systemic antibiotics, subgingival chlorhexidine irrigation, conventional debridement, brushing, and wire-mesh and composite splinting of loose teeth. After leaving school, at the patient's express wish, the extreme downhill pattern of the periodontitis resulted in removal of affected teeth and overdenture construction. The extracted teeth and associated soft tissues were examined for relevant plaque and host response features. The intact morphotypes associated with the advancing front of the lesion were invariably Gram-negative or positive coccoid cells, or less commonly short rods, as in all documented forms of periodotitis. Connective tissue destruction was associated with a leucocyte accumulation comprising mainly polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) and plasma cells. Both were observed degenerated more deeply than in routine adult periodontitis, including PMN lysosome loss and lymphocyte maturation within peripheral blood vessels. Only in one instance, one part of the superficial connective tissue of one block contained bacteria. It was concluded that the features of plaque and the lesion suggest a typical first line of defence response as in other forms of periodontitis. From the consideration of the 10 years clinical history of the patient, it is clear that non-surgical management is possible even in extreme cases, without any compromise of the patient's oral or systemic health, and in accord with the patient's wishes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Standiford, Theodore J.
AU  - Kunkel, Steven L.
AU  - Greenberger, Marc J.
AU  - Laichalk, Lauri L.
AU  - Strieter, Robert M.
TI  - Expression and regulation of chemokines in bacterial pneumonia
JO  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
JA  - J Leukoc Biol
VL  - 59
IS  - 1
SN  - 0741-5400
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jlb.59.1.24
DO  - doi:10.1002/jlb.59.1.24
SP  - 24
EP  - 28
KW  - macrophage inflammatory protein 2
KW  - macrophage inflammatory protein 1α
KW  - interleukin-10
KW  - cytokines
KW  - Klebsiella
KW  - pneumonia
KW  - murine
PY  - 1996
AB  - Abstract Effective host defense against bacterial invasion is characterized by the vigorous recruitment and activation of inflammatory cells, which is dependent on the coordinated expression of both pro-and anti-inflammatory cytokines. In this review, we present evidence indicating that both C-X-C and C-C chemokines are integral components of antibacterial host defense. Specifically, in vitro studies indicate that C-X-C chemokines [interleukin-8 (IL-8) and macrophage inflammatory protein 2 (MIP-2)] and the C-C chemokine macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1α) augment the ability of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) and alveolar macrophages, respectively, to phagocytose and kill Escherichia coli. In addition, the intratracheal instillation of Klebsiella pneumoniae in CD-I mice results in time-dependent production of MIP-2 and MIP-1α, and the inhibition of MIP-2 bioactivity in vivo results in decreases in lung PMN influx, impaired bacterial clearance, and early mortality. Finally, the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 (IL-10) is also expressed within the lung during the evolution of Klebsiella pneumonia, and neutralization of IL-10 in vivo results in enhanced proinflammatory cytokine production, bacterial clearance, and increases in both short- and long-term survival. In conclusion, our studies indicate that specific chemokines are important mediators of leukocyte recruitment and/or activation in bacterial pneumonia and that the expression of these chemokines is regulated by endogenously produced IL-10.
ER  - 
