
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pickles, K.J.
AU  - Madigan, J.E.
AU  - Torske, S.
AU  - Aleman, M.R.
TI  - Use of Squeeze-Induced Somnolence for Routine Plasma Administration in Healthy Neonatal Foals
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 46
IS  - S47
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12323_6
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12323_6
SP  - 4
EP  - 4
PY  - 2014
AB  - Reasons for performing study A nonchemical method of restraint to facilitate neonatal foal handling and minimally invasive procedures would be highly useful. Objectives To investigate squeeze-induced somnolence for providing adequate restraint of healthy neonatal foals for the purpose of plasma administration. Study design Prospective clinical study. Methods Squeeze-induced somnolence of neonatal foals was performed by use of a soft rope restraint as previously described [1] to allow intravenous catheterisation and plasma administration. Physiological and clinical parameters were monitored pre-, during and post squeeze-induced somnolence. Results Squeeze-induced somnolence and plasma administration was performed on 14 foals within the first day of life without any adverse effects. Mean time to recumbency during squeeze restraint was 53?s, mean time to stand and mean time to nurse from dam following release of restraint were 46?s and 163?s, respectively. Over 50% of foals gave some reaction to subcutaneous injection of local anaesthetic but only one foal reacted strongly. The restraint technique was performed without any difficulty in 8/14 foals, 5/14 foals became less somnolent latterly in the procedure (around 17?18?min) and one foal never became fully somnolent. Conclusions Squeeze-induced somnolence provides adequate restraint for plasma administration, without the need for sedation, in the majority of neonatal foals. Squeeze-induced somnolence can be used to allow nonchemical restraint of neonatal foals for routine procedures. Further refinement of the technique is required to maximise its potential usefulness. Ethical animal research:?The study was approved by the University of California Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Foals were included in the study with informed owner consent. Sources of funding:?Private anonymous donation. Competing interests:?None.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts presented at the Association of Veterinary Anaesthetists Spring meeting, 24th–25th April 2014, Nottingham, UK
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 41
IS  - 6
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12214
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12214
SP  - A40
EP  - A66
PY  - 2014
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Furukawa, Toshi A.
AU  - Kawakami, Norito
AU  - Saitoh, Mari
AU  - Ono, Yutaka
AU  - Nakane, Yoshibumi
AU  - Nakamura, Yosikazu
AU  - Tachimori, Hisateru
AU  - Iwata, Noboru
AU  - Uda, Hidenori
AU  - Nakane, Hideyuki
AU  - Watanabe, Makoto
AU  - Naganuma, Yoichi
AU  - Hata, Yukihiro
AU  - Kobayashi, Masayo
AU  - Miyake, Yuko
AU  - Takeshima, Tadashi
AU  - Kikkawa, Takehiko
TI  - The performance of the Japanese version of the K6 and K10 in the World Mental Health Survey Japan
JO  - International Journal of Methods in Psychiatric Research
JA  - Int. J. Methods Psychiatr. Res.
VL  - 17
IS  - 3
SN  - 1049-8931
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mpr.257
DO  - doi:10.1002/mpr.257
SP  - 152
EP  - 158
KW  - general psychological distress
KW  - screening instrument
KW  - ROC curve
KW  - stratum-specific likelihood ratio
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Two new screening scales for psychological distress, the K6 and K10, have been developed using the item response theory and shown to outperform existing screeners in English. We developed their Japanese versions using the standard backtranslaton method and included them in the World Mental Health Survey Japan (WMH-J), which is a psychiatric epidemiologic study conducted in seven communities across Japan with 2436 participants. The WMH-J used the WMH Survey Initiative version of the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI) to assess the 30-day Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ? Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). Performance of the two screening scales in detecting DSM-IV mood and anxiety disorders, as assessed by the areas under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUCs), was excellent, with values as high as 0.94 (95% confidence interval = 0.88 to 0.99) for K6 and 0.94 (0.88 to 0.995) for K10. Stratum-specific likelihood ratios (SSLRs), which express screening test characteristics and can be used to produce individual-level predicted probabilities of being a case from screening scale scores and pretest probabilities in other samples, were strikingly similar between the Japanese and the original versions. The Japanese versions of the K6 and K10 thus demonstrated screening performances essentially equivalent to those of the original English versions. Copyright ? 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tortelli, R.
AU  - Ruggieri, M.
AU  - Cortese, R.
AU  - D'Errico, E.
AU  - Capozzo, R.
AU  - Leo, A.
AU  - Mastrapasqua, M.
AU  - Zoccolella, S.
AU  - Leante, R.
AU  - Livrea, P.
AU  - Logroscino, G.
AU  - Simone, I. L.
TI  - Elevated cerebrospinal fluid neurofilament light levels in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a possible marker of disease severity and progression
JO  - European Journal of Neurology
JA  - Eur J Neurol
VL  - 19
IS  - 12
SN  - 1351-5101
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-1331.2012.03777.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1468-1331.2012.03777.x
SP  - 1561
EP  - 1567
KW  - amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - cerebrospinal fluid
KW  - neurofilament light chain
KW  - prognosis
PY  - 2012
AB  - Background To date there are no biomarkers with proven reliability as a measure of disease burden in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The aim of our study is to assess the neurofilament light chain (NFL) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples as a measure of disease activity and progression in ALS. Methods Thirty-seven consecutive patients with ALS, 25 with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy and 21 with other neurodegenerative diseases were evaluated. CSF NFL levels were assayed by two-site solid-phase sandwich ELISA. In patients with ALS, neurological status was assessed by the revised ALS Functional Rating Scale (ALSFRS-r) and the Medical Research Council scale, and the progression of the disease was evaluated using the ?diagnostic delay? and the ?progression rate?. Results Cerebrospinal fluid NFL levels were higher in ALS cases than in controls (P < 0.0001). Using receiver operating curve analysis, an optimal NFL cut-off of 1981 ng/l discriminated between patients with ALS and neurological controls, with a sensitivity of 78.4% and specificity of 72.5%. Multivariate logistic regression confirmed the association between CSF NFL levels and the presence of ALS (age and sex adjusted odds ratio for ALS 8.9; 95% CI 3.1?25.8; P < 0.0001). In ALS, CSF NFL negatively correlated with the diagnostic delay (P < 0.0001) and the ALSFRS-r (P = 0.014) and positively with the progression rate (P < 0.0001). Conclusions High CSF NFL levels were found in patients with ALS, reflecting the burden of neurodegeneration. The significant relation between CSF NFL levels and disease progression suggests that NFL may be a useful marker of disease activity and progression in ALS.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Roddey, Toni S.
AU  - Olsen, Sharon L.
AU  - Cook, Karon F.
AU  - Gartsman, Gary M.
AU  - Hanten:, William
TI  - Physical Therapy (97)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 1530-7085
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-97.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-97.x
SP  - 117
EP  - 118
PY  - 2001
AB  - Comparison of the University of California (Los Angeles) shoulder scale and the simple shulder test with shoulder pain and disability index: Single-administration reliability and validity. (Texas Woman's University, Houston, TX) Phys Ther. 2000;80:759?768. This study compared 2 shoulder measures?the University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA) Shoulder Scale and the Simple Shoulder Test (SST)?with the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI). One hundred ninety-two patients with shoulder disorders were recruited from one physician's office to complete the self-report sections of the 3 scales. Cronbach alpha values and standard errors of measurements (SEM) were calculated for each of the multi-item subscales. Validity was examined through calculation of correlation coefficients among the 3 scales. Factor analysis was completed to assess the underlying constructs of the SPADI and SST. Cronbach alpha values ranged from 0.85 to 0.95. The SEM values for the multi-item scales ranged from 4.75 to 11.65. Evidence for validity to reflect function was indicated by the correlation between the SST and the SPADI disability subscale. The factor analysis of the SPADI revealed loading on 1 factor, whereas the SST loaded on 2 factors. Conclude that all scales demonstrated good internal consistency, suggesting that all items for each scale measure the same constract. However, SEMS for all scales were high. Factor loading was consistent, suggesting that patients may not distinguish between pain and function. Comment by Philip S. Sizer Jr., MED, PT. Clinical practitioners are leaning toward evaluating functional status versus a pure-impairment-based approach to appraising shoulder limitations. Several scales have been developed for the evaluation of shoulder function, including the University of California Los Angeles Shoulder Scale (UCLA), the Simple Shoulder Test (SST), and the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI). Investigations demonstrating the psychometric properties of these scales are limited in number. These investigators attempted to assess those properties, including internal consistency, reliability, and validity for all 3 scales. The analyses demonstrated internal consistency and construct homogeneity for the SPADI. However, all 3 scales demonstrated rather large standard errors of measure, which questions the reliability of the scales for measurement of an individual's progress. Regarding construct validity, the SPADI does not appear to distinguish between pain and dysfunction, disqualifying its use as a gold standard for comparison with other scales. While the SST purports to measure a single construct, the data suggests that it appears to measure 2 different constructs namely function and comfort. Additionally, the analyses appear to demonstrate that, while the scales may attempt to measure the same constructs, they apparently do not. Finally, the authors suggest that the precision of the UCLA scale is inferior to the other 2 scales and insufficient for following the progress of individual patients in the clinical setting.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Plenary II: Surgical Controversies 9:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 49
IS  - s7
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
SP  - 497
EP  - 497
PY  - 2008
AB  - Robert E. Gross*, David W. Loring?, John T. Langfitt?, George A. Ojemann?, André Olivier? and Christoph Helmstaedter??*Department of Neurosurgery, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA; ?McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL; ?Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY; ?Department of Neurosurgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; ?Division of Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada and ?Bereich Neuropsychologie, Universitätsklinik für Epileptologie, Bonn, Germany Summary: The surgical treatment of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) by amygdalo-hippocampectomy (AH) has a high likelihood of yielding a seizure-free outcome and associated improvement in quality-of-life. Nevertheless, there are several important areas of controversy with regard to the surgical approach, differences of which may impact the rate of success and the incidence of adverse effects. Cognitive sequelae of temporal lobe surgery may result from (1) resection or transgression of the lateral (neocortical) temporal lobe or the temporal stem, which may lead to impairment in learning, and/or (2) resection of mesial structures, which may lead to decline in material-specific memory. The recent multi-center clinical trial analyzing the predictors of post-surgical quality-of-life will be discussed, including the finding that improvement depends on seizure-freedom irrespective of the occurrence of verbal memory decline. Nevertheless, it is incumbent on surgeons to minimize the occurrence of these cognitive sequelae while maximizing the possibility of seizure-freedom. Several approaches to gain access to the mesial structures will be compared with regard to cognitive outcome, including anterior temporal lobectomy (standard vs. tailored), trans-cortical selective AH and trans-sylvian selective AH, which differ in terms of their disruption of the temporal neocortex and temporal stem. Alternative approaches to the mesial resection will be compared with regard to seizure-free rates and the incidence of post-surgical decline in memory, including tailoring the hippocampal resection to the presence of inter-ictal epileptic spikes vs. performing a standardized resection, and the influence of the amount of hippocampal tissue resected. Open discussion of recent results addressing these important issues will hopefully either propel the field towards consensus, or highlight the need for further randomized clinical trials to improve patient outcome following amygdalo-hippocampectomy for MTLE.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yıldız, Barış Doğu
AU  - Özden, Sabri
AU  - Saylam, Barış
AU  - Martlı, Fahri
AU  - Tez, Mesut
TI  - Simplified scoring system for prediction of mortality in acute suppurative cholangitis
JO  - The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences
JA  - The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences
VL  - 34
IS  - 7
SN  - 1607-551X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.kjms.2017.12.016
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.kjms.2017.12.016
SP  - 415
EP  - 419
KW  - Acute cholangitis
KW  - Suppurative
KW  - Mortality
KW  - Scoring system
KW  - Red cell distribution width
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Our objective in this study was to identify the factors contributing to mortality in acute suppurative cholangitis which could be tested easily in every emergency clinic. This is a retrospective study enrolling 104 patients with acute suppurative cholangitis. Demographic and laboratory data were collected for analysis. In univariant analysis red cell distribution width, total bilirubin level, intensive care unit admission was identified as statistically significant (p?<?0.05) to predict mortality. Three variables were statistically significant in multivariate analysis: total bilirubin level equal to or more than 6.9?mg/dl, red cell distribution width equal to or more than 14.45%, and admission to intensive care unit. We found a new scoring system for prediction of mortality in acute suppurative cholangitis utilizing only three variables. This would serve as a simplified, rapid way to direct patients for advanced interventions instead of wasting time with more complicated and time consuming multi-variable scoring systems.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wand, Gary S.
AU  - Weerts, Elise M.
AU  - Kuwabara, Hiroto
AU  - Wong, Dean F.
AU  - Xu, Xiaoqiang
AU  - McCaul, Mary E.
TI  - The relationship between naloxone-induced cortisol and delta opioid receptor availability in mesolimbic structures is disrupted in alcohol-dependent subjects
JO  - Addiction Biology
VL  - 18
IS  - 1
SN  - 1355-6215
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1369-1600.2011.00430.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1369-1600.2011.00430.x
SP  - 181
EP  - 192
KW  - Cortisol
KW  - delta opioid receptors
KW  - HPA axis
KW  - mu opioid receptors
KW  - naloxone
KW  - PET imaging
PY  - 2013
AB  - ABSTRACT Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis responses following naloxone administration have been assumed to provide a measure of opioid receptor activity. Employing positron emission tomography (PET) using the mu opioid receptor (MOR) selective ligand [11C] carfentanil (CFN), we demonstrated that cortisol responses to naloxone administration were negatively correlated with MOR availability. In this study, we examined whether naloxone-induced cortisol and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) responses in 15 healthy control and 20 recently detoxified alcohol-dependent subjects correlated with delta opioid receptor (DOR) availability in 15 brain regions using the DOR-selective ligand [11C] methyl-naltrindole (MeNTL) and PET imaging. The day after the scan, cortisol responses to cumulative doses of naloxone were determined. Peak cortisol and ACTH levels and area under the cortisol and ACTH curve did not differ by group. There were negative relationships between cortisol area under curve to naloxone and [11C] MeNTL-binding potential (BPND) in the ventral striatum, anterior cingulate, fusiform cortices, temporal cortex, putamen and a trend in the hypothalamus of healthy control subjects. However, in alcohol-dependent subjects, cortisol responses did not correlate with [11C]MeNTL BPND in any brain region. Plasma ACTH levels did not correlate with [11C]MeNTL BPND in either group. The study demonstrates that naloxone provides information about individual differences in DOR availability in several mesolimbic structures. The data also show that the HPA axis is intimately connected with mesolimbic stress pathways through opioidergic neurotransmission in healthy subjects but this relationship is disrupted during early abstinence in alcohol-dependent subjects.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nishiyama, Tomoki
AU  - Ho, Rodney J.Y.
AU  - Shen, Danny D.
AU  - Yaksh, Tony L.
TI  - Basic Science (22)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 1530-7085
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-22.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-22.x
SP  - 91
EP  - 92
PY  - 2001
AB  - The effects of intrathecal morphine encapsulated in l- and d-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline liposomes on acute nociception in rats. (University of California, San Diego, CA) Anesth Analg 2000;91:423?428. This study evaluated the antinociceptive effects of morphine encapsulated in liposomes of two isomeric phospholipids, l-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline (l-DPPC) and d-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline (d-DPPC), in comparison with morphine in saline. Sprague-Dawley rats with chronic lumbar intrathecal catheters were tested for their acute nociceptive response using a hindpaw thermal escape test. Their general behavior, motor function, pinna reflex, and corneal reflex were also examined. The duration of antinociception was longer in both liposomal morphine groups than in the free morphine group. The peak antinociceptive effects were observed within 30 min after intrathecal morphine, l-DPPC or d-DPPC morphine injection. The rank order of the area under the effect-time curve for antinociception was l-DPPC morphine> d-DPPC morphine> morphine. The 50% effective dose was: 2.7 ?g (morphine), 4.6 ?g (l-DPPC morphine), and 6.4 ?g (d-DPPC morphine). d-DPPC morphine had fewer side effects for a given antinociceptive AUC than morphine. Conclude that l-DPPC and d-DPPC liposome encapsulation of morphine prolonged the antinociceptive effect on acute thermal stimulation and could decrease side effects compared with morphine alone. Comments by James E. Heavner, DVM, PhD. One would intuitively expect that encapsulation of a drug would prolong its duration of action and reduce systemic side effects. However, the results of this study taken in the context of studies with the encapsulation of other opioids indicate that the physical/chemical properties of the opioid can have an important influence on the results of encapsulation. For example, the investigators have demonstrated that encapsulation of alfentanyl had only a modest effect on its duration of action, presumably because of the ability of the lipophilic alfentanyl to rapidly defuse through the membranes of the liposomes. One question the study leaves open is whether or not the material used for encapsulation has consistent effects on its own. The investigators previously found that intrathecal delivery of l-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline resulted in a steroid-sensitive allodynia. However, in the present study the investigators did not observe this. Thus, there is much to be learned about the science and art of drug encapsulation for therapeutic purposes in humans.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kopp, Wouter H.
AU  - de Vries, Erwin
AU  - de Boer, Jan
AU  - Putter, Hein
AU  - Schareck, Wolfgang
AU  - Samuel, Undine
AU  - Braat, Andries E.
TI  - Donor risk indices in pancreas allocation in the Eurotransplant region
JO  - Transplant International
JA  - Transpl Int
VL  - 29
IS  - 8
SN  - 0934-0874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tri.12797
DO  - doi:10.1111/tri.12797
SP  - 921
EP  - 929
KW  - donation
KW  - donor identification
KW  - expanded donor pool
KW  - pancreas clinical
KW  - selection criteria
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Pancreas donor selection and recognition are important to cope with increasing organ shortage. We aim to show that the PDRI is more useful than the P-PASS to predict acceptance and should thus be preferred over P-PASS. Eurotransplant donors from 2004 until 2014 were included in this study. PDRI logistical factors were set to reference to purely reflect donor quality (PDRI donor). PDRI and P-PASS association with allocation outcome was studied using area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC). Regional differences in donor quality were also investigated. Of the 10 444 pancreata that were reported, 6090 (58.3%) were accepted and 2947 (28.2%) were transplanted. We found that P-PASS was inferior to PDRIdonor in its ability to predict organ reporting, acceptance, and transplantation: AUC 0.63, 0.67 and 0.73 for P-PASS vs. 0.78, 0.79 and 0.84 for PDRIdonor, respectively. Furthermore, there were significant differences in donor quality among different Eurotransplant countries, both in reported donors and in transplanted organs. PDRI is a powerful predictor of allocation outcome and should be preferred over P-PASS. Proper donor selection and recognition, and possibly a more liberal approach toward inferior quality donors, may increase donation and transplant rates.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Physical Therapy (92)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 1530-7085
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-92.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-92.x
SP  - 114
EP  - 115
PY  - 2001
AB  - Jeanine Yip Menck, Susan Mais Requejo, Kornelia Kulig: Thoracic spine dysfunction in upper extremity complex regional pain syndrome type 1. (University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA) J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2000;30:401?409. The objective of this case study was to demonstrate the importance of assessment and treatment of the thoracic spine in the management of a patient with signs and symptoms of upper extremity complex regional pain syndrome type I. The patient was a 38-year-old woman who suffered a traumatic injury to her left hand. Five months after the injury, she presented with severe pain, immobility of the left arm, and associated dystrophic changes. She was unable to work and needed help in some activities of daily living. The patient was treated for 3 months in 36 visits. Initial treatment consisted of cutaneous desensitization, edema management, and gentle therapeutic exercises. However, further examination indicated hypomobility and hypersensitivity of the upper thoracic spine. Joint manipulation of the T3 and T4 segments was implemented. The patient's status was monitored. Immediately after the vertebral manipulation, there was significant increase in the left hand's skin temperature and a decrease in hyperhydrosis as measured by palpation. Shoulder range of motion increased from 135º to 175° and the patient reported reduced pain. The decrease in the patient's dystrophic and allodynic symptoms permitted further progress in functional reeducation. The patient was discharged with full return to independence and initiation of a vocational training program. Conclude that the assessment and treatment of the thoracic spine should be considered in patients with upper extremity complex regional pain syndrome type I. Comment by Karen Crawford, RPT. This is a study demonstrating the importance of assessment of the thoracic spine to manage patients with signs and symptoms of upper extremity complex regional pain syndrome type I (CRPS-I). The patient was a 38-year-old female with traumatic injury to the left hand. The purpose of this study is to determine the relation between distal symptoms of CRPS-I and the thoracic spine and to describe the use of thoracic spine manipulation in the management of patients with CRPS-I in the upper extremity. CRPS-I in the upper extremity often exhibits postural deviations associated with protective positioning of the arm. It emanates as trunk motion during upper activities and may present with decreased thoracic intervertebral mobility. This study believes that the evaluation and treatment in areas proximal to a patient's symptoms in CRPS-I may be necessary. Hypomobility secondary to abnormal posturing and anatomical proximity of the sympathetic ganglions to the thoracic spine may contribute to the link between upper quadrant CRPS-I and thoracic joint dysfunction. In the study, a 38-year-old, left-hand dominant, female who sustained trauma to her left wrist and hand while at work was seen in physical therapy for a total of 36 visits. Initial treatment consisted of desensitization, edema management, and general therapeutic exercises. Further examination indicated hypomobility and hypersensitivity of the upper thoracic spine. At that time, joint manipulation of T3 and T4 segments was implemented. The patient's status was monitored and range of motion, strength, temperature, and skin moisture were measured. The patient reported minimal changes in her status, and 1 month into treatments, she hit her left hand on a door and consequently discontinued therapy because of increased pain. Five months after the initial injury, patient was reevaluated. She then received physical therapy 3 times per week for 12 weeks and was discharged with significant improved functional status. At the initial examination, the diagnosis of CRPS-I was based on the IASP Committee on Taxonomy. The initial treatment objective was pain management and edema control. The long-term goal was return to a functional status. Initial treatment consisted of gentle active and passive wrist and finger range of motion and tubagrip for edema management. A home program desensitization was implemented. The patient's active participation in therapy was limited secondary to her willingness to move her left arm. Treatment 2 included evaluation and manipulation of the upper thoracic spine. Her clinician used her manipulating hand as a fulcrum by placing it under the supine patient at the level of thoracic joint dysfunction. A thrust was delivered through the patient's folded arms as she exhaled and there as an audible click. There was an immediate normalization of skin temperature, color, as well as significantly decreased allodynic response to light touch along the left arm and the left upper thoracic vertebral column. Segmental thoracic mobility was immediately improved and there was immediate increase in shoulder flexion after this treatment. This reduction of signs and symptoms of CRPS-I made it possible to proceed with functional rehabilitation. Manipulation of the thoracic spine may have resulted in improvements in distal upper extremity pain, skin color, and temperature in a patient with CRPS-I. One explanation is that disuse of the arm and abnormal posturing may contribute to thoracic hypomobility. The anatomic proximity of the sympathetic chain to the dysfunctional thoracic joints may predispose the ganglions to mechanical pressure. Therefore, it is concluded that the evaluation and treatment of areas proximal to the patient's symptoms are necessary. It is difficult to identify the mechanism responsible for changing distal symptoms after thoracic manipulation. The immediate increase in shoulder flexion after manipulation is likely due to mechanical change in the tissue. In conclusion, this study describes a link between the thoracic spine and distal symptoms in patients with CRPS-I. Thoracic joint manipulation appeared to improve spinal mobility, and also appeared to relieve distal and autonomic symptoms. These improvements allowed for functional rehabilitation of the effected arm. Therefore, it is the opinion of the study that the mobility of the thoracic spine should be evaluated for patients with autonomic dysfunction diagnosed with CRPS-I. The research also indicates a need for further research to define the relationship between neurogenic symptoms and musculoskeletal pathology.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fontenot, Robin L.
AU  - Langston, Vernon C.
AU  - Zimmerman, Jamie A.
AU  - Wills, Robert W.
AU  - Sloan, Pearce B.
AU  - Mochal-King, Cathleen A.
TI  - Meropenem synovial fluid concentrations after intravenous regional limb perfusion in standing horses
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
JA  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 47
IS  - 6
SN  - 0161-3499
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vsu.12940
DO  - doi:10.1111/vsu.12940
SP  - 852
EP  - 860
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Objective To determine meropenem concentrations in radiocarpal (RC) joint fluid and plasma after intravenous regional limb perfusion (IVRLP). Study design In vivo experimental study. Animals Nine healthy adult mares. Methods Meropenem (500 mg) was injected in the forelimb of standing sedated horses via IVRLP with a pneumatic tourniquet inflated to 400 mmHg. Synovial fluid was collected from RC joints at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, and 18 hours after meropenem injection. Blood samples were collected from the jugular vein at the same time points and at 5 and 15 minutes following injection. Meropenem concentrations were determined by using a microbiological bioassay. Results Median synovial fluid concentrations reached a time of maximum synovial fluid concentration 0.5 hours after IVRLP. Synovial fluid concentrations varied greatly, with a mean maximum synovial fluid concentration of 25.6 µg/mL (range, below limit of quantitation to 75.5). Concentrations remained above the breakpoint for susceptibility (1 µg/mL) for 3 hours (last nonzero concentration measured, median) and 4.1 hours (predicted, mean). Concentrations >6 µg/mL were measured for 2 hours (observed, median) and 1.7 hours (predicted, mean). Six horses had mild swelling at the injection site. Conclusion Administration of 500 mg meropenem resulted in highly variable concentrations between horses and achieved levels above clinically relevant minimum inhibitory concentration for a minor portion of a once-daily dosing interval. Clinical significance If time-dependent pharmacodynamics apply, IVRLP with 500 mg of meropenem may be ineffective and would likely promote resistance.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 287-313
TI  - The Emergency Treatment of Epilepsy
SN  - 9781405198189
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444325201.ch9
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444325201.ch9
SP  - 287-313
KW  - The Emergency Treatment of Epilepsy
KW  - cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
KW  - How to deal with a seizure
KW  - central nervous system (CNS)
KW  - low-density lipoprotein (LDL)
KW  - ‘downregulation of the GABA A receptor’
KW  - Antiepileptic drugs used in status epilepticus (UDPGT)
KW  - area under the curve (AUC)
KW  - uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase
KW  - N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: How to deal with a seizure Status epilepticus Antiepileptic drugs used in status epilepticus
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jones, Kelly
TI  - Success for a novel approach to priority setting in South Australian public dental clinics
JO  - Australian Dental Journal
JA  - Aust Dent J
VL  - 58
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781405198189
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/adj.12094
DO  - doi:10.1111/adj.12094
SP  - 378
EP  - 383
PY  - 2013
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Phelps, Ribert G.
AU  - Wilentz:, Seth
TI  - Neurology (59)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405198189
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-59.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-59.x
SP  - 105
EP  - 105
PY  - 2001
AB  - Reflex sympathetic dystrophy. (Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY) Int J Dermatol 2000;39:481?486. This review aimed to familiarize the dermatologist with the essential features of reflex sympathetic dystrophy. It highlights areas that are most likely to be of interest to the dermatologist. Information regarding diagnosis, pathogenesis theories, and treatment are included. Comment by Enrique Reig, MD. This paper analyses RSD from the point of view of a specialist in dermatology. It addresses in depth the definition of RSD (or the new name, CRPS type I), the symptoms required for adequate diagnosis, some theories to explain this syndrome, and some of the treatments available. It highlights the clinical pictures, which can cause RSD (trauma, ischemia, tumors, infection, neurological and iatrogenic causes), and particularly dermatological syndromes (minor surgery, postherpetic neuralgia, Dupuytren, vasculitis ?). The treatment has a bipolar objective: to relieve pain in order to be able to apply appropriate physical therapy, which will allow recovery of the involved limb. There are more than 60 treatments reported in the literature, suggesting that there is no universal protocol. However, prevention of RSD, and particularly the early onset of treatment are essential for achieving functional and pain relief. To suppress sympathetic hyperactivity, nerve blocks (somatic and sympathetic), intravenous regional blockade with guanethidine or reserpine, alpha blockers (phentolamine), beta blockers (propranolol), and calcitonine can be used. No reference is made to anticonvulsants (gabapentine, topiramate), antidepressants (ie, amitriptyline), intravenous lidocaine, or spinal cord stimulation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reina, Miquel Angel
AU  - De Leon, Oscar A.
AU  - Lopez, Andres
AU  - De Andres, Jose
AU  - Martin, Sara
AU  - Mora, Miquel
TI  - Anesthesia (13)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405198189
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-13.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-13.x
SP  - 88
EP  - 89
PY  - 2001
AB  - An in vitro study of dural lesions produced by 25-gauge Quincke and Whitacre needles evaluated by scanning electron microscopy. (Hospital de Mostoles, Madrid Spain) Reg Anesth Pain Med 2000;25:393?402. This study evaluated the dural lesions produced by Whitacre and Quincke spinal needles in the external and internal surface of the dura mater of the lower spine area in an attempt to gain more insight into the pathophysiology of postdural puncture headaches (PDPH). The T11-L4 dural membranes from 5 fresh (immediately after extraction of organs for transplantation) male patients declared brain dead, ages 23, 46, 48, 55, and 60, were excised by anterior laminectomy. Morphologic orientation of the membrane and normal pH were maintained; 100 punctures at 90-degree angles were done with a new needle each time, 50 with 25-gauge Whitacre and 50 with 25-gauge Quincke needles. Half of the punctures with the Quincke needles were done with the bevel in the parallel direction to the axis of the spinal cord, and the rest with the bevel perpendicular to it. Fixation in solutions of 2.5% glutaraldehyde phosphate buffer, followed by dehydration with acetone, was done 15 min after the punctures. The acetone was removed and the specimens were metallized with carbon followed by gold and inspected under a scanning electron microscope. When the area of the dural lesions found in the external and internal surfaces produced by the 2 types of needles was compared, no significant differences were found. The percentage of lesion closing area with the Quincke needles was 88.3% and 82.7% in the external and internal surfaces, respectively. With the Whitacre needles, the percentage of closing was 86.8% and 84.8% in the epidural and arachnoid surfaces, respectively. There were differences noted in the morphology of the lesions. The Whitacre needles produced coarse lesions with significant destruction in the dura's fibers while the Quincke needles produced a ?U?-shaped lesion (flap) that mimics the opened lid of a tin can, regardless of the tip's direction. Conclude that the needles produced lesions in the dura with different morphology and characteristics. Lesions with the Quincke needles resulted in a clean-cut opening in the dural membrane while the Whitacre needle produced a more traumatic opening with tearing and severe disruption of the collagen fibers. The lower incidence of PDPH seen in the Whitacre needles may be explained, in part, by the inflammatory reaction produced by the tearing of the collagen fibers after dural penetration. The inflammatory reaction may result in a significant edema, which may act as a plug limiting the leakage of the cerebrospinal fluid. Comment by Andrew D. Rosenberg, MD. This is an interesting article that explains why a patient will develop a postdural puncture headache (PDPH) after receiving a spinal with a Quincke needle and not after a Whitacre-type needle. The explanation is based more upon an inflammatory reaction than the direction of the needle cut. The Quincke needle appears to make a sharp cut while the Whitacre needle induced an inflammatory response including edema, which could block off the dura from leaking. It is very interesting that the response seen after the Whitacre needle was utilized occurred as quickly as it did. The article introduces the question as to whether a Quincke needle or a Whitacre needle is associated with more trauma to the dura, and which is better for decreasing the incidence of PDPD.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Versleijen, Michelle W.
AU  - Roelofs, Hennie M.
AU  - Rombouts, Charlotte
AU  - Hermans, Peter W.
AU  - Noakes, Paul S.
AU  - Calder, Philip C.
AU  - Wanten, Geert J.
TI  - Short-term infusion of a fish oil-based lipid emulsion modulates fatty acid status, but not immune function or (anti)oxidant balance: a randomized cross-over study
JO  - European Journal of Clinical Investigation
VL  - 42
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781405198189
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2362.2011.02582.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2362.2011.02582.x
SP  - 290
EP  - 302
KW  - Fish oil
KW  - human
KW  - immune modulation
KW  - lipid incorporation
KW  - parenteral lipid
PY  - 2012
AB  - Eur J Clin Invest 2012; 42 (3): 290?302 Abstract Background and aims? Studies suggest clinical benefits of parenteral fish oil (FO), rich in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), over soyabean oil (SO), rich in n-6 PUFAs, in patients with pro-inflammatory conditions such as sepsis and trauma. Because the mechanisms behind these observations remain unclear, the present study explored the effects of intravenous infusion of FO and SO on fatty acid incorporation, immune functions and (anti)oxidant balance in healthy human volunteers. Methods? Saline, a SO emulsion and a FO emulsion were administered for one hour on three consecutive days at a rate of 0·2?g/kg?BW/h to eight subjects in a randomized cross-over design with a 3-week interval between treatments. Plasma phospholipid and peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) fatty acid compositions, and leucocyte counts and functions were assessed prior to the first infusion (T?=?0, baseline) and 1?day (T?=?4, early effects) and 8?days (T?=?11, late effects) after the third infusion. Results? Fish oil infusion significantly increased n-3 PUFA proportions and decreased n-6 PUFA proportions in plasma phospholipids and PBMCs. There were no differences in immune functions or (anti)oxidant balance between treatments at any time. Conclusions? The present lipid infusion protocol appears to be safe and well tolerated and provides significant incorporation of n-3 PUFAs into plasma phospholipids and PBMCs. In the absence of overt inflammation, no direct effects of FO were observed on immune function or (anti)oxidant balance. This model may be useful to evaluate effects of parenteral lipids in other settings, for example in individuals displaying an inflammatory state.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Zieleskiewicz, L.
AU  - Bouvet, L.
AU  - Einav, S.
AU  - Duclos, G.
AU  - Leone, M.
TI  - Diagnostic point-of-care ultrasound: applications in obstetric anaesthetic management
JO  - Anaesthesia
JA  - Anaesthesia
VL  - 73
IS  - 10
SN  - 9781405198189
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/anae.14354
DO  - doi:10.1111/anae.14354
SP  - 1265
EP  - 1279
KW  - anaesthesia: obstetric
KW  - diagnostic imaging
KW  - dyspnoea
KW  - echocardiography
KW  - haemodynamic monitoring
KW  - point-of-care ultrasound: diagnostic techniques, obstetric and gynaecological
KW  - shock
KW  - ultrasonography: stomach
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary Complications during pregnancy are not frequent, but may occur abruptly. Point-of-care ultrasound is a non-invasive, non-ionising diagnostic tool that is available at the bed-side when complications occur. This review covers the use of ultrasound in various clinical situations. Gastric ultrasound can identify stomach contents that put the woman at risk for pulmonary aspiration. In the future, this tool will probably be used routinely before induction of anaesthesia to determine the presence of stomach contents above a particular risk threshold. Difficult tracheal intubation, and the potential for ?can't intubate, can't oxygenate?, is more frequent in pregnant women. Point-of-care ultrasound of the airway allows accurate identification of the cricothyroid membrane, permitting rapid and safer establishment of front-of-neck airway access. Combined cardiac and lung ultrasound can determine the potential risk:benefit of fluid administration in the pregnant patient. Such prediction is of critical importance, given the tendency of pregnant women to develop pulmonary oedema. Combined echocardiography and lung ultrasound can be combined with ultrasound of the leg veins to differentiate between the various causes of acute respiratory failure, and guide treatment in this situation. Finally, as shown in the general population, multi-organ point-of-care ultrasound allows early diagnosis of the main causes of circulatory failure and cardiac arrest at the bed-side. As the importance of point-of-care ultrasound in critical patients is increasingly recognised, it is emerging as an important tool in the therapeutic armoury of obstetric anaesthetists.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Liu, Yujia
AU  - Xiao, Xianchao
AU  - Sun, Chenglin
AU  - Tian, Suyan
AU  - Sun, Zhonghua
AU  - Gao, Ying
AU  - Li, Yazhen
AU  - Cheng, Jie
AU  - Lv, You
AU  - Li, Mei
AU  - Li, Zhuo
AU  - Zhang, Yumin
AU  - Wang, Gang
AU  - Liu, Yang
AU  - Gao, Yuan
AU  - Zhu, Liwen
AU  - Liu, Yan
AU  - Wang, Guixia
TI  - Ideal glycated hemoglobin cut-off points for screening diabetes and prediabetes in a Chinese population
JO  - Journal of Diabetes Investigation
JA  - J Diabetes Investig
VL  - 7
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781405198189
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jdi.12498
DO  - doi:10.1111/jdi.12498
SP  - 695
EP  - 702
KW  - Chinese adults
KW  - Receiver operating characteristic curves
KW  - Type 2 diabetes mellitus
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Aims/Introduction The aims of the present study were to evaluate the diagnostic value of fasting plasma glucose, 2-h postload plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) measurements in the screening of diabetes and prediabetes, and to determine the cut-off point of HbA1c in the diagnosis of diabetes and prediabetes in a Chinese population. Materials and Methods A total of 7,611 individuals aged 40 years or older, who did not have a prior history of diabetes, were randomly selected in the Changchun area. For each participant, a questionnaire was completed, and a physical examination and an oral glucose tolerance test were carried out. The values of fasting plasma glucose, 2-h postload plasma glucose and HbA1c were compared by area under the receiver operating characteristic curves. The Youden index was used to identify the optimal cut-off point of HbA1c in the diagnosis of diabetes and prediabetes. Results The prevalence of newly diagnosed diabetes and prediabetes was 12.71% and 29.39%, respectively. In participants with newly diagnosed diabetes, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.8368 for fasting plasma glucose, 0.9330 for 2-h postload plasma glucose and 0.8064 for HbA1c; whereas for prediabetes, these values were 0.8022, 0.9288 and 0.6895, respectively. In addition, an HbA1c threshold of 6.3% showed the highest Youden index (0.4799) for detecting diabetes; furthermore, an HbA1c threshold of 5.8% showed the highest Youden index (0.2866) for detecting prediabetes. Conclusions HbA1c ≥6.3% (45 mmol/mol) and between 5.8% and 6.2% (40?44 mmol/mol) were the optimal cut-off values for the diagnosis of diabetes and prediabetes, respectively, in a Chinese population.
ER  - 
