
TY  - JOUR
AU  -  Mosing, M
AU  - Moens, Y
TI  - A comparison of two different methods for dead space measurements in ventilated dogs
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 30
IS  - 2
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_5.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_5.x
SP  - 90
EP  - 91
PY  - 2003
AB  - The aim of the study was to compare two methods of measuring physiological dead space/tidal volume ratio (Vd/Vt) and alveolar dead space (VdALV). Measurements were obtained by automated single breath CO2 analysis (Ventrak 1550/Capnoguard 1265 (V VdALV: 56.1?64.3?mL) did not differ significantly from those calculated arithmetically (Vd/Vt: 0.62?0.63; VdALV: 54.09?66.31?mL). The mean differences and standard deviation in Vd/Vt was 0.63?±?0.00 and in VdALV 58.98?±?4.28?mL for the two measurement techniques. Our data indicate that V&C can be used for accurate noninvasive online Vd/Vt and VdALV measurements in anaesthetized ventilated dogs.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - da Cunha, Anderson F
AU  - Strain, George M
AU  - Rademacher, Nathalie
AU  - Schnellbacher, Rodney
AU  - Tully, Thomas N
TI  - Palpation- and ultrasound-guided brachial plexus blockade in Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis)
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 40
IS  - 1
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2012.00783.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2012.00783.x
KW  - analgesia
KW  - avian
KW  - birds
KW  - local anesthesia
KW  - nerve evoked muscle potentials
KW  - pain
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Objective? To compare palpation-guided with ultrasound-guided brachial plexus blockade in Hispaniolan Amazon parrots. Study design? Prospective randomized experimental trial. Animals? Eighteen adult Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) weighing 252?295?g. Methods? After induction of anesthesia with isoflurane, parrots received an injection of lidocaine (2?mg?kg?1) in a total volume of 0.3?mL at the axillary region. The birds were randomly assigned to equal groups using either palpation or ultrasound as a guide for the brachial plexus block. Nerve evoked muscle potentials (NEMP) were used to monitor effectiveness of brachial plexus block. The palpation-guided group received the local anesthetic at the space between the pectoral muscle, triceps, and supracoracoideus aticimus muscle, at the insertion of the tendons of the caudal coracobrachial muscle, and the caudal scapulohumeral muscle. For the ultrasound-guided group, the brachial plexus and the adjacent vessels were located with B-mode ultrasonography using a 7?15?MHz linear probe. After location, an 8-5?MHz convex transducer was used to guide injections. General anesthesia was discontinued 20?minutes after lidocaine injection and the birds recovered in a padded cage. Results? Both techniques decreased the amplitude of NEMP. Statistically significant differences in NEMP amplitudes, were observed within the ultrasound-guided group at 5, 10, 15, and 20?minutes after injection and within the palpation-guided group at 10, 15, and 20?minutes after injection. There was no statistically significant difference between the two groups. No effect on motor function, muscle relaxation or wing droop was observed after brachial plexus block. Conclusions and clinical relevance? The onset of the brachial plexus block tended to be faster when ultrasonography was used. Brachial plexus injection can be performed in Hispaniolan Amazon parrots and nerve evoked muscle potentials were useful to monitor the effects on nerve conduction in this avian species. Neither technique produced an effective block at the doses of lidocaine used and further study is necessary to develop a useful block for surgical analgesia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: Computer Analysis of EEG
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_34.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_34.x
SP  - 312
EP  - 324
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Tomoyuki Akiyama, 2 Hiroshi Otsubo, 2 Ayako Ochi, 2 Rajesh RamachandranNair, 2 Irene Elliot, 2 Elizabeth Donner, 2 Shelly K. Weiss, 2 James T. Rutka, and 2 O. Carter Snead III ( 1 Department of Child Neurology, Okayama University Hospital, Okayama, Okayama, Japan ; and 2 Division of Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Multiple band frequency analysis (MBFA), a new frequency analysis method, provides better frequency and temporal resolutions than fast Fourier or wavelet transform. We evaluated dynamic changes of high frequency oscillations (HFOs) on brain surface maps using MBFA to localize epileptogenic zones in neocortical epilepsy. Methods: We studied 2 children with intractable neocortical epilepsy by subdural EEG (SDEEG) at 1 KHz sampling rate. We performed MBFA for 1?5 second ictal EEG using the software Short Spectrum Eye (Gram, Saitama, Japan). We identified HFOs, determined the frequency range, and calculated averaged powers at every 10 ms for all electrodes. We imported the averaged powers into a topographic mapping program Prism and Insight (Persyst, Prescott, AZ) to visualize HFO powers on the brain surface picture. To analyze temporal interrelationships of regions with HFOs, we arranged HFO power maps at every 20 ms to project movies of ictal HFOs on the brain surface. Case 1: A 17 year old right handed girl presented with simple partial seizures consisting of numbness and tingling sensations in the right arm followed by clonic movements and secondary generalization. Case 2: A 14 year old left handed boy with asymmetric epileptic spasms in clusters. Results: Case 1; During partial seizures, MBFA of 25-channel SDEEG showed 80?130 Hz HFOs over the middle portion of the left postcentral gyrus and upper portion of the left post- and pre-central gyri. Sequential power maps of 80?130 Hz HFOs revealed high powers over these 2 regions, and reverberating power changes between them with a maximum at the middle portion of postcentral gyrus. We resected the upper and middle portions of left postcentral gyrus. She has rare and brief partial motor seizures without sensory aura and secondary generalization 9 months after surgery. Case 2; During spasms, MBFA of 106-channel SDEEG showed extensive but noncontiguous 60?150 Hz HFOs over the right superior and inferior frontal, and middle temporal gyri. Sequential power maps of 80?120 Hz HFOs revealed initial high power over the right superior frontal gyrus and subsequent activations over other 2 regions. We performed partial right frontal lobectomy, cortical excisions of the superior and inferior frontal gyri, and middle temporal gyrus where predominant HFOs existed. He is seizure free 6 months after surgery. Conclusions: The combination of MBFA and sequential brain surface HFO power mapping enabled us to recognize the localization and dynamic changes of ictal HFOs. This spatial and temporal analysis of HFO cortical mapping may disclose the behavior of ictal networks in the cortical epileptogenic zones. 1 Eishi Asano, 1 Csaba Juhasz, 1 Aashit Shah, 1 Otto Muzik, 1 Diane C. Chugani, 1 Sandeep Sood, and 1 Harry T. Chugani ( 1 Pediatrics, Neurology, Radiology, Neurosurgery, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: Cortical tubers are the hallmark of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and are usually associated with overlying and surrounding gray matter on MRI. In the present study, we have quantitatively analyzed ictal electrocorticography (ECoG) data using subdural and depth electrodes to determine whether epileptic seizures originate more frequently from glucose hypometabolic cortex surrounding a tuber than normometabolic cortex. Secondly, we asked whether epileptic seizures are generated by a cortical tuber itself or the cortex surrounding a tuber in children with TSC. Methods: We studied a series of 16 children with TSC and uncontrolled seizures (age: 5 months to 16 years; 11 boys), who underwent MRI, glucose metabolism PET and prolonged intracranial ECoG recording for subsequent cortical resection. The location of electrodes was derived from planar X-rays and displayed on the 3D brain surface reconstructed from MRIs showing the location of tubers and also hypometabolic areas from co-registered PET scans (Muzik et al, Neurology 2000). For each seizure event, the center of ictal discharges was objectively defined as the electrode showing the maximal increase of ECoG magnitude specific to an ictal onset in a seizure consisting of continuous rhythmic activity or the electrode showing the maximal spike magnitude in a seizure consisting of periodic spike activity or a single spike followed by fast wave bursts (Asano et al, Epilepsia 2005 [in press]). We performed a one-sample t-test to determine whether the center of ictal discharges was located more frequently in glucose hypometabolic regions than normometabolic regions, and whether the center of ictal discharges was located more frequently in the cortex surrounding a tuber than the cortical tuber itself. Results: A total of 70 seizures were objectively analyzed in the subjects where subdural electrodes but not depth electrodes were placed on the presumed epileptic hemisphere. In 57 out of the 70 seizures, the center of ictal discharges was located in the glucose hypometabolic cortices. Ictal discharges arose more frequently from the glucose hypometabolic cortex than from normometabolic cortex (p < 0.001). In a single subject where a depth electrode was inserted into a tuber, no spontaneous seizures were captured and we were not able to determine the location of ictal onset zones. Conclusions: These results suggest that most of the epileptic seizures in children with TSC may be generated by glucose hypometabolic regions associated with either the dysplastic cortex surrounding a tuber or the tuber itself. Further studies of patients with depth electrodes are required to determine whether epileptic seizures are generated by a cortical tuber itself or the cortex surrounding a tuber in children with TSC. (Supported by NIH: K23NS047550.) 1 Chad Carlson, 1 Catherine Schevon, 3 Werner Doyle, 3 Howard Weiner, 2 Joshua Cappell, 2 Ronald Emerson, 2 Lawrence Hirsch, 2 Robert Goodman, 1 Orrin Devinsky, 1 Steven Pacia, and 1 Ruben Kuzniecky ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurological Institute, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: Traditional review of scalp and intracranial subdural video-EEG studies rely primarily upon the visual analysis of the interictal and ictal patterns. In many patients, particularly those with multifocal or neocortical epilepsy, seizures are difficult to localize due to rapid spread of ictal activity and high frequency rhythms that may elude detection, potentially affecting the surgical outcome. Time-frequency analysis is a conceptually simple technique that, when applied to intracranial EEG recordings, may reveal information that is not apparent to visual inspection alone. To facilitate its use, an easily interpreted visual presentation was created that provides an overview of the activity of the complete EEG montage. This case series examines the role of spectral time-frequency analysis in five patients with medically refractory epilepsy who underwent invasive subdural electrode video-EEG studies. Methods: Interictal and ictal recordings were studied from five patients who underwent intracranial subdural electrode studies for seizure localization as part of a presurgical evaluation. Time-frequency spectral analysis was performed on all channels over sequential one-second time windows. The spectrogram over the 1?200 Hz frequency range was displayed using a colormap with intensity corresponding to the logarithm of the FFT of the input signal over a one-second time window; the colormap is fixed for a given sequence to allow comparisons over time and between channels. EEG was recorded on a Nicolet Bravo system with a sampling rate of 400 Hz/channel and bandpass filtered (4th order Butterworth) at 0.5?125 Hz. All computations were implemented in Matlab. Results: Spectral analysis of seizure onsets are shown for the five patients and compared to the clinical interpretation. In four cases, the additional information provided confirmatory support for the clinical localization, while in the fourth case the analysis supported an alternative candidate seizure focus, an observation consistent with the surgical outcome. Conclusions: This case series illustrates the complementary role of spectral time-frequency analysis in the setting of intracranial EEG recordings, as well as the importance of a unified presentation that permits direct comparisons between channels. The role of this technique in providing information not apparent on visual EEG interpretation and its contribution to the evaluation of complex neocortical epilepsies, as well as its potential effect on surgical outcome, warrants further assessment. (Supported by FACES.) 1 Wanpracha A. Chaovalitwongse, 2 Rajesh C. Sachdeo, 3 Panos M. Pardalos, 4 Leonidas D. Iasemidis, and 5 J. C. Sackellares ( 1 Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ ; 2 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, St. Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ ; 3 Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 4 Bioengineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ ; and 5 Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: At least 2 million people in the U.S. (1% of population) currently suffer from epilepsy. The most disabling aspect of epilepsy is recurrent seizures, in which the majority of epileptic patients (at least 1 million) feel that they get inadequate treatments or seizures cannot be controlled by available treatments. It is very clear that improved treatments are desperately needed. In this study, we herein propose novel quantitative approaches that can detect abnormalities in the brain's electrical activity. The results of this study will pave our way to the development of an Automated Brain Activity Classifier, which is a prerequisite of seizure prediction process. Methods: Continuous 26-channel long-term intracranial EEG recordings previously obtained in 3 patients with medically intractable partial seizures were used to test the automated brain activity classifier. Patient 1 had 15 seizures in a 10-day recording; patient 2 had 8 seizures in 6 days; patient 3 had 7 seizures in 12 days. The automated brain activity classifier involved the following steps: (1) quantify the chaoticity properties (i.e., Lyapunov exponents, angular frequency, entropy) of the brain dynamics, (2a) use the statistical cross validation technique to estimate statistical distances between an EEG epoch and the brain activity from different physiological states (normal, pre-seizure, post-seizure), (2b) use optimization techniques to find support vector machines to separate different brain physiological states, (3) classify the EEG epoch to the physiological state of the most brain activity (smallest statistical distance). Results: The sensitivities of the statistical cross validation approach in classifying pre-seizure EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 89.39%, 85.71%, and 84.44%, respectively and the sensitivities in classifying normal EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 93.50%, 78.00%, and 75.00%, respectively. The sensitivities of the support vector machines approach in classifying pre-seizure EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 81.21%, 71.18%, and 74.13%, respectively and the sensitivities in classifying normal EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 87.46%, 76.85%, and 70.60%, respectively. Conclusions: Based on the proposed statistical classification approaches, this automated brain activity classifier can classify EEG epochs into the accurate brain physiological state with performance characteristics that could have practical clinical utility. The classifier could be incorporated into clinical EEG monitoring system or, incorporated into a seizure warning system used to activate timed physiological or pharmacological interventions. 1 Lei Ding, 2 Gregory A. Worrell, 2 Terrence D. Lagerlund, and 1 Bin He ( 1 Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Minnesota ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic ) Rationale: Substantial interest exists in the development of noninvasive localization of epileptogenic foci, since the current standard utilization of subdural electrocorticography and depth electrodes requires surgical implantation with some additional risks to the patient. The aim of the present study is to evaluate a novel noninvasive source localization approach for localizing epileptogenic foci from scalp EEG. Methods: The traditional dipole source localization approach faces problems for multiple dipole source localization as the number of sources increases. We recently developed a new subspace source localization approach, i.e. three-dimensional first principle vectors (3D-FINE), for EEG-based epileptic focus localization (Xu et al, Phys Med  2 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; and 3 Neurology and Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Ten to twenty percent of children with facial port-wine stain (PWS) develop neurologic features characteristic of Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS), which may include seizures, visual field defects, hemiparesis, and cognitive impairment. Screening often involves serial neuroimaging, which carries a sedation risk and is often falsely negative in infants. We have reported that decreased power on the affected side correlated with neurologic impairments in subjects with SWS, and efforts are ongoing to develop quantitative EEG (qEEG) as a tool for early diagnosis in SWS. Methods: Three infants with unilateral facial port-wine stains had standard 16-channel EEG recordings at approximately 4 month intervals. Thirty artifact-free, two-second epochs were selected from each record. Bipolar data from each epoch was submitted to a fast Fourier transform with a frequency resolution of 0.5 Hz. Power spectra from each side of the head were compared using a laterality score (LS = (Left - Right)/(Left + Right). The LS were calculated for delta (2.0?3.5 Hz), theta (4.0?7.5 Hz), alpha (8.0?12.5 Hz), beta (13.0?32.0 Hz), and total power (2?32 Hz). All EEGs were independently read by an experienced electroencephalographer. Results: Subject #1 had a left-sided PWS and initially left-sided brain involvement with his first focal seizure at 8 months of age. EEGs at 11 and 15 months were read as symmetric, but quantitative EEG showed significantly lower power in the left hemisphere. MRI at this time showed left-sided leptomeningeal angiomatosis. MRI at 18 months showed bilateral occipital lesions. Further EEGs at 19 and 23 months yielded no statistically significant asymmetries in total power, possibly reflecting either his bilateral involvement or normal development and fully controlled seizures. Subject #2 had EEGs at 2, 6, and 10 months of age that were read as normal; however, qEEG showed significantly lower ipsilateral power at 2 and 10 months. MRI at 6 months showed unilateral leptomeningeal enhancement. This child has never seized and is developmentally normal. Subject #3 had a single EEG at 4 months that was read as normal; qEEG showed no significant asymmetry. MRI at six months showed no stigmata of SWS. This infant has had neither seizures nor any neurodevelopmental delay. Subjects #2 and #3 will continue to have EEGs every 3 months for a total of two years. Conclusions: In infants with a unilateral port-wine stain, serial qEEG shows decreases in power over the hemisphere that is affected or at-risk for neurological impairment. Further studies are needed to determine if qEEG is a reliable and sensitive method for identifying children with unilateral PWS who need neuroimaging and determining the optimal timing of imaging. 1 Michael D. Furman, 1 Jennifer D. Simonotto, 2 Paul R. Carney, and 1 William L. Ditto ( 1 Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 2 Department of Pediatric Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Currently, neural activity and focus localization in epileptic patients is essential for pre-surgical evaluation. Several methods have been devised to locate activity by applying combinations of EEG, MEG, PET, SPECT, and fMRI. Phase-Dynamic Quantification combines Recurrence Quantification Analysis, phase correlation, and three-dimensional temporal and spatial alignment to track seizure activity along with pre- and postictal responses. Utilizing high-frequency (12?25kHz) multi-channel brain activity, we introduce a method for correlating dynamic temporal phase which permits tracking of the seizure focus. Methods: Multichannel neuronal potentials were collected synchronously over the course of 2 mos from a chronically seizing animal model of limbic epilepsy (n = 1). Arrays of tungsten microwire electrodes were stereotaxically implanted in the dentate and CA1-2 of the hippocampus. Neuronal activity was recorded at 24414.1Hz. Electrode placement and CA1-2/Dentate targeting were verified post-mortem using a high-field (17.6 Tesla) MRI brain imaging instrument. Hippocampus depth and grid recording were also obtained in humans undergoing presurgical epilepsy evaluations (n = 2). Cortical activity was recorded continuously at 400Hz. All data sets were analyzed for phase correlation. Results: In all time series analyzed, the results demonstrated a well-defined seizure path within the epileptogenic focus. In each human data set, phase correlation coincided with the seizure focus that was determined by visual analysis of temporal lobe depth and grid recordings. Figure shows dynamic moving focus phase correlation using three 400 Hz signals. Conclusions: Phase-Dynamic Quantification reveals epilepsy as a highly organized contiguous neural pathway that can be localized and tracked. This method may of clinical utility assist with seizure localization. (Supported by Office of Naval Research Funding, National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, Children's Miracle Network.) 1 Georges A. Ghacibeh, 2 Deng-Shan Shiau, 2 Linda Dance, 1 Stephan Eisenschenk, and 1,2,3 J. Chris Sackellares ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 2 Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Department of Biomedical Engeneering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Short-Term Maximum Lyapunov Exponent (STLmax) is a measure of the order of a dynamical system. Smaller STLmax values indicate that the signal is more ordered. In temporal lobe epilepsy, the dynamical properties of the preictal, ictal and postictal states are distinctly different and can be defined quantitatively. STLmax has been observed to be the lowest during a seizure, intermediate in the preictal period and highest in the postictal state. Antiepileptic medications are known to reduce seizure frequency in most epilepsy patients. We postulate that high levels of antiepileptic medications are associated with higher STLmax. The objectives of this study are to compare STLmax values from intracranial EEG recordings when patients have high, medium and low levels of antiepileptic medications. Methods: Two patients with intracranial subdural grids were recruited: patient 1 had right fronto-temporal and patient 2 had left fronto-central grids. Patients were tapered off their antiepileptic medications to record seizures. Patient 1 was on phenytoin, levetiracetam, carbamazepine and zonisamide and Patient 2 was levetiracetam and topiramate. Medication dosages were collected daily for all antiepileptic drugs during the entire monitoring period and medication levels were obtained for the older drugs. For each patient, three distinct time segments were determined based on their medication dosages and levels. Day 1: high medication levels, Day 2: medium levels and Day 3: low levels. All three segments were chosen to be at least 6 hours prior or after a seizure. For each patient, a total of 8 channels were selected for analysis. Four channels were within the epileptic focus and four outside the epileptic focus. For each analyzed electrode, STLmax was calculated for each non-overlapping 10.24 second segment (4096 EEG points in 400 Hz recording). A total of 100 mean STLmax values were randomly sampled from time intervals in each of the three medication levels. One-way ANOVA test was applied to test the significance of the effect among medication levels. If the effect was found significant, multiple comparison tests were utilized to test the significance of pairwise differences. Results: In both patients, within both epileptic and non-epileptic areas, EEG signals recorded during high medication level (day 1) exhibited significantly higher (p < 0.01) STLmax values (less ordered) than during medium (day 2) and low (day 3) medication levels. Conclusions: Antiepileptic medications have an influence on STLmax. High levels are associated with increased STLmax value. This effect may be related to the anticonvulsant properties of these medications. 1 Julie D. Golomb, 2 Michel Shamy, 2 April R. Levin, 2 Kathryn Davis, 2 Kelly A. McNally, 3 Kenneth Vives, 3 Dennis D. Spencer, 2,3 Susan S. Spencer, 2 Hitten Zaveri, and 1,2,3,4 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 2 Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; and 4 Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Prior studies suggest that temporal lobe seizures cause impaired function in widespread neocortical areas in addition to mesial temporal lobe regions. A recent study by Blumenfeld et al. (NEUROLOGY, 2004) found increased low voltage fast and polyspike ictal activity in ipsilateral mesial and lateral temporal regions, with simultaneous large amplitude ictal slowing in frontoparietal regions. However, these observations were based on subjective ratings of the intracranial EEG recordings and were not correlated with behavior. In the present study we employ quantitative analyses to more accurately describe ictal and post-ictal changes associated with various brain regions during complex and simple partial seizures. Methods: 12 Patients with surgically confirmed mesial temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent intracranial EEG monitoring and had no seizures during a follow-up period of at least 1 year after temporal lobe resection were selected for analysis. Seizures that secondarily generalized were excluded. Electrode contacts were assigned to one of nine cortical regions based on MRI surface reconstructions. Power measurements for classically defined spectral bands were calculated with the Fourier transform for the ictal and peri-ictal time periods for each EEG signal. Results: A small, brief increase in beta (13?25 Hz) and gamma (25?50 Hz) frequency power was seen in ipsilateral mesial temporal regions immediately following seizure onset. This was followed by a much larger increase in alpha (8?13 Hz), beta, gamma, and particularly theta (4?8 Hz) power in ipsilateral mesial and lateral temporal regions. Simultaneously, a large increase in delta (0?4 Hz) power was seen in lateral, medial, and orbital frontal regions, which sometimes persisted throughout the post-ictal period. Subclinical seizures involved transient changes confined to the ipsilateral mesial temporal contacts. Although considerable between-patient variability was found, individual patients showed remarkable consistency in EEG patterns across their seizures. Conclusions: Quantitative power analysis showed increased high frequency activity in temporal regions and low frequency activity in frontal regions during partial seizures of temporal lobe origin. These results support and expand upon previous studies of EEG activity positing that neocortical slowing represents a form of ?surround inhibition? during such seizures. Further analyses may reveal specific differences between EEG signals in complex and simple partial seizures, and contribute to an understanding of behavioral manifestations of temporal lobe seizures. 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to investigate whether Independent Component Analysis (ICA) can be applied in intracranial recordings to analyze interactions between the temporal lobes during temporal lobe seizures. ICA has already been used in scalp EEGs to isolate spikes from background and to help lateralize temporal lobe seizures Methods: Intracranial recordings of temporal lobe seizures from 8 patients with bitemporal implantation were analyzed. Scalp EEG recordings showed that the patients had seizures originating from both temporal lobes. The seizures of each patient were classified in four categories: unilateral right or left (UR or UL), and bilateral with right or left onset (BR or BL). ICA decomposes the EEG into as many statistically independent components as there are channels. ICA was applied to the seizures, and only components with ictal activity in the first 10 seconds of the seizure were studied. Correlation coefficients were calculated between these components and every channel of the original EEG, in the time interval preceding the appearance of bilateral activity. Components were classified as unilateral if their correlation was greater than 0.2 exclusively with channels in one hemisphere; if the correlation was greater than 0.2 with channels in both hemispheres, the component was labeled as bilateral. Nonparametric statistics were applied. Results: 46 seizures were analyzed (11 UR, 13 UL, 12 BR and 10 BL). There were five patients with seizures beginning independently in both temporal lobes, two patients with right temporal seizures only, and one patient with left temporal seizures only. Even though the correlation was calculated when seizure activity was unilateral, the proportion of components that were bilateral was significantly lower (p = 0.001) in seizures that stayed unilateral (22% for UR and 26% for UL) than in seizures that became bilateral (46% for BR and 48% for BL). There were no significant differences between right and left seizures. Bilateral seizures were significantly longer than unilateral seizures (p = 0.000), but the duration of the seizure was not significantly correlated (p > 0.05) with the proportion of bilateral components. Conclusions: In patients with bitemporal epilepsy, more than 20% of the components extracted using ICA have a bitemporal distribution even at the time when the seizures are apparently unilateral. The proportion of bilateral components during the unilateral phase is significantly higher in seizures with subsequent contralateral spread. It therefore appears that minimal contralteral seizure activity is present even when the discharge appears unilateral, and that the more such contralateral activity is present, the more the seizure is likely to spread. (Supported by CIHR Grant # MOP 38079 Postdoctoral research grant from the Department of Education of the Basque Government.) 1 C. Grova, 2 J. Daunizeau, 1 A. Bagshaw, 1 E. Kobayashi, 2 J.M. Lina, 1 F. Dubeau, and 1 J. Gotman ( 1 Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill U., Montreal, QC, Canada ; and 2 Centre de Recherche en Mathématiques, Montreal, Canada ) Rationale: The first objective is to compare two imaging modalities to better identify brain areas where spikes are generated: ? EEG source localization, which allows estimating a current density along the cortical surface at each time sample of the spike ? Simultaneous EEG/fMRI, which allows measuring the hemodynamic correlates of EEG activity Those modalities highlight several aspects of spike generation, because signals have different physiological origins and complementary spatial and temporal resolutions. Moreover, EEG source localization has no unique solution and adding prior information is necessary. The second objective is to evaluate whether it is relevant to include fMRI information in EEG source localization. Methods: 9 patients with focal epilepsy underwent EEG/fMRI examination and EEG recording outside the scanner. The EEG/fMRI protocol consists of recording 19 EEG channels inside the MR scanner. After manual detection of interictal spikes, data were analysed using a linear model combining several hemodynamic responses after each spike. T maps showing brain areas with significant fMRI responses were interpolated on the cortical surface, to compare with EEG source localization. Source localization was applied to averaged spikes recorded outside the scanner (43 channels). We applied the Maximum Entropy on the Mean (MEM) approach 1 to estimate the current density on the cortical surface at each time sample of the spike. fMRI results were compared with MEM results obtained at the peaks of the spike. The level of concordance was assessed by measuring the minimal geodesic distance D between local extrema of the fMRI and MEM maps. We also measured an index A to assess whether fMRI could be included as a prior for EEG source localization, using a hierarchical Bayesian model 2. Large positive values of A mean that fMRI data were highly relevant information regarding EEG data. Results: 3 patients did not show any fMRI response. Among the 6 other patients, MEM and fMRI results showed good concordance in 4 (D < 2.5 cm). However, qualitative analysis revealed that most exhibited concordant areas and areas unique to each modality. Our index A was in good agreement with the qualitative comparison of MEM and fMRI results. Conclusions: Our study highlights that EEG source localization and EEG/fMRI clearly explored different phenomena linked to spike generation. Brain areas involved could be concordant or complementary regarding both modalities. The index of relevance A seems promising to decide whether fMRI or a part of the fMRI map should be used as prior for source localization. By analysing more data, those approaches may provide a better understanding of the mechanisms involved during spike generation and propagation. REFERENCES 1.?Amblard C et al 2004 IEEE TBME, 51(3). 2.?Daunizeau J et al 2005 IEEE TSPS, in press (Supported by Canadian Institute of Health Research, Jeanne Timmins Costello Fellowship.) 1 Kurt E. Hecox, 1 Fengmei Lui, 1 Seaon Marler, 1 Jennifer Dwyer, 1 Michael Kohrman, 1 Arnetta McGhee, and 1 Joel Fontanarosa ( 1 Pediatrics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Dynamic Systems analysis has been applied to the study of interictal and ictal EEG data for more than a decade. Abnormalities in these measures have been reported in the detection, prediction and localization of seizures. The purpose of this study is to extend these observations to the pediatric population, to compare ictal data to three forms of baseline data and to describe some of the features of the spatial distribution of the systems changes, for multiple metrics. Methods: Intracranial and extracranial recordings were obtained from a series of pediatric aged patients undergoing evaluation for surgical treatment. Ages varied from 5 to 19 years of age. Three examples of seizures, interictal sleep, interictal awake and preictal (within one minute of seizure onset) were selected and analyzed for each patient. Metrics were calculated for correlation dimension (least squares), correlation dimension (maximum likelihood), Kolmogorov entropy, eigenvalues and Z (a global measure of nonlinearity) in each case. These metrics were calculated for at least eight surface electrodes (four over each hemisphere) and for at least 16 intracranial electrodes. The intracranial electrodes were further subdivided into ?involved? versus ?uninvolved? in the ictal event according to visual analysis. These data were subjected to analysis of variance and chi square analyses. Results: Eighty percent of the ictal events were detectable. Differences were seen between sleep and wakefulness baselines for 70% of the the group. Preictal changes were seen for 40% of the group, compared to baseline. Seemingly uninvolved electrodes show changes in these metrics both ictally and interictally. The magnitude of the change and the metris showing the changes varied across patients but eigenvalue was most commonly changed amongst the measures. Eigenvalue and correlation dimension (least squares) were the least specific spatially, while Kolmogorov entropy and Z were the most spatially specific. Conclusions: We continue to observe ictal changes in dynamic systems measures in pediatric aged patients with seizures. The measures are also abnormal in a number of patients interictally. No single metric is complete enough to stand alone, from a detection or anticipation perspective. Anticipation was possible in nearly half of the cases. The most surprising findings of this study were that electrodes felt to be ?control? or uninvolved in the seizures can show significant changes in these metrics and that the metrics vary considerably in their spatial specificity. Localizing a focus using these metrics must be performed with considerable caution. Further, the differences in spatial distribution across metrics suggest that these metrics do not all reflect the operation of a single process. (Supported by Falk Medical Trust Foundation.) 1 Christophe C. Jouny, 1 Piotr J. Franaszczuk, and 1 Gregory K. Bergey ( 1 Department of Neurology - Epilepsy Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Partial seizures originate from focal regions of epileptogenesis. The dynamic of seizure onset and pattern of ictal discharges may reflect the cerebral region of seizure onset. To date, however, these observations have been largely derived from visual analysis or simple frequency characterization. We here report detailed comparative analysis of seizure dynamics at seizure onset. Methods: We analyzed data from multiple partial seizures from patients with mesial temporal onset epilepsy (MTLE; n = 3) or with neocortical lesional epilepsy (NLE; n = 6) monitored in the epilepsy monitoring unit for presurgical evaluation with intracranial subdural grid arrays. The time-frequency decomposition was obtained with the matching pursuit (MP) method. The Gabor atom density (GAD) (Jouny et al. 2003), derived from MP, provides a measure of signal complexity. Different features of the intracranial EEG (ICEEG) or of GAD can be used to synchronize seizures. Onset of complexity increase was used to synchronize the events. Time-frequency maps reconstructed from the MP decomposition were then re-aligned and averaged. Results: GAD plots reveal that all mesial temporal onset seizures and neocortical onset seizures have an increase in complexity at seizure onset and have a reproducible pattern of onset. These consistent features can be used to synchronize the events. Because of the slight variability in timing between different phases of the seizure, one can enhance the visibility of any of these phases by choosing their feature as the synchronizing event for the re-alignment. Onset features which are not time-locked will not be enhanced by averaging. In this study, averaged seizure onsets exhibit distinguishable predominant frequency components in 5 out of 9 patients (either ?7Hz, ?15Hz, ?20Hz or ?40Hz) or activities with a broader spectral signature in 3 out of 9 patients. Conclusions: The assumption that multiple seizure onsets in a given patient have stereotypical features is based predominantly on clinical experience and visual analysis. We studied here the detailed time-frequency components of partial seizures and, by averaging their reconstructed maps, isolated the components that are common to all seizures. One of the advantage of the method was to reveal an onset pattern including high-frequency components (>40Hz) with a decreasing main frequency which was not evident on ICEEG. High-frequency components during onset might go unnoticed - especially when embedded in electrodecrement pattern of onset. High-frequency recordings and detailed time-frequency analysis can reveal the dynamic evolution of onsets and provide important information regarding timing of onset pattern and localization. (Supported by NIH grant NS 33732.) 1 Anna Korzeniewska, 2 Rafal Kus, 1 Piotr Franaszczuk, 3 Ciprian Crainiceanu, and 1 Nathan E. Crone ( 1 Department of Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; 2 Laboratory of Medical Physics, Warsaw University, Warsaw, Poland ; and 3 Department of Biostatistics, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: The cortical regions responsible for word production have been mapped with a variety of techniques, but the dynamic interactions between these cortical regions in real time have yet to be explored in depth. To investigate these interactions we recorded electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals while subjects spoke words in response to either visual or auditory stimuli, and we studied event-related gamma activity flows among different cortical regions. Methods: The short-time direct directed transfer function (SdDTF) is a new method for estimating causal interactions between different brain regions. SdDTF evaluates the direction and intensity of EEG activity flows during consecutive short-time epochs, for selected frequency bands. This multichannel approach enables comparisons of the strengths of relations between sites. ECoG signals recorded during two tasks, word repetition (auditory stimulus) and picture naming (visual stimulus), were analyzed. Event-related changes in cortical network interactions were studied with emphasis on 60?140 Hz (high gamma). Results: Auditory word stimuli were associated with activity flows mainly between sites within superior temporal gyrus (STG) and from STG to inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and to ventral sensorimotor cortex (vSMC); interactions between STG and basal temporal language area (BTLA) were also observed. In the interval between offset of the auditory word stimulus and onset of the verbal response, flows were observed predominantly from STG to IFG and BTLA. Flows between IFG, STG, and vSMC were also present. During picture naming the interval between onset of the stimulus and the verbal response was associated with many bidirectional interactions between IFG and STG, and between IFG, BTLA and vSMC. Spoken responses to both visual and auditory stimuli were associated with relatively fewer interactions, albeit involving all aforementioned sites. Conclusions: Cortical network interactions during word production predictably depend on stimulus modality. These interactions are reflected by changes in high-gamma activity flows between and within cortical regions commonly involved in language processing. (Supported by NINDS R01-NS41598.) 1 Lorant Kovacs, 2 Nandor Ludvig, 2 Orrin Devinsky, and 2 Ruben I. Kuzniecky ( 1 Software Division, ESCO, Garden Grove, CA ; and 2 Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The objective was to develop a program (?SeizureGuard?) that is ideal for recognizing/predicting EEG seizures, real-time, within the limited power resources of future, fully implanted therapeutic devices, like the hybrid neuroprosthesis. Methods: Instead of handling the EEG signals as a succession of waves, the SeizureGuard program decomposed these signals into vectors, describing each vector with its angle and magnitude. From the derived vector-stream, the program computed various neurobiologically relevant parameters, including inter-vector interval and vector-periodicity. These parameters were indexed according to their relevance to the characteristics of electrographic seizure-onsets. No complex numbers were used in the calculations. To validate the algorithm, a data miner utility program was utilized to extract continuous EEG signals from files generated with a Nicolet BMSI 6000 recording system. All recordings were obtained from temporal lobe epilepsy patients presurgically implanted with subdural strip- and grid-electrodes. Results: The program accurately recognized subclinical EEG seizures within 1?2 sec from their onset. Artifacts and non-epileptic rhythmic discharges and large-amplitude waves were not falsely indicated. Interestingly, the occasional false-positive seizure detections by the program in the interictal phase actually indicated bursts of sharp waves/spikes that occurred in the recording channel(s) of seizure activity. Conclusions: The SeizureGuard program, utilizing a computationally inexpensive algorithm that decomposes the EEG waves into vectors, is suitable for recognizing the onsets of focal subclinical seizures and has the potential to indicate epileptiform events prior to these seizures. As such, it seems to be ideal for use in implanted seizure-controlling devices. (Supported by NYU/FACES.) 1 Yuan Lai, 2 Wim Van Drongelen, 2 David M. Frim, 2 Kurt E. Hecox, and 1 Bin He ( 1 Biomedical Engineering, University of Minnesota ; and 2 Pediatrics, University of Chicago ) Rationale: In past decades, epilepsy surgery has been recognized increasingly as a viable treatment for patients with medically refractory seizures. However, the large gap between number of potential surgical candidates and number of patients being treated with surgery still exists due to the lengthy, complex, and expensive procedure of current practice of using invasive procedures to identify epileptic foci responsible for the seizures. If epileptic foci can be identified noninvasively, numerous epilepsy patients undergoing surgical treatment will benefit significantly from the noninvasive surgical planning. The aim of present study is to evaluate a novel noninvasive electrophysiological cortical imaging technique (He et al., IEEE-TBME, 46:1264?1268, 1999) to image and localize ictal activities from scalp EEG. Methods: All patients are pediatric patients with intractable partial epilepsy in the Pediatric Epilepsy Center at the University of Chicago. For each patient, multiple habitual seizures were visually identified according to the IFSECN criteria. Seizure activities with sudden propagation to whole brain were excluded from further analysis. For ictal EEG recordings with sustained rhythmic focal morphology, time-frequency analysis has been applied as preprocessing. Spatial-temporal evolution of ictal discharges were examined using wavelet analysis to obtain a time-varying energy distribution in each frequency band. The dominant frequency is determined with highest energy concentration, at which the phase encoding is used for multi-channel EEG around seizure onset to generate a scalp potential map representing the major ictal activity. The cortical imaging algorithm (He et al., 1999) was then applied to reconstruct the cortical potential distribution from the phase encoded scalp potential map. Since pediatric patients usually have seizure originating from neocortex, the estimated cortical potential generated by different underlying sources are less likely to overlap so that it can be used to observe the source activity with much less deviation as compared to that from a deeper source. Results: Five pediatric epilepsy patients by various causes were studied, who are either seizure free or having substantial seizure reduction after neurosurgical resections. For all patients, the cortical imaging analysis has been able to successfully reveal underlying epileptogenic cortical zones at different lobes (temporal or extra-temporal, one or two epileptogenic foci for each patient), which are consistent with clinical findings and confirmed by neurosurgical resections and outcomes. Conclusions: Cortical imaging can reliably localize cortical activity in regions displaying epileptiform activity; these regions were confirmed by successful surgical resection. Cortical imaging may become a useful alternative for noninvasive pre-surgical and surgical planning in pediatric epilepsy patients. (Supported by NIH EB 00178 and NSF BES-0411898.) 1 Pierre LeVan, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: The objective of this study was to devise an automated system to remove artefacts from ictal scalp EEG, using independent component analysis (ICA). Current ICA methods rely on a tedious visual identification of artefactual sources among extracted components, hence the desire for a fully automated method. Methods: 69 ictal scalp recordings from 16 epileptic patients were analyzed. The seizures were contaminated by various artefacts such as eye movements, EMG, and patient movement. For each seizure, ICA was applied to a 30s interval beginning approximately 10s before the suspected seizure onset. The extracted independent components were divided into 2s epochs and each epoch was labelled as either EEG or non-EEG. Data from half of the patients was used as a training set to induce a Bayesian network classifier, while the remaining data was reserved for use as a validation set. The classifier used the following features: component negentropy, epoch variance, spectral entropy between 5 and 30Hz, and relative power in several frequency bands. The spatial distribution of each component was then fitted with a dipole, the position of which was also used as a feature whenever the residual variance of the fit was less than 20%. For each 2s epoch, the output of the classifier was the probability that the epoch represented EEG activity. A component was considered to be artefactual if the sum of the probabilities for its 15 epochs was less than 4. To evaluate the performance of the system, an expert neurologist reviewed the original seizure recordings in the validation set and compared them with the records reconstructed after rejection of the artefactual components. A qualitative score was given with respect to the reduction of artefactual activity and the preservation of EEG activity. Results: The validation set contained 33 seizures from 8 patients. The system correctly classified 5047/5920 (85%) EEG epochs and 5628/6950 (81%) non-EEG epochs. The reviewer noted that 23 seizures were contaminated by a significant amount of artefacts. After the automated rejection of artefactual components, the reviewer determined that the majority of artefacts were removed in 17 seizures, while 5 of them had minor improvements, and only 1 record had no reduction of artefactual activity. The system preserved all the EEG activity in 17 seizures, attenuated some minor EEG activity in 4 cases, and removed some significant ictal activity in the remaining 2 cases. The automated method was also applied to the 10 seizures that did not contain significant artefacts; in 9 cases, all the EEG activity was preserved, while the remaining case had only minor EEG attenuation. Conclusions: Temporal and spatial features of ICA components were used in a Bayesian framework to classify component epochs as either EEG or non-EEG. This allowed the proposed system to automatically eliminate a large proportion of artefactual components in ictal scalp recordings, while minimally affecting the EEG activity. (Supported by NSERC CGS-M, CIHR MOP-10189.) 1 John W. Miller, 1 Wonsuk Kim, 1 Mark Holmes, and 2 Sampsa Vanhatalo ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Clinical Neurophysiology, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland ) Rationale: We recently described techniques to perform longterm DC-coupled EEG recordings at the bedside, and have used these methods to demonstrate that inspection of infraslow (<0.5 Hz) activity can correctly lateralize temporal lobe seizures (Vanhatalo et al, Neurology.60:1098, 2003). However, even high amplitude infraslow activity can sometimes be difficult to localize by simple visual inspection if there is considerable overlying faster EEG activity or obscuring slow artifact. Also, this earlier study did not investigate extratemporal seizures, which are often more difficult to localize. We address these issues with improvements in the DC-coupled EEG recording and analysis technique, and by extending our observation to seizures arising from a variety of cerebral regions. Methods: Recordings were performed on patients receiving presurgical monitoring for medically intractable localization related epilepsy with 20 seizures in 11 patients included in analysis. Recordings used a commercial system for DC-coupled recording, with sintered Ag/AgCl electrodes in a standard array defined by the 10:10 system, with additional anterior temporal electrodes, as well as subtemporal chains. Afterwards, ictal events were exported to an EEG analysis software package (BESA 5.0) to review the seizures with source montages. Recognition and localization of the infraslow signal was made easier (i) by compressing the time scale (30 to 90 seconds per screen), ii) by filtering the signal in time domain (i.e. regular high pass/low pass or band pass filtering), iii) by filtering the signal in space (e.g. with a source montage), and iv) by using a moving average to smooth the recording. The spatial filtering properties of the source montage also makes it easier to differentiate the ictal change from physiological artifacts, such as eye movements, that arise from other head regions. In addition, the time frequency characteristics of some seizures were analysed by FFT and by use of Morlet wavelets. Results: Infraslow signals were present with all focal seizures, sometimes with amplitude orders of magnitude higher than the ictal signals in the convention EEG frequency band (0.5 to 70 Hz). Analysis of these infraslow signals was a reliable localization tool. Five patients in this study received epilepsy surgery and had follow-up documenting significant seizure reduction, and analysis of infraslow signals correctly localized epileptic foci in all five, while conventional noninvasive EEG recording with visual analysis of seizures correctly localized only two. Conclusions: DC-coupled EEG recordings can give additional information that is clinically useful to noninvasively localize the epileptogenic focus. The value of this method is increased by source analysis tools that can reveal highly localized changes more clearly than direct visual inspection. (Supported by The UW Regional Epilepsy Center.) 1 Victoria L. Morgan, 2 Eliane Kobayashi, 2 Andrew Bagshaw, 2 Colin Hawco, 3 Bassel Abou-Khalil, 2 Francois Dubeau, and 2 Jean Gotman ( 1 Radiology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ; 2 Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, Canada ; and 3 Neurology, Vanderbilt Unversity, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Simultaneous fMRI and EEG may localize the generators of interictal spikes recorded on scalp EEG. Temporal clustering analysis (TCA) is a method to analyze fMRI images independently of EEG information. TCA seeks to identify resting state activations related to the epileptogenic zone. The objective of this study was to compare the results of these two analyses in a series of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Methods: BOLD fMRI images were acquired in 22 TLE patients on a 1.5T MRI scanner with simultaneous continuous EEG in two-hour sessions at the MNI (64 ?64 ?25, 5mm ? 5mm ? 5mm, TR = 3sec, 120 volumes per series, 8?10 series per patient). For EEG-BOLD analysis, EEGs were processed offline and spikes were identified in the filtered EEG for event-related analysis. For the TCA-BOLD analysis, only the first three series were used. Data were analyzed by previously published TCA methods in which a histogram is created indicating the number of voxels that reach at least 80% of their maximum at each time point. Activated regions were determined by using a fixed-effects analysis of the three series. The concordance of the temporal lobe activation identified by the two methods and the temporal lobe spikes were assessed. Patients were divided into those with unilateral and those with bilateral independent temporal lobe spikes on EEG. One patient's fMRI was not analyzed due to excess motion. Results: Fourteen patients had unilateral spikes on EEG: 12/14 had TCA-BOLD temporal activation (6 were ipsilateral to the EEG spikes, and 2 had bilateral activation with predominance ipsilateral to the spikes) and 9/14 showed EEG-BOLD activation (2 were ipsilateral to the EEG spikes, 5 had bilateral activation with predominance ipsilateral to the spikes, one had bilateral activation with no side predominance). Seven patients had bilateral independent temporal spikes on EEG: all patients showed TCA-BOLD activation in the temporal lobes, but it was bilateral (concordant with the EEG) in 3; 4/7 patients showed EEG-BOLD temporal lobe activation, bilateral in 3. Overall, we observed an agreement between both methods in 7/11 patients. Conclusions: Activations in the temporal lobes were detected in 90% of patients using TCA-BOLD and in 68% using EEG-BOLD. TCA, which has the advantage of not using the information from the EEG, was concordant with EEG-BOLD analysis in 64% of those who showed activations, and disclosed responses not present in the former one in 5. TCA-BOLD could lateralize the underlying structural MRI lesion in 52% of the patients, similar to that observed with EEG-BOLD analysis (48%). More development is required for both methods. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Preston Robb MNI fellowship, and Savoy Foundation for Epilepsy.) 1 Amit Mukherjee, 2 Pradeep Modur, and 1 Nicolaos Karayiannis ( 1 Electrical  and 2 Neurology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: We describe a novel method for detection of seizure onset using a quantum neural network (QNN) that was progressively trained by quantitative features (in both the time and frequency domains) extracted from intracranial EEG (iEEG) signals. QNNs are particularly helpful in the classification of uncertain data without any restricting assumptions. [Purushothaman and Karayiannis, IEEE Trans Neural Networks 1997; 8:679?693]. Methods: Raw iEEG data (subdural and depth recordings) from 4 subjects, sampled at 1000 Hz, were analyzed. Bandpass was set from 1.6 to 300 Hz. Seizure onset was marked at the time of earliest change in EEG. The EEG segment, 10 sec before and after seizure onset, was divided into onset epochs (OE), each of 2 sec length, with 50% overlap between consecutive epochs. Background epoch (BE) was defined as the average of 30-sec EEG during the interictal period, preceding the OE by at least 2 min. The signal was decomposed using a Daub-2 wavelet and scales 2 to 6 (corresponding to frequency bins 250?125, 125?63, 63?32, 32?16, 16?8 and 8?4 Hz respectively) were used for feature analysis. Two parameters were computed for each scale: relative energy (ratio of the energy in a given scale in the OE to the energy of the same scale in the BE); average of the distribution tail (ratio of the average of the top 80th percentile squared coefficient to the average of the squared coefficient for a given scale). In addition to this average peak-to-peak amplitude and curve length (measure relating to the fractal dimension) of the OE are also computed and used as features. QNN was initially trained using seizure onset patterns from multiple subjects. With each subsequent seizure, the QNN was progressively re-trained by populating the training with 50% of the epochs belonging to the last seizure, 25% belonging to the previous to last seizure and 25% from a bank containing a variety of patterns from multiple subjects. Decision-making was based on the inherent ability of the QNN to identify and quantify uncertainty, represented by its output values between 0 (non-seizure) and 1 (seizure), in conjuction with a spatio-temporal rule. Thus, seizure onset was reported when the activity was observed in at least 2 adjacent channels and the activity was sustained for at least 6 sec (with QNN output value >0.65). If a channel had reported seizure in the past, its membership threshold was reduced to 0.4 and the spatio-temporal rule was applied. The QNN classifier was tested on 8 seizures from 2 subjects (each with 4 seizures). Results: All the seizure onsets (100%) were detected using the above method. There were only a few false detections. Conclusions: Progressively trained QNNs appear to be promising in detection of intracranial seizure onset. Further investigation will focus on detection of a wider variety of seizure onset patterns in multiple subjects and different decision-making strategies. 1 Ayako Ochi, 1 Hiroshi Otsubo, 1 Ryoichi Iwata, 1 Takanori Funaki, 1 Tomoyuki Akiyama, 1 Rohit Sharma, 1 Shelly K. Weiss, 1 Elizabeth Donner, 1 Irene Elliott, 2 James T. Rutka, and 1 O. Carter Snead III ( 1 Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ; and 2 Neurosurgery, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: High frequency oscillations (HFOs) in the frequency range of 80 Hz and higher has been investigated from ictal subdural EEG data in patients with intractable localization-related epilepsy. Multiple band frequency analysis (MBFA) provides high resolution of frequency changes and time courses in HFOs. We studied ictal HFOs from extraoperative video subdural EEG monitoring (SDEEG) using MBFA to characterize patterns of HFOs in children with intractable neocortical epilepsy. Methods: We retrospectively studied 8 children (3 girls and 5 boys; mean age, 14 years; range, 8 to 17 years) who presented with intractable neocortical epilepsy and underwent SDEEG consisting of 48 to 116 contacts (AD-TECH Medical instrument corporation, Racine, WI, USA). We recorded SDEEG for 48 to 144 hours with 1,000 Hz sampling rate (HARMONY 5.4, Stellate, Montreal, PQ, Canada). We analyzed 4 to 11 seizures by selecting SDEEG data epochs of 10 to 50 seconds including 5 seconds before the ictal EEG onset. We used MBFA using the software program Short Spectrum Eye (Gram, Saitama, Japan) for frequency and distribution analyses of HFOs. The power spectrograms of frequency bands between 5 Hz to 300 Hz were calculated with a frequency resolution of 2 Hz and a temporal resolution of 25 ms. We arranged all power spectrograms in the same order as subdural grid electrodes and evaluated the distribution of HFOs. Results: Seven of 8 patients presented with regionally predominant ictal HFO changes (mean, 23 electrodes). We found two patterns of HFOs consisting of existence or absence of sustained narrow band of HFOs. Four of 7 patients had initial wide range of HFOs (up to 115 Hz) lasting 2 to 5 seconds before the clinical seizure onset, followed by a sustained narrow band of HFOs (mean, 101 Hz) during ictal symptom of partial seizures. The seizures in these 4 patients evolved into secondary generalization. The other three patients had wide range of HFOs (up to 214 Hz) before and after the clinical onset without following sustained narrow band of HFOs. They presented with brief partial seizures in cluster in one patient, epileptic spasms in 2, but they did not evolved into secondarily generalized seizures. The cortical resection areas in 7 patients included the region of predominant HFOs (mean maximum frequency, 138 Hz). They achieved good postsurgical outcomes. The remaining one patient had no regionally predominant ictal HFO changes. This patient has residual partial seizures after frontal cortical excision. Conclusions: MBFA characterized 2 patterns of ictal HFO changes between seizures with and without secondarily generalized in pediatric neocortical epilepsy. The regionally predominant ictal HFOs represented the ictal onset and ictal symptomatogenic zones. 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Florian Mormann, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Dept. of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: Patients suffering from intractable focal epilepsy may benefit from neurosurgical resection of the epileptic focus provided it can be identified via electroencephalographic recording of the seizure onset. A question of interest is whether the focus can be reliably identified from interictal recordings, i.e. without the necessity of observing seizures. Measurements of the synchronization between different EEG channels have been found to be promising for this purpose. Up to now, a number of measures for synchronization have been proposed based on different approaches. In this study a comparison between different linear and nonlinear synchronization measures was performed with respect to two aspects: 1. general performance of the measures in terms of their ability to discriminate the ipsi- from the contralateral hemisphere, 2. comparison of different measures to investigate whether the different approaches render complementary or redundant information. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, each equipped with 10 recording contacts and implanted stereotactically along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampal formation. The total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Several measures of synchronization were calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique, and then averaged over time. For each of the measures the average spatial synchronization in each hemisphere was calculated. A detection of the focal hemisphere was carried out for all measures and patients based on the assumption of a higher average synchronization in the focal hemisphere. True and false lateralizations were compared for different measures. Results: Correct lateralization based on higher synchronization of the focal hemisphere was found to be statistically significant for all measures investigated, although actual performance differed among the investigated measures. False lateralizations for different measures ranged between 6 and 8 out of 30. A comparison of correct and false lateralizations showed a strong similarities between measures. Conclusions: The focal hemisphere in an epileptic brain is characterized by a pathological increase in synchronization. The different measures investigated in this study appear to be sensitive to this increased synchronization. Lateralization analysis using synchronization measures could render additional diagnostic information, although the false lateralizations found in this study could limit its clinical applicability. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1 Houman Khosravani, 2 Robert Pinnegar, 2 Ross Mitchell, and 1 Paolo Federico ( 1 Department of Radiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Univeristy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Visualization of time-frequency changes in EEG has traditionally been visualized using Fourier-based techniques (i.e. Short Time Fourier Transform, STFT). This approach is limited given its fixed-length analysis window and the non-stationary nature of EEG signals. The S Transform is a Fourier-based multi-resolution transform that has a variable length analysis window, thus circumventing the shortcomings of the STFT. In the present study, we introduce a novel application of the S Transform for visualization of normal and epileptiform EEG phenomena in humans. Methods: Selected recordings from five normal subjects and five patients with either focal or generalized epileptiform discharges were used. We identified a single channel that had a clear example of an electrographic feature of interest (e.g. alpha, mu, sleep spindles, eye blink, spike and wave, sharp wave) and applied the S Transform to it. Results: The S Transform provided clear visualization of the frequency components, in time, of the electrographic events. Some of the spectral attributes of these events were not immediately apparent on conventional review of the EEG. Conclusions: The application of the S Transform to EEG is novel and can potentially be a useful tool for visualizing clinically relevant features in EEG. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research.) 1 Catherine Schevon, 2 Joshua Cappell, 3 Werner Doyle, 3 Howard Weiner, 2 Robert Goodman, 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, and 2 Ronald Emerson ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurological Institute, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The presence of localized synchronization of neuronal activity in epilepsy has been well documented in microelectrode and clinical intracranial EEG (ICEEG) recordings. An intriguing hypothesis about the development of epilepsy is that a cortical region, when potentiated by repeated seizures, becomes chronically biased, leading to hypersynchrony. Thus, brain regions most involved in epileptogenesis are marked by chronic local hypersynchrony (LH). In this study, we discuss and illustrate the use of the mean phase synchrony measure to detect and map patterns of locally hypersynchronous neuronal activity in long term ICEEG recordings obtained during the epilepsy presurgical evaluation. Methods: Seven patients with different epilepsy syndromes were studied. Three 5 minute interictal samples from different monitoring days were tested in each case. Two seizures from each patient were studied, with 30 second samples taken from the preictal, ictal, and postictal periods. Interelectrode synchrony was measured using the mean phase coherence algorithm, which calculates the degree of phase locking independent of amplitude. Pairwise synchrony over one-second epochs was calculated for all adjacent channels of a subdural grid located over or near the clinically determined seizure onset zone. LH regions were defined as a set of contiguous channel pairs with average synchrony greater than one standard deviation above the mean for the entire grid. Results: Chronic LH regions were found in all seven patients, with these characteristics: (1) LH persisted over long recording periods and was state-independent. (2) Each patient had a unique pattern of LH regions with different anatomical distributions. (3) In each case, an LH area was associated with the clinically identified the seizure onset zone. (4) In peri-ictal recordings, there was a relative focal desynchronization preictally, a prominent finding in two patients but present to some degree in all seven, and enhanced hypersynchrony postictally. Conclusions: These findings suggest that local hypersynchrony in the EEG is related to abnormalities that underly partial epilepsy. This identification may prove useful in several areas. First, clinical EEG interpretation may be enhanced by using synchrony measurements to help define epileptogenic networks. Second, the described properties may be investigated to shed light on epileptogenic mechanisms. Third, knowledge of network structure and function may lead to improved techniques for disrupting the network to prevent seizures through resection, on-site neurostimulation, or local drug delivery. Fourth, these observations may lead to improved techniques for automated seizure prediction and detection. FACES 1,7 Deng-Shan Shiau, 2,7 Chang-Chia Liu, 2,7 Wichai Suharitdamrong, 2 Panos M. Pardalos, 1,3?5 Paul R. Carney, and 1,3?7 J. Chris Sackellares ( 1 Neuroscience, University of Florida ; 2 Industrial and Systems Engineering ; 3 Pediatrics ; 4 Biomedical Engineering ; 5 Neurology ; 6 Psychiatry, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 7 Malcolm Randall VA Medical Center, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Rapid identification of patients with independent bitemporal seizure onset zones could greatly reduce presurgical evaluation costs. We describe a novel method to identify patients with independent bilateral seizure foci based on a nonlinear characteristic of EEG signals. Signal nonlinear characteristic is quantified by the statistical difference of Short-Term Maximum Lyapunov Exponent (STLmax) values estimated from the original EEG signals and its surrogate dataset. Methods: Eight adults with temporal lobe epilepsy (5 with unilateral temporal onsets and 3 with independent bilateral onsets) were included in this study. Long-term EEG recordings from bilaterally placed depth and subdural electrodes (left and right temporal depth, subtemporal and orbitofrontal) were analyzed. Initial analyses involved the following steps: (1) each EEG signal was divided into 10.24 sec epochs and 10 surrogate EEG time series were generated, (2) STLmax values were estimated for each epoch of the original EEG signal and each of the 10 surrogate EEG signals, (3) T-index, derived from pair-T statistics, was calculated to measure the statistical difference in STLmax values between the original signal and mean values estimated from the 10 surrogate EEGs. Nested two-way ANOVA was applied to test the significance of the brain region effect (patients were random blocks; seizures were nested within patient). Significance level = 0.05 was applied for rejection of the null hypothesis. Results: For each of the five patients with unilateral seizure onset, statistical test revealed that the nonlinear characteristics of EEG signals derived from mesial temporal electrodes within the seizure onset zone are significantly different from those from other areas (p < 0.01). In contrast, the nonlinear characteristics of EEG are not different (p > 0.05) among recording areas in all three patients who experienced bilateral seizure onsets. These differences were present throughout the recording, even before the first seizure was recorded. Conclusions: The results of this study suggest that it may be possible to efficiently and quantitatively determine whether a patient is likely to have unilateral temporal or independent bitemporal seizure onsets, based on analysis of the nonlinear characteristics of the EEG signal. In these patients, the findings were robust and persistent. Further studies in a large sample of patients will be required to determine whether or not this approach will have utility in selecting candidates for resective surgery. (Supported by NIH Grant RO1EB002089 and Department of Veterans Affairs.) 1 Steven Schachter, 2 Ali Shoeb, 3 Blaise Bourgeois, 4 S. Ted Treves, and 2 John Guttag ( 1 Departments of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA ; 2 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, MA ; 3 Departments of Neurology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA ; and 4 Nuclear Medicine, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA ) Rationale: The accurate detection of electrographic seizure onsets with an ambulatory system could potentially be used to trigger an acute intervention to limit seizure progression/duration, and could also serve to notify a caregiver or disable harmful elements in the patient's environment (eg, a gas stove that is lit). Methods: We implemented a patient-specific seizure detection algorithm (Shoeb A, et al. Epilepsy Behav 2004; 5:483?498) on a small digital signal processor (DSP; TM320C6711, Texas Instruments), and streamed previously recorded ambulatory EEGs from two patients to the DSP at a rate of 200 samples/sec per channel. For each EEG, we noted the sensitivity and specificity of seizure detections, and the latency with which the algorithm declared seizure onset following the initial electroencephalographic changes. Results: The algorithm trained on seizure-free EEG epochs and 7 electrographic seizures uniformly sampled over the duration of the two EEG studies. The figure shows the average latency for detection of seizure onsets once the electroencephalographic changes began. The algorithm detected 70/72 seizure onsets (30/31 for patient #1, and 41/42 for patient #2), and declared 2 false detections (0 for patient #1, and 2 for patient #2) in 5.5 hours (2 hours for patient #1, 3.5 hours for patient #2) of ambulatory EEG epochs uniformly sampled over a 36-hour period (20 hours for patient #1, and 16 hours for patient #2). The figure also compares how soon following electrographic seizure onset patient #1 became symptomatic (indicated by pressing the event button). Patient #2 was unaware of his seizures and therefore did not press the event button. Conclusions: These preliminary results demonstrate the high sensitivity and specificity of seizure onset detections using our algorithm and the feasibility of detecting seizures in the ambulatory setting within seconds of electrographic seizure onset and before symptoms occur. Further evaluation of our detection methodology on pre-recorded as well as on-line ambulatory EEG studies is underway. (Supported by Center for Integration of Medicine and Innovative Technology (CIMIT); MIT Project Oxygen Partnership.) 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Pierre LeVan, 1 François Dubeau, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute,McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: High frequency activity in the intracerebral EEG of epileptic patients has been described in recent studies using microelectrodes. We report changes in high frequency activity immediately following epileptic spikes in intracerebral recordings obtained from macroelectrodes. Methods: Eight patients with intractable epilepsy were evaluated; 4 had mesial temporal epilepsy (MT) and 4 neocortical epilepsy (N). EEGs from stereotaxically placed depth electrodes were filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz. Spikes were classified according to their localization and morphology, with 60 spikes in each type. Segments of 256ms were selected immediately following each spike (post-spike), and 2s before each spike (baseline). Log-spectral power was estimated in 4 frequency bands: slow (0?40Hz), gamma (40?100Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), and very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz). Changes between post-spike periods and baselines were assessed for each channel (Wilcoxon test, p < 0.01). Results: 25 types of spike were identified (16 MT, 9 N). Changes were seen in 14 types of spike in HF (10 MT, 4 N) and in 11 types in VHF (8 MT, 3 N). Changes in VHF were always associated with changes in HF. In 9 types of spike (7 MT, 2 N), there was an increase in slow activity corresponding to a visible slow wave, but also a decrease in fast activity. These changes occurred in the hippocampus and neocortex. In 6 types of spike (5 MT, 1 N), there was an increase in slow activity despite the absence of a visible slow wave and an increase in fast activity. These changes occurred mostly in the amygdala, even though the spike was minimal in that area. The same pattern was observed in the hippocampus in two types of spikes in one patient. Finally, there was one type of spike with a decrease in fast activity without changes in slow activity. Overall, changes in VHF activity were spatially more restricted than changes in HF and gamma bands. Conclusions: A significant proportion of spikes were followed by changes in high frequency activity, more often in mesial temporal than neocortical spikes. Slow waves following spikes were generally associated with a decrease in HF and VHF compared to baseline. Changes in high frequency were clearest in channels where the spikes were most prominent, while changes at lower frequencies were more widespread. In many instances, there was an increase in high frequencies in the amygdala, even though the spike was not prominent in this region. This study demonstrates that high frequency activity can be recorded with macroelectrodes and has significant changes in epileptic discharges. The reduction in HF and VHF following spikes may reflect a profound inhibition that is more marked in the region of spike generation. The amygdala behaves differently from the hippocampus and neocortex, not showing this reduction in fast activity. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research Department of Education of Basque Government.) 1 Anneleen Vergult, 1 Wim De Clercq, 1 Bart Vanrumste, 1 Sabine Van Huffel, 2 Johan Van Hees, 2 André Palmini, and 2 Wim Van Paesschen ( 1 Electrical Engineering, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ; and 2 Neurology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to develop and investigate the performance of automated muscle artifact removal from ictal electroencephalograms (EEG) based on canonical correlation analysis (CCA). Methods: CCA separated a 10s EEG epoch in a set of components (or sources) with a decreasing autocorrelation index (AI). It has been noticed that muscle artifact components have a lower AI than genuine EEG components. A neurologist removed muscle artifact from 317 epochs of ictal EEG of 40 patients by gradually removing the components starting from the one with the lowest AI. The neurologist determined subjectively the separation point where as much muscle activity was removed as possible, without affecting the brain activity significantly. This yielded a gold standard binary classification of the CCA components into muscle artifact components and EEG components. Next a fully automated classification of each CCA component was performed based on the ratio of spectral energy of the frequency band 25?50Hz to the band 10?15Hz. It is anticipated a large value of this feature will be observed when muscle activity is present in a component. The optimal feature threshold was selected by maximally remaining EEG components and maximally suppressing muscle artifact components. Results: The developed automated method was able to remain on average 99±0.3% of the EEG component energy, while removing on average 71±33% of the muscle artifact component energy. Conclusions: An automated muscle artifact removal technique was presented, that could be used as pre-processing step in the early detection of ictal activity or as a filter in the visual evaluation of ictal EEG.Currently the same EEG's are being processed by other neurologists, to investigate the user dependency of the optimal separation point to obtain a more generalized gold standard which can improve the robustness of the automated muscle artifact elimination. (Supported by European network of excellence BIOPATTERN (FP6-2002-IST-508803) and Fund for Scientific Research Flanders FWO research project nr G.0360.05. Bart Vanrumste is funded by the ?Programmatorische Federale Overheidsdienst Wetenschapsbeleid? of the Belgian Government.) 1 Cesar Viteri, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Jorge Iriarte, 1 Manuel Alegre, 1 Miguel Valencia, and 1 Julio Artieda ( 1 Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, CUN, CIMA, Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain ) Rationale: Independent component analysis (ICA) is a system that differentiates components of complex signals. One of its capabilities is to study the epileptiform discharges to demonstrate similar or different origin of its components. The goal of this study was to discover how ICA analyse the discharges in the benign centrospikes, to understand better this kind of idiopathic epilepsy. Methods: We analysed 15 discharges of 3 patients with benign centrotemporal epilepsy. Their morphology was sharp wave, spike or spike-and-wave. The samples were recorded digitally with a 32-channels Lamont amplifiers and Harmonie 5.2b program. ICA was applied using the JADE algorithm implemented in a Matlab platform. The components were identified visually. The suspected components were selected and the EEG of these components by itself and together were reconstructed. The topography in each component of the discharge was compared with the original using the BESA program in the same period. Results: The spikes and waves were located in different components. Spikes were separated in one (n = 10), two (n = 4) or three (n = 1) components, with delay between their maximums of 5?10 ms. The waves were isolated in other one or two components. Their topography was centrotemporal, very similar but not identical. The lateralization of each component was variable between components of the same spike, and it could be right, left or bilateral. Each component of the spike fit very well with the EEG in the correspondent time. The topography of the components from different spikes of the same patient varied slightly in the localisation. Conclusions: ICA differentiates several components with temporal evolution in the epileptiform discharges in centrotemporal epilepsy. In most of the discharges, the spike and the wave had different components suggesting different origin. Their topography was centrotemporal, similar but variable in the lateralization and localisation. In each patient the way of analysis of the discharge was very similar but not identical. 1 Chunmao Wang, 2 Istvan Ulbert, 1 Werner K. Doyle, 1 Orrin Devinsky, 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, and 3,4 Eric Halgren ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York, NY ; 2 Institute of Psychology, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary ; 3 Massachusetts General Hospital NMR Center, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA ; and 4 INSERM, Marseille, France ) Rationale: To study spatio-temporal stages in word processing, both current source density in cortex laminars and subdural potentials were recorded. Methods: Laminar multiple microelectrodes and clinical macroelectrodes were chronically implanted in epilepsy patients undergoing subdural grid and depth implantation for seizure localization. The patients participated in several cognitive tasks during their normal alert status. Three of them were visual word recognition tasks, in which the patients were requested to decide if a word: (1) presented an animal or object longer than one foot; (2) rhymed in ?AY; ? or 3) ended in ?ED? for its past tense. Another task was auditory version of the size judgment task, in which a computer speaker instead of a monitor presented the stimuli. In all four tasks, half of the words were presented during practice stages prior to test, so repetition effect was expected. Results: Extensive overlapping responses were recorded in frontal, temporal, and occipital cortices. In visual cortex, the earliest response was peaking at ?140 ms. For auditory stimuli, the earliest auditory response was in superior temporal cortex, peaking at ?100 ms, and the largest response was in adjacent area [still in superior temporal cortex], starting from ?120 ms and peaking at ?300 ms. These responses were equivalent to new and repeated words. However, there were significant differential responses from ?500?1000 ms to new versus repeated words, for both auditory and visual stimuli, mainly in medial and ventral temporal areas. Laminar electrodes in adjacent areas measured a sink and source complex, with a greater response to new words during the same time range. Conclusions: For both micro and macro recording, word repetition does not affect the initial processing stage but decreases later activity. These differential responses appeared to represent the N4-P3b. (Supported by NS18741 and NS44623.) 1,2 Matthias Winterhalder, 1,2 Bjoern Schelter, 2 Thomas Maiwald, 2 Ariane Schad, 3 Armin Brandt, 1,2 Jens Timmer, and 1,3 Andreas Schulze-Bonhage ( 1 Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ; 2 Center for Data Analysis and Modeling, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ; and 3 Epilepsy Center, University Hospital Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ) Rationale: Reliable and early prediction of epileptic seizures would open new routes for therapeutic interventions in patients with pharmacorefractory epilepsy. As seizures are characterized by an abnormal synchronization of neurons, multivariate time series analysis techniques detecting synchronized dynamics in invasive EEG recordings of epilepsy patients are a promising approach. Here, we have investigated two synchronization measures originating from the theory of Nonlinear Dynamics with respect to their potential role for epileptic seizure prediction. Methods: Two quantities measuring phase and lag synchronization have been applied to an invasive EEG data pool of 21 patients each with 24 hours of seizure-free recordings and 2?5 pre-seizure periods. Synchronization changes have been examined in different brain structures analyzing focal electrode contacts, i.e. early involved in ictal activity, as well as extra-focal electrode contacts, i.e. not involved in ictal activity or only involved lately during seizure spread. The seizure prediction performance has been assessed by the methodology of the seizure prediction characteristic. The seizure prediction characteristic evaluates sensitivity of a prediction method with respect to its specificity and temporal aspects of a prediction. Comparing with the probability to predict seizures by chance, a test is utilized to decide about the statistical significance. Results: Compared to a random prediction, a significantly better seizure prediction performance has been shown for half of the patients. Both decreasing and increasing synchronization in the EEG dynamics could precede seizures. Regarding the topography of brain structures investigated, a statistical significant superiority of combinations between one focal and one extra-focal electrode contact could be demonstrated for the lag synchronization measure (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Preictal changes in the synchronization of the EEG dynamics may offer a chance for epileptic seizure prediction. Our study shows that the seizure prediction performance differs between patients and strongly depends on the analysis technique applied and the brain structure investigated. (Supported by German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF grant 01GQ0420) and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Ti 315/2-1).) 1 John Zempel, 2 Justin L. Vincent, 2 Linda J. Larson-Prior, and 2 Abraham Z. Snyder ( 1 Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; and 2 Radiology and NeuroImaging Laboratory, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: The ballistocardiogram (BKG) is a significant source of artifact in scalp EEG recorded in the static magnetic field characteristic of human MRI scanners. Multiple methods (averaging, ICA, adaptive filtering) have been successfully employed by others to reduce the BKG. A new method of identifying BKG is used to biologically characterize the BKG across multiple electrodes and subjects. Methods: Simultaneous EEG and fMRI recordings were made from twelve subjects. Greater than than ten hours of EEG containing BKG. EEG-fMRI was recorded in a 3 Tesla Siemens Allegra MR scanner using a Neuroscan (El Paso, TX) Synamps/2 amplifier and Maglink cap and cabling system with Scan 4.5 software. Standard 10/20 electrode positions were collected at a 20 kHz sampling rate and the gradient artifact greatly reduced with Scan 4.5 with decimation of the EEG signal to 500 Hz. 10?20 electrodes were referenced to a common electrode halfway between CZ and CPZ). Two additional processing steps were developed to reduce the BKG (Vincent, et al, Soc Neuroscience Abstracts 2005). First, a custom template based beat detector program, which identifies EKG patterns that represent single heart beats, was used to provide accurate triggering. Second, a moving general linear model was used to generate models of the BKG. The extracted BKG signal was characterized by standard averaging and forward FFT techniques. Results: The BKG waveforms recovered by the GLM technique consistently included components outlasting the mean inter-beat interval in all (12/12) subjects and all 10?20 electrodes. Thus, as the waveforms due to successive beats inconsistently overlap, simple averaging cannot adequately characterize and reduce the BKG artifact. The BKG is large at 3 T. The positive to negative peak variation in the BKG is always more than 100 microvolts, and the largest components are most frequently several hundred microvolts in size in the O1-Ref electrode. The frequency content of the BKG is complicated. In addition to the frequency of the heart rate itself, bimodal peaks at 3?5 Hz and 8?10 Hz are present in the BKG, which contaminate frequency ranges needed to recover standard EEG. When the power spectral density of each electrode is averaged across subjects, the frequency bin with peak power varies over the scalp. Conclusions: BKG recorded at 3 Tesla represents a significant electrical signal that must be successfully removed to obtain EEG that represents brain activity. In addition to removing the BKG, biological characterization of the BKG across multiple subjects allows determination of the nature and variability of this signal. BKG itself is spatially variable in size and frequency content across the scalp. These observations constrain theoretical accounts of BKG origin, which presently remain incomplete. (Supported by K12NS01690 for John Zempel and NS06833 (laboratory of Marcus Raichle).)
ER  - 

AU  - O'Dwyer, Louise
C7  - pp. 199-211
TI  - Gas Monitoring
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119277187.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119277187.ch16
SP  - 199-211
KW  - capnogram
KW  - capnography
KW  - end-tidal carbon dioxide
KW  - expiration
KW  - infrared
KW  - mainstream
KW  - sampling
KW  - sidestream
KW  - ventilation
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary There are multiple aspects to the monitoring of respiratory gases. Gas monitoring provides useful information regarding inspired and expired patient levels, in order to prevent hypoxia and maintain a suitable plane of anesthesia, as well as information regarding the adequacy of ventilation via capnography, which also, indirectly, gives us some information about the patient's circulation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  -  Murison, PJ
AU  - Clutton, RE
AU  - Blissitt, KJ
AU  - Funnell, OD
TI  - Blood pressure and electrocardiographic effects of acepromazine in anaesthetized horses
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 30
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_11.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_11.x
SP  - 94
EP  - 95
PY  - 2003
AB  - Acepromazine, a phenothiazine tranquilizer, causes hypotension in standing horses (Parry et al. 1982). However, a retrospective study (Taylor & Young 1993) showed that acepromazine pre-anesthetic medication did not affect arterial blood pressure (MAP) in anaesthetized horses. This study examined the effects of acepromazine on MAP during romifidine?ketamine?halothane anaesthesia in horses anaesthetized for various surgical procedures. Forty-four horses were allocated by block randomization to groups A and B. Group A received acepromazine 0.05?mg?kg?1 IM 30?minutes before induction of anaesthesia, group B did not. All horses received romifidine 0.1?mg?kg?1 IV 5?minutes before anaesthesia was induced with diazepam 0.05?mg?kg?1 and 2.2?mg?kg?1 ketamine IV. The horses' trachea were intubated and horses breathed 50% oxygen and 50% nitrous oxide plus halothane (concentration adjusted as required clinically) from a circle breathing system. Nitrous oxide was discontinued after 10?minutes and analgesics, flunixin 1.1?mg?kg?1 and either morphine 0.1?mg?kg?1 or butorphanol 0.05?mg?kg?1 (matched for horses undergoing the same procedure) administered IV. The facial or dorsal metatarsal artery was catheterized for direct measurement of MAP (every 10?min) and withdrawal of blood for gas analysis (every 30?min). The electrocardiogram (ECG) was monitored continuously with a 10?seconds printout obtained every 10?minutes. Intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV) was instigated if PaCO2 exceeded 9.3?kPa (70?mm?Hg). Dobutamine was infused (1.0?5.0?kg?1minute?1) if MAP?<?58?mm?Hg and was continued until MAP?>?70?mm?Hg. Mean age, weight and duration of anaesthesia were compared between the groups using a t-test for independent samples. Gender distribution and numbers of horses requiring IPPV or dobutamine were compared between groups using a chi-squared test (with Yates correction). To compare MAP over time, the area under the curve (MAPAUC) was calculated and compared between groups using a t-test. Horses receiving dobutamine were excluded from MAPAUC and MAP comparisons. The ECG printouts were examined for arrhythmias. There were no significant differences between groups (p?>?0.05). Group A contained three stallions, 10 geldings and nine mares, aged 6.3?years (range 0.75?18). Group B comprised eight stallions, 11 geldings and three mares aged 7.3(1?16)?years. Duration of anaesthesia was group A 97 (50?140)?minutes, group B 99 (50?160)?minutes. Eight horses in group A and three in group B required IPPV. Nine horses in group A and four in group B received dobutamine. Mean arterial pressure ranged from 60 to 128?mm?Hg in group A and 58?96?mm?Hg in group B. Mean MAPAUC was 5941?mm?Hg?minute?1 in group A, in B 6000?mm?Hg?minute?1. Atrial pre-mature complexes were recorded from one horse in group B. No other arrhythmias were detected. Although MAP was lower in the acepromazine group, this appeared unlikely to cause a clinical problem. The incidence of arrhythmias was too low to determine the influence of acepromazine in this study.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Comparative study of the effects of acepromazine and structurally related compounds on the TNF-α release by monocytes stimulated by Chlamydia pneumoniae
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 30
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_12.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_12.x
SP  - 95
EP  - 95
PY  - 2003
AB  - Acepromazine (ACP), a member of the phenothiazine family, has antioxidant properties and interacts with reactive oxygen species produced by stimulated neutrophils (Serteyn et al. 1999). We found that ACP reduced the differentiation of monocytes induced by an overnight incubation with a crude Chlamydia pneumoniae extract (Serteyn et al. 2001). The same model was used to test the effects of phenothiazines on the TNF-α release by activated monocytes. A crude Chlamydia pneumoniae extract was obtained by mechanical disruption and centrifugation (1?minute, 1500?r.p.m.) of 78?hours infected McCoy cells. Monocytes (THP1 cell line; 2???106 cells by assay) were incubated overnight with 30?µL of Chlamydia pneumoniae crude extract (equivalent to an endotoxin charge of 3.5?pg) in the presence or absence of phenothiazines (from 10?6 to 10?4 M) (Mouithys-Mickalad et al. 2001). For estimation of TNF-α release, the supernatants were collected, centrifuged (to eliminate the undifferentiated monocytes) and used for TNF-α measurements (n?=?6) (Quantikine HS human TNF-α, R&D Systems, UK). Acepromazine was compared to other phenothiazines (chlorpromazine, trifluoperazine) or to structural analogues of phenothiazines (phenoxazine, thioxanthen-9-one and methylene blue). For each assay, cytotoxicity was evaluated by microscopic examination and blue trypan exclusion method. Mean values of TNF-α were compared by a Student t-test (p?<?0.05). TNF-α release by Chlamydia-treated THP1 was significantly decreased by ACP in a dose-dependent manner, 378?±?30, 209?±?38 and 189?±?35?ng?mL?1 for 10?6, 10?5 and 10?4 M compared to the control values 385?±?9?ng?mL?1. Similar inhibitions of TNF-α release were obtained with trifluoperazine (313?±?25 and 265?±?14?ng?mL?1 at 10?6 and 10?5 M) and chlorpromazine (323?±?29 and 227?±?13?ng?mL?1 at 10?6 and 10?5 M), but at 10?4 M, these two drugs were cytotoxic. The other structurally parent compounds increased significantly the TNF-α production: 630?±?46 and 468?±?60?ng?mL?1 for thioxanthen-9-one and 547?±?17 and 331?±?111?ng?mL?1 for methylene blue at 10?5 and 10?6 (M). At 10?4 M, the two compounds were cytotoxic. Phenoxazine increased the TNF-α production, slightly at 10?6 and 10?5 M (444?±?39 and 424?±?16?ng?mL?1, respectively) and significantly at 10?4 M (959?±?30?ng?mL?1). Further studies are needed to verify if the inhibition of TNF-α release by some phenothiazines could be linked to a reduction of the signal transduction, especially the NF-?B pathway. These results could be interesting for the anaesthesia or treatment of animals suffering from a systemic inflammatory reaction.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - McMurphy, RM
AU  - Egger, CM
AU  - Lillich, JD
TI  - The effects of pre-anesthetic administration of xylazine on the cardiovascular responses to dobutamine in halothane anaesthetized horses
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 30
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_13.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_13.x
SP  - 95
EP  - 96
PY  - 2003
AB  - Studies evaluating the effects of dobutamine in horses do not consistently report increases in cardiac output despite increases in arterial blood pressure. The concurrent administration of the α2 agonist clonidine, in people, inhibited the chronotropic effects of dobutamine and increased left ventricular stroke work (Zimpfer et al. 1982). Our study was performed to determine if pre-medication with an α2 agonist affects the response to dobutamine in anaesthetized horses. Eleven horses were anaesthetized on four separate occasions for one of four randomly assigned treatments; (I) no xylazine, no dobutamine (II) xylazine, no dobutamine (III) no xylazine, dobutamine, and (IV) xylazine, dobutamine. Horses received 0.02?mg?kg?1 of butorphanol IV 10?minutes prior to anesthetic induction. Two?minutes prior to induction, groups II and IV received 0.5?mg?kg?1 of IV xylazine. Anaesthesia was induced with 6?7?mg?kg?1 of thiopental and maintained with halothane. End-tidal halothane concentrations were maintained between 1.1 and 1.2% in groups I and III, and 0.9?1.0% for groups II and IV. Heart rate, cardiac output, right atrial pressure, and systolic (SAP), diastolic (DAP) and mean (MAP) arterial pressure were recorded 30?minutes after beginning halothane anaesthesia (T10). Cardiac output was estimated using Lithium dilution (Linton et al. 2000). Baseline measurements were repeated twice, at 5-minute intervals (T5 and T0). At time 0 (T0), an IV infusion of either saline (100?mL?hour?1) or dobutamine (0.001?mg?kg?1?minute?1) was started and data recorded at 5-minute intervals for 30?minutes (T5 ? T30). Stroke volume and systemic vascular resistance (SVR) were calculated. Data were analysed using repeated measures anova (p?<?0.01 significant) and Newman?Keuls for multiple comparisons. Cardiac output and stroke volume increased over time in groups III and IV. Cardiac index was higher in groups III and IV than in groups I and II from T10 until completion of the study. Estimates of cardiac index at T30 for groups I?IV were 45?±?9, 46?±?11, 71?±?11, and 78?±?19?mL?kg?1?minute?1, respectively (mean?±?SD). Stroke index was higher in groups III and IV than in groups I and II from T15 to T30. Values for stroke index at T30 for groups I?IV were 0.98?±?0.19, 1.11?±?0.18, 1.46?±?0.21, 1.74?±?0.33?mL?kg?1. Heart rate decreased from T10?T30 in groups I and II. Heart rate was greater in groups I and III than in groups II and IV at T5 and T0. Values for heart rate at T0 for groups I?IV were 48?±?5, 42?±?5, 50?±?4, 43?±?4 beats?minute?1. Systolic arterial pressure, DAP and MAP were higher in groups III and IV than in groups I and II from T5 to T30. There were no differences in SVR between groups. Dobutamine at 0.001?mg?kg?1?minute?1 increased cardiac output, blood pressure, and stroke volume. Premedication with xylazine at 0.5?mg?kg?1 did not appear to affect the response to dobutamine.
ER  - 

AU  - Cerveny, Shannon
AU  - Sleeman, Jonathan
C7  - pp. 573-584
TI  - Great Apes
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118792919.ch39
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118792919.ch39
SP  - 573-584
KW  - anesthesia
KW  - great apes
KW  - nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
KW  - opioids
PY  - 2003
AB  - Summary Anesthesia of great apes is often necessary to conduct diagnostic analysis, provide therapeutics, facilitate surgical procedures, and enable transport and translocation for conservation purposes. Due to the stress of remote delivery injection of anesthetic agents, recent studies have focused on oral delivery and/or transmucosal absorption of preanesthetic and anesthetic agents. Maintenance of the airway and provision of oxygen is an important aspect of anesthesia in great ape species. The provision of analgesia is an important aspect of the anesthesia protocol for any procedure involving painful stimuli. Opioids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are often administered alone, or in combination to provide multi-modal analgesia. There is increasing conservation management of in situ great ape populations, which has resulted in the development of field anesthesia techniques for free-living great apes for the purposes of translocation, reintroduction into the wild, and clinical interventions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kozarcanin, H.
AU  - Lood, C.
AU  - Munthe-Fog, L.
AU  - Sandholm, K.
AU  - Hamad, O. A.
AU  - Bengtsson, A. A.
AU  - Skjoedt, M.-O.
AU  - Huber-Lang, M.
AU  - Garred, P.
AU  - Ekdahl, K. N.
AU  - Nilsson, B.
TI  - The lectin complement pathway serine proteases (MASPs) represent a possible crossroad between the coagulation and complement systems in thromboinflammation
JO  - Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - J Thromb Haemost
VL  - 14
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jth.13208
DO  - doi:10.1111/jth.13208
SP  - 531
EP  - 545
KW  - blood coagulation
KW  - complement pathway
KW  - mannose-binding lectin
KW  - fibrin
KW  - mannose-binding protein-associated serine proteases
KW  - platelet activation
PY  - 2016
AB  - Essentials The lectin pathway's MASP-1/2 activates coagulation factors but the trigger of the activation is unknown. MASP-1/2 activation was assessed by quantifying complexes between MASPs and antithrombin/C1-inhibitor. Activated platelets and fibrin were demonstrated to activate MASP-1 and MASP-2 both in vitro and in vivo. These findings may represent a crossroad between the complement and the coagulation systems. Summary Background The activated forms of the complement lectin pathway (LP) proteases MASP-1 and MASP-2 are able to cleave the coagulation factors prothrombin, fibrinogen, factor XIII and thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor in vitro. In vivo studies also show that MASP-1 is involved in thrombogenesis. Objectives To clarify the not yet identified mechanisms involved in triggering activation of the LP during thrombotic reactions. Methods Novel sandwich-ELISAs for detection of complexes between MASP-1 or MASP-2 and the serpins C1 inhibitor (C1-INH) or antithrombin (AT), were used to specifically detect and quantify the activated forms of MASP-1 and MASP-2. Results Activated platelets were shown by flow cytometry to bind Ficolin-1, -2 and -3 but not MBL, which was associated with activation of MASP-1 and MASP-2. We also demonstrated that fibrin and the plasmin-generated fibrin fragment DD in plasma, bind and activate MASP-1 and MASP-2. As demonstrated by the ELISA and SDS-PAGE/Western blotting, the fibrin-associated activation was reflected in a specific inactivation by AT during clotting without the assistance of heparin. In all other cases the MASPs were, as previously reported, inactivated by C1-INH. In systemic lupus erythematosus patients with thrombotic disease and in polytrauma patients, the levels of activated MASP-1 and MASP-2 in complex with both AT and C1-INH were associated with markers of thrombotic disease and contact/coagulation system activation. Conclusions MASP-1 and MASP-2 are activated during blood clotting. This activation is triggered by activated platelets and by the generation of fibrin during thrombotic reactions in vitro and in vivo, and may represent a novel activation/amplification mechanism in thromboinflammation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Steiner, B
AU  - Kamm, A
AU  - Bettschart-Wolfensberger, R
TI  - Influences of carprofen and the experience of the surgeon on post-castration pain in lambs and young sheep
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 30
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_7.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1467-2995.2003.00132_7.x
SP  - 91
EP  - 92
PY  - 2003
AB  - This study evaluated the influences of carprofen and the experience of the surgeon on post-castration pain in lambs and young sheep castrated in the field. A total of 201, 1?6-week-old lambs with a mean body mass of 11.0?±?2.4?kg (mean?±?SD) were castrated after local application of 4?mL lidocaine (2%). Preoperatively lambs were given either 20?mg carprofen SC or an equal volume of saline in a randomized order. A further 34 sheep, aged 6?months, with a mean body mass of 36.0?±?4.5?kg were castrated after local application of 7?mL lidocaine (2%). Preoperatively sheep received 2?mg?kg?1 carprofen SC or an equal volume of saline in a randomized order. Lidocaine was injected SC in front of, behind and into each spermatic cord. All surgery was performed using the same Burdizzo clamp (jaw 45?mm wide, handles 225?mm) either by students or experienced veterinary surgeons. Pain was assessed preoperatively and at 24, 48 and 72?hours after castration by two independent observers unaware of the treatment group. Observers scored pain using a visual analog scale (100?mm) after applying gentle pressure onto the scrotal region (Thornton  20% versus 13%, p?=?0.0062 at 48?hours; 16% versus 10%, p?=?0.0088 at 72?hours) and significantly more swelling (18% versus 8%, p?=?0.0189) of the scrotal region than those castrated by veterinary surgeons. Young sheep receiving carprofen preoperatively had significantly lower pain scores (12?mm versus 25?mm, p?=?0.037) 24?hours after surgery compared to sheep receiving saline. No scrotal swelling was obvious in sheep. Juvenile sheep but not lambs, receiving carprofen preoperatively showed reduced pain scores up to 24?hours after surgery. Carprofen reduced swelling of the scrotum in lambs. Lambs castrated by experienced surgeons scored lower VAS scores at all times and showed less swelling of the scrotal region.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Braun, Christina
AU  - Trim, Cynthia M
AU  - Eggleston, Randy B
TI  - Effects of changing body position on oxygenation and arterial blood pressures in foals anesthetized with guaifenesin, ketamine, and xylazine
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 36
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2008.00423.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2008.00423.x
SP  - 18
EP  - 24
KW  - anesthesia
KW  - body position
KW  - horses
KW  - ketamine
KW  - oxygenation
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Objective? To investigate the impact of a change in body position on blood gases and arterial blood pressures in foals anesthetized with guaifenesin, ketamine, and xylazine. Study design? Prospective, randomized experimental study. Animals? Twelve Quarter Horse foals, age of 5.4?±0.9?months and weighing 222?±?48?kg. Methods? Foals were anesthetized with guaifenesin, ketamine, and xylazine for 40?minutes in lateral recumbency and then assigned to a change in lateral recumbency after hoisting (Group 1, n?=?6), or no change (Group 2, n?=?6). Oxygen 15?L?minute?1 was insufflated into the endotracheal tube throughout anesthesia. Arterial blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate (fR), inspired fraction of oxygen (FiO2), and end-tidal carbon dioxide (Pe?CO2) were measured every 5?minutes. Arterial pH and blood gases [arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2), arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2)] were measured at 10, 30, and 40?minutes after induction, and 5?minutes after hoisting. Alveolar dead space ventilation and PaO2/FiO2 were calculated. Two repeated measures models were used. All hypothesis tests were two-sided and significance level was α?=?0.05. All values are presented as least square means?±?SE. Results? Values at time-matched points from the two groups were not significantly different so they were combined. Arterial partial pressure of oxygen decreased significantly from 149?±?14.4?mmHg before hoisting to 92?±?11.6?mmHg after hoisting (p?=?0.0013). The PaO2/FiO2 ratio decreased from 275?±?30 to 175?±?24 (p?=?0.0055). End-tidal carbon dioxide decreased significantly from 48.7?±?1.6 to 44.5?±?1.2?mmHg (p?=?0.021). Arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide, blood pressures and heart rates measured 5?minutes after hoisting were not different from measurements obtained before hoisting. Conclusion and clinical relevance? Hoisting decreased PaO2 in anesthetized healthy foals. Administration of supplemental oxygen is recommended to counter the decrease in oxygenation and PaO2 measurement is necessary to detect early changes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ellison, Angela M.
AU  - Thurm, Cary
AU  - Alessandrini, Evaline
AU  - Jain, Shabnam
AU  - Cheng, John
AU  - Black, Kelly
AU  - Schroeder, Lisa
AU  - Stone, Kimberly
AU  - Alpern, Elizabeth R.
TI  - Variation in Pediatric Emergency Department Care of Sickle Cell Disease and Fever
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
JA  - Acad Emerg Med
VL  - 22
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/acem.12626
DO  - doi:10.1111/acem.12626
SP  - 423
EP  - 430
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Objectives The objective was to study the variation in pediatric emergency department (PED) practice patterns for evaluation and management of children with sickle cell disease (SCD) and fever in U.S. children's hospitals. Methods A cross-sectional study of visits by children 3 months to 18 years of age with SCD and fever evaluated in 36 U.S. children's hospital PEDs within the 2010 Pediatric Health Information System database. The main outcome measures were the proportions of SCD visits that received evaluation (laboratory testing and chest radiographs [CXRs]) and treatment (parenteral administration of antibiotics) and were admitted for fever. Results Of the 4,853 PED visits for SCD and fever, 91.7% had complete blood counts (CBCs), 93.8% had reticulocyte counts, 93% had blood cultures obtained, 68.5% had CXRs, and 91.7% received antibiotics. Most (81.4%) patients received the recommended National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute evaluation (CBC, reticulocyte count, and blood culture) and treatment (parenteral antibiotics). In multivariate regression modeling controlling for hospital- and patient-level effects, age groups ≥1 to <5 years (odds ratio [OR] = 0.32, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.25 to 0.40) and ≥5 to <13 years (OR = 0.40, 95% CI = 0.32 to 0.50), and those visits that did not have CXRs had lower odds of hospital admission. After adjusting for age, payor status, receipt of laboratory testing, antibiotics, and CXRs, admission rates varied by sevenfold across U.S. children's hospitals (p < 0.001). Conclusions Standardization of practice exists across children's hospitals regarding obtaining laboratory studies and administering antibiotics for patients with SCD and fever. However, admission rates vary significantly. Evaluating the causes and consequences of such significant variation needs further exploration to improve the quality of care for patients with SCD.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mascarenhas, John
AU  - Hoffman, Ronald
TI  - Myeloproliferative Neoplasms: New Translational Therapies
JO  - Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine: A Journal of Translational and Personalized Medicine
JA  - Mt Sinai J Med
VL  - 77
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/msj.20225
DO  - doi:10.1002/msj.20225
SP  - 667
EP  - 683
KW  - BCR-ABL
KW  - chronic myelogenous leukemia
KW  - clinical trials
KW  - essential thrombocythemia
KW  - JAK2 mutation
KW  - myeloproliferative neoplasms
KW  - polycythemia vera
KW  - primary myelofibrosis
KW  - stem cell transplantation
KW  - tyrosine kinase inhibitors
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract The myeloproliferative neoplasms represent a diverse group of hematologic malignancies that have been the subject of intense investigation over the last decade. Although clinical trials of the much anticipated small molecule inhibitors of Janus kinase 2 have shown that these experimental agents are successful in palliating many of the symptoms associated with the myeloproliferative neoplasms, they have not been reported to affect the disease initiating hematopoietic stem cell population or to alter the natural history of these disorders. Investigators remain optimistic that new information about the genetic and cellular origins gained from the efforts of numerous laboratories will ultimately translate in to the identification of new drug targets and more effective therapies. We hypothesize that ultimately, the use of combinations of drugs including chromatin modifying agents, immunomodulatory agents, anti-apoptotic agents, cellular therapies and monoclonal antibodies will be required to effectively treat patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms. Mt Sinai J Med 77:667?683, 2010. ? 2010 Mount Sinai School of Medicine
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Livingstone, Callum
TI  - Review of Copper Provision in the Parenteral Nutrition of Adults
JO  - Nutrition in Clinical Practice
JA  - Nutrition in Clinical Practice
VL  - 32
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1177/0884533616673190
DO  - doi:10.1177/0884533616673190
SP  - 153
EP  - 165
KW  - copper
KW  - copper deficiency
KW  - copper toxicity
KW  - parenteral nutrition
KW  - nutritional support
PY  - 2017
AB  - The essential trace element copper (Cu) is required for a range of physiologic processes, including wound healing and functioning of the immune system. The correct amount of Cu must be provided in parenteral nutrition (PN) if deficiency and toxicity are to be avoided. While provision in line with the standard recommendations should suffice for most patients, Cu requirements may be higher in patients with increased gastrointestinal losses and severe burns and lower in those with cholestasis. The tests of Cu status that are currently available for clinical use are unreliable. Serum Cu concentration is the most commonly ordered test but is insensitive to Cu deficiency and toxicity and is misleadingly increased during the acute phase response. These limitations make it difficult for prescribers to assess Cu status and to decide how much Cu to provide. There is a need for better tests of Cu status to be developed to decrease uncertainty and improve individualization of Cu dosing. More information is needed on Cu requirements in disease and Cu contamination of PN components and other intravenous fluids. New multi?trace element products should be developed that provide Cu doses in line with the 2012 American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition recommendations. This article discusses the evaluation and treatment of Cu deficiency and toxicity in patients treated with PN.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts presented at the American College of Veterinary Anesthesia and Analgesia Annual Meeting,19th September, 2015, Washington DC, USA
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 42
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12306
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12306
SP  - A52
EP  - A69
PY  - 2015
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts presented at the 10th World Congress of Veterinary Anaesthesia, 31st August–4th September 2009, Glasgow, UK
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 37
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2010.00535a.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2010.00535a.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 88
PY  - 2010
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Monday, December 4, 2006 Platform Highlights Session A 3:45 p.m.–5:45 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 47
IS  - s4
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_1.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_1.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 7
PY  - 2006
AB  - 1 Kristen M. Fowler, 2 Joseph M. Massaro, 3 Cynthia L. Harden, 4 Michael R. Sperling, 5 Page B. Pennell, 1 Donald L. Schomer, 4 Joyce D. Liporace, 3 Blagovast Nikolov, 4 Gwendolyn Taylor, 5 Melanee Newman, and 1 Andrew G. Herzog ( 1 Harvard Neuroendocrine Unit, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ; 2 Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, MA ; 3 Neurology, Weill Cornell Medical School, New York, NY ; 4 Neurology, Thomas Jefferson University Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA ; and 5 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Past observations in small studies have suggested that seizures may not occur randomly in the majority of women with epilepsy. They often tend to cluster (Tauboll et al. 1991; Bauer et al. 2001; Haut S et al. 2006). Systematic investigations in large prospective investigations, however, are lacking. The purpose of this investigation was to determine the distribution of seizure occurrence in women with localization related epilepsy. Methods: The present data come from the first 100 women, aged 13?45, who were participating in the baseline phase of a multicenter investigation of supplemental progesterone therapy for the treatment of intractable seizures in women with localization related epilepsy. The women recorded seizures and menses during 3 baseline menstrual cycles. A midluteal progesterone level ≥ 5 ng/ml was used to identify ovulatory cycles. The goodness of fit of the Poisson distribution to the distribution of seizures during the combined three-cycle observation period in each woman with ≥10 seizures was tested by chi square analysis. ?2 values >5.99 identified women with nonrandom seizure distributions. Nonrandom distributions were further categorized as uniform (variance/mean < 1) or clustered (variance/mean >1). Results were similar to an alternative method of testing nonrandom distributions against a uniform distribution for each subject using the Pearson chi square statistic with categorization as clustered if p value was ≤ .05. Results: 75 women had ≥10 seizures over the 3 month observation period. Seizure distributions in these 75 women were random in 29 (38.7%). Among the remaining 46 (61.3%) who had non-random distributions, 6 (8.0%) had uniform distributions and 40 (53.3%) had clustered distributions. Clustering was significantly more pronounced among women with anovulatory cycles than among women with ovulatory cycles (variance/mean ± 2 SD = 6.1 ± 5.3 vs 2.2 ± 1.7; t-test for independent samples: p = .006). No correlation was demonstrated between clustering and age of subjects, age of epilepsy onset, duration of epilepsy, EEG laterality and individual AEDs. Conclusions: The preliminary findings of this prospective study suggest that the majority (53.3%) of women with localization related epilepsy have clustered seizure distributions and that clustering may be significantly more common with anovulatory than ovulatory cycles. (Supported by NIH RO1 NS39466.) 1 Mark Quigg, 2 Nicholas M. Barbaro, 3 Kenneth D. Laxer, 2 Marianne L. Ward, and Epilepsy Radiosurgery Study Group ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; 2 Neurological Surgery, University of California San Francisco, Charlottesville, VA ; and 3 Neurology, University California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKS) offers an alternative to open surgery for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), but its safety and efficacy are not well-established. We report the two year outcome on seizure remission and morbidities of a multicenter, prospective pilot study of GKS. Methods: Patients had unilateral MTLE as determined by standard presurgical evaluation. GKS, randomized to 20 Gy or 24 Gy comprising 5.0?7.5mL at the 50% isodose volume, was performed on mesial structures including the amygdala, hippocampus, and parahippocampal gyrus. Treatment plans were approved at a central site to insure uniformity of lesions. Patients and primary treating physicians were blinded to dose. Regular visits with seizure diaries were obtained for 3 months at presurgical baseline and postoperatively for every three months until 18m, then at 24m. Patients were counted as ?seizure-free? if no seizures (excluding auras) occurred between visits 18m-24m. Any subject that was not available for analysis was considered not seizure-free. Results: Of 40 planned enrollments, 30 qualified resulting in 13 subjects in the high dose and 17 in the low dose group. 1 patient was lost to follow-up soon after treatment. 1 subject in the low-dose group underwent standard lobectomy after not being seizure-free 24 months following treatment. 1 subject experienced papilledema that responded partially to dexamethasone and underwent temporal lobectomy. Reductions in seizure frequency were seen in the high-dose group at 3, 6, 15, 18, and 24 months and for the low-dose group at 12, 15, 18, and 24 months (Wilcoxon signed rank test). Thus, both groups showed significant reductions in seizures at approximately one year following treatment. The low-dose group showed a seizure-free response at 24 months of ? 60% and the high-dose group response was ? 80% at 24 months. Although there is a difference in the seizure-free rates for the two treatment groups, the Fisher's Exact Test using a 2-sided p value indicates that the difference in percentage seizure-free for the two groups is not statistically significant (p = 0.1194), a conclusion limited by the low power to resolve differences between treatment groups. Rates of steroid treatment, new headaches, and visual field defects did not differ between dose or seizure-outcome groups. Conclusions: GKS may offer a safe and effective alternative to standard open surgery for unilateral MTLE. High-dose GKS may be more effective than low-dose without additional morbidity. Disadvantages of GKS include latency to seizure-freedom. Further work is required to determine which patients may benefit from GKS. (Supported by NIH R01 NS039280; Elekta AB (Stockholm, Sweden).) 1 Miao Liu, and 1 Nathan B. Fountain ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: The natural history of epilepsy, and particularly the rate of seizure freedom (SF), is generally unknown except in a few specific epilepsy syndromes. The rate of SF is generally regarded to be low if patients do not respond to the first two medications. However, our experience suggests that some patients with refractory epilepsy become SF. We hypothesized that the rate of SF is higher than expected and correlated with the seizure class and epilepsy syndrome. Methods: Standardized data were prospectively collected by epileptologists from established and new patients seen in the UVA Epilepsy Clinic from April 1998 to November 2004. Data were acquired directly from patients and medical records, refined and cleaned by standardized methods and updated at each clinic visit. Analysis was limited to patients with definite epilepsy > 5 years old. Frequency of each seizure (SZ) type was collected at each visit. Patients were categorized into 14 classes by the combination of SZ types they possessed and classified by ILAE syndromes. For each subject, monthly SZ frequency of each SZ type was plotted over time for the study duration. SF was defined as a total frequency of 0 for at least 6 mo. in patients who had at least 3 SZ frequency entries. Results: From 1638 subjects, 988 had 3 or more SZ frequency entries and were followed for a mean of 37 mo. SF developed in 25% (243), established SF was present throughout the time period in 23% (231), and 52% (514) continued to have seizures. Among those SF, mean duration of follow-up was 24.5 mo. and mean duration of SF was 20.9 mo. The majority (56%) of those SF had a moderately high baseline SZ frequency of 1?15/mo, while 21% had < 1/mo and 15% had a very high SZ frequency of >15/mo. Subjects with GTCs only were most likely to have a low SZ frequency (60%) and mixed types to have a very high frequency (67%). SF rate was highest for subjects with generalized SZs (113 of 355 subjects or 31%) and lowest for mixed SZs (6 of 28 subjects or 21%). SF rate was highest for idiopathic localization-related (53%) and idiopathic generalized (38%) and lowest for other generalized epilepsies (25%). Conclusions: An overall rate of seizure freedom of 48% with 25% becoming SF during the study period is higher than generally expected for established epilepsy. Patients with only generalized SZs, or idiopathic generalized and idiopathic localization-related epilepsies are more likely to become SF but some rate of SF develops in all SZ types and syndromes. It is likely that recall bias and other factors give clinicians the impression that only few patients with epilepsy are seizure free. This demonstrates that SF is a reasonable goal in the treatment of established epilepsy, depending on the SZ type and epilepsy syndrome. (Supported by University of Virginia.) 1 Susana E. Camposano, 1 David A. Lyczkowski, 1 Sonja K. Rakowski, and 1 Elizabeth A. Thiele ( 1 Herscot Center for TSC, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Epilepsy is the most common medical manifestation of TSC, with a high incidence of infantile spasms and partial epilepsy that often is refractory to medical treatment. We describe the incidence, prevalence, management, and control of seizures in a large population of patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex. Methods: We conducted a retrospective chart review of patients meeting clinical criteria for TSC who were seen through our TSC clinical program between January 1999 and November 2005. Results: 194 patients met criteria for TSC (mean age 16 years, range 7 months to 60 years), including 91 females. 172 (88.7%) had a history of seizures (mean age 14.8 years, SD 14.8). Twenty-two (11%) patients did not have a history of seizures (mean 24.1years, SD 13.7). The latter group was significantly older (Student's t test, p < 0.005). TSC diagnosis in patients with no seizure history diagnosis may be established later in life, and they might be underrepresented in our sample. Median age at seizure onset was 6 months (range, newborn to13 years average, mean 1.8 years). Sixty-nine patients (43% of those with seizures) had a history of infantile spasms. Of those who had DNA mutational analysis and seizures (n = 122), patients with IS had a higher proportion of TSC2 mutations compared to those without IS (41/56 with IS versus 28/66 without IS, ?2 p < 0.001) Seizure control Detailed information on 158 patients was available for seizure control analysis. At the time of the last visit, 55 (35%) had been seizure free for one year or longer. 33 (21%) of them, including 4 that underwent epilepsy surgery, were on medications, with an average of 3.28 (total, current and past, range 1to 11) antiepileptic drugs (AED). They had been seizure free for an average of 6.65 years, maximum 28 years. Twenty-three were on current mono-therapy. Twenty-two patients (14%), including 4 that had seizure surgery, were off medications and had been on an average number of 2.81 AEDs (range 1 to 6). Refractory epilepsy Seventy-three patients who had been treated with 3 or more treatments, including AEDs, vagal nerve stimulator (12), ketogenic diet (10), or low glycemic index treatment (2) without reaching seizure control for one year were classified as refractory. They did not differ in mutational frequencies from 26 non-refractory patients (?2= NS), who did achieve seizure control with one or two AEDs. Fifty-nine patients were excluded from this analysis, since they had not been treated with more than 2 AEDs or other treatments and had not achieved seizure control for one year. Epilepsy surgery was performed in 27 refractory patients; 10 of them eventually became seizure free. Nineteen refractory patients became seizure free after being treated with 3 or more AEDs. Conclusions: TSC comprises a wide epilepsy spectrum, with early onset of seizures, high IS incidence and high intractabilitity rates. Nonetheless 35% achieve complete seizure control. 1 Kimford J. Meador, 2 Nancy Browning, 3 Morris J. Cohen, 4 Laura Kalayjian, 5 Joyce Liporace, 6 Page B. Pennell, 7 Michael D. Privitera, 8 Andres Kanner, and 9 Debra T. Cantrell ( 1 Neurology, University of Florida, Gaineville, FL ; 2 EMMES Corporation, Rockville, MD ; 3 Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 4 Neurology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA ; 5 Neuroscience, Riddle Health Care, Media, PA ; 6 Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ; 7 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; 8 Neurology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL ; and 9 North Texas Epilepsy Center, Irving, TX ) Rationale: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can produce behavioral teratogenesis in animals at dosages less than required to produce anatomical teratogenesis. We sought to evaluate the cognitive effects of in utero AED exposure in humans in order to determine if differences exist across commonly prescribed AEDs. Methods: The NEAD Study is an ongoing prospective multicenter observational investigation, which enrolled pregnant women with epilepsy taking monotherapy carbamazepine (CBZ), lamotrigine(LTG), phenytoin (PHT), or valproate (VPA). The long-term goal of the study is to examine children from these pregnancies at 6 years old to determine if differential neuropsychological effects exist from in utero exposure across the four most commonly employed AEDs in pregnant women. This analysis is based on currently available results at 2 years old from the Mental Scale of the Bayley Scales of Infant Development for 166 children (CBZ = 43, LTG = 57, PHT = 38, VPA = 28). The childrens' Mental Developmental Index (MDI) scores were analyzed by Analysis of Covariance controlling for maternal IQs. Results: Children exposed in utero to valproate had lower MDI scores at 2 years of age compared to the other 3 AEDs (p = .028). Follow-up pairwise comparisons revealed a significant difference for VPA-LTG (p = .018) and a trend for VPA-CBZ (p = .056). Mean (SD) MDIs were: CBZ = 94 (15), LTG = 97 (17), PHT = 90 (19), VPA = 85 (19). The percentages of children with MDI < 70 for each AED were: CBZ = 12%, LTG = 11%, PHT = 13%, VPA = 25%. The adverse effect of VPA was related to anticonvulsant blood level (p = .0001). Conclusions: These findings in conjunction with prior studies imply that in utero valproate exposure is more likely than other commonly used AEDs to impair cognitive development. Thus, valproate poses a greater risk for the unborn child for behavioral as well as anatomical teratogenesis. Additional studies are needed to confirm the present findings and to delineate the risks for other AEDs. (Supported by NIH/NINDS #2RO1 NS38455.) 1 Wayne M. Alves, 1 Yuhua Li, 2 Virinder Nohria, on behalf of the 205 Study Investigators ( 1 Research  and 2 Clinical Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Retigabine is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) that enhances the potassium currents mediated by human KCNQ2/3 and KCNQ3/5 potassium channels and exhibits potent anticonvulsant activity in a broad spectrum of epilepsy animal models. The safety and efficacy of retigabine in refractory partial-onset seizures has been previously reported [1]. This report provides a descriptive analysis evaluating the efficacy of retigabine on complex partial seizures (CPS) in patients with refractory partial-onset epilepsy. Methods: 399 patients with partial-onset seizures (age range: 16?70 years, baseline seizure frequency: ≥4 seizures/month) participated in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial. Study design included an 8-week baseline phase and 16-week double-blind treatment period (8-week forced titration and 8-week maintenance). Patients received either placebo or retigabine 600, 900, or 1200 mg/day and up to 2 approved AEDs. The primary efficacy variable was percent change from baseline in monthly total partial-seizure frequency. The percent change in monthly seizure rate for seizure types was considered as a secondary endpoint. Of 396 patients included in the efficacy analysis, 344 (86.9%) had CPS. 103 (26%) patients had simple partial seizures without secondary generalization (SPS). Results: Retigabine produced a linear dose-dependent reduction in monthly total partial-seizure frequency of 23%, 29% (p = 0.043), and 35% (p 0.001) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 13% for placebo. Looking at the most common seizure subtype, monthly CPS frequency was also significantly reduced. Median monthly CPS rate was reduced by 29.8% (p = 0.062), 26.5% (p = 0.064), and 40.0% (p = 0.002) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 14.8% for placebo. Monthly median SPS rate was reduced by 23.2% (p = 0.66), 34% (p = 0.77), and 37.6% (p = 0.15) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 15.2% for placebo. Conclusions: While retigabine is effective in reducing monthly total partial-onset seizures at 900 and 1200 mg/day, it appears to be effective in reducing the rate of complex partial seizures in all doses tested. Similar numerical trends for SPS frequency were observed but sample sizes are too small to draw a conclusion. Retigabine is currently undergoing global phase 3 studies as adjunctive treatment for partial-onset seizures in adults with refractory epilepsy. Reference 1 Porter P, Alves W, Nohria V, et al. World Congress of Neurology, 2005 (Sydney, Australia). (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International.) 1 Peter Halasz, 2 Reeta Kalviainen, 3 Maria Mazurkiewicz-Beldzinska, 4 Felix Rosenow, 5 Pamela Doty, and 5 Timothy Sullivan ( 1 Neurology, National Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology, Budapest, Hungary ; 2 Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland ; 3 Neurology, Medical University of Gdansk, Gdansk, Poland ; 4 Neurology, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany ; and 5 Clinical Development, Schwarz Biosciences, Inc., Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Lacosamide (LCM, SPM 927; formerly harkoseride) is a new chemical entity being developed as an oral and intravenous formulation for the treatment of partial-onset epilepsy. In a completed randomized, controlled trial (SP667), lacosamide (400 and 600 mg/day) reduced seizure frequency in subjects with uncontrolled partial seizures. Lacosamide has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile with low potential for pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions. Methods: SP755 was an international, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that investigated the efficacy and safety of lacosamide in subjects with uncontrolled partial seizures taking 1 to 3 concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) with or without vagus nerve stimulation. Concomitant AEDs were held stable during an 8-week baseline. Subjects (n = 485) who reported at least 8 seizures with no more than a 21-day seizure-free period were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to placebo, lacosamide 200 or 400 mg/day (given bid), respectively. Subjects were titrated over 4 weeks to the randomized dose in 100 mg/week increments. Treatment was maintained for 12 weeks, followed by blinded transition to an open-label extension trial or discontinuation. Efficacy was evaluated with continuous and categorical intent-to-treat analyses of seizure frequency (maintenance vs baseline). Safety was evaluated with adverse event (AE), ECG, vital sign, and clinical laboratory data. Results: The median percent reduction in seizure frequency was 21%, 35%, and 36% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. The lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day treatment groups were statistically significant over placebo in reducing seizure frequency from Baseline to the Maintenance Phase (p = 0.0223 and 0.0325, respectively). The 50% responder rates were 26%, 35%, and 41% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. Statistical analysis for responder rate over placebo was significant for lacosamide 400 mg/day (p = 0.0063) and approached significance for the 200 mg/day group (p = 0.0735). Rates for patient discontinuations from the trial for AEs were 6%, 6%, and 16% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. The most common (≥10% in any lacosamide group) AEs were dizziness, headache and diplopia. Conclusions: Data from this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial showed that adjunctive lacosamide (200 and 400 mg/day) produced a statistically significant reduction in partial seizures in patients with uncontrolled partial seizures and support further development of lacosamide as an antiepileptic drug. (Supported by Schwarz Biosciences, Inc.) 1 Luiz Eduardo Betting, 1 Susana Barreto Mory, 2 ?scia Lopes-Cendes, 1 Li M. Li, and 1 Fernando Cendes ( 1 Department of Neurology, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Medical Genetics, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Idiopathic generalized epilepsies (IGE) are a group of epilepsies with generalized onset of the seizures. According to the main seizure type IGE are divided in subsyndromes. Routine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is normal. The EEG supports the diagnosis when it shows the typical generalized spike and wave (GSW) discharges with normal background. Despite of these features, sometimes focal epileptiform discharges may be registered in the EEG. Some authors believe that these focalities represent fragmented GSW discharges but the pathophysiology of the focalities is still under investigation. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) is a quantitative technique of MRI analysis that allows automatic comparison between images. This method also increases the sensibility to detect small areas of structural abnormalities. The objective of this study was to investigate the focalities present on the EEG records of patients with IGE using VBM. Methods: Patients were classified according to clinical and EEG features following previous recommendations. All patients had at least one EEG with typical GSW discharges and one with clear focal epileptiform discharges. All patients were submitted to MRI evaluation in a 2T MRI scanner (Elscint, Haifa, Israel). A 3D T1 gradient echo sequence with 1 mm isotropic voxels was used for VBM analysis. Images were previously processed using the software SPM2 (http://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk). All images were submitted to spatial normalization, automatic segmentation, modulation and smoothing. The images of each patient were individually compared with a group of 47 controls (23 women, mean age 32 ± 14, range 19?67). Statistical analysis was performed searching for areas of gray matter concentration (GMC) abnormalities. The statistical level selected was a corrected p < 0.05 (false discovery rate). The localization of the focal discharges on the EEG was compared to the VBM results. Results: Twenty-two patients with IGE diagnosis were evaluated. Nine had juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), 6 patients had absence epilepsy (AE) and 7 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures on awakening (GTCS). Eight of the 9 (89%) patients with JME presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 6 of 8 patients (75%). Five of 6 (83%) patients with AE presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 3 of 5 patients (60%). Five of 7 (71%) patients with GTCS presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 2 of 5 patients (40%). Conclusions: This study supports that subtle structural abnormalities characterized mainly by increased GMC may be responsible for the focal epileptiform discharges observed in the EEG of IGE. These focalities are also probably involved in the pathophysiology of the IGE. (Supported by Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo (FAPESP) and Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES).) 1 Greg A. Worrell, 1 Matt Stead, 2 Rick Marsh, 2 Fred Meyer, 1 Greg Cascino, 1 Elson So, and 3 Brian Litt ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; 2 Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 3 Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: The range of physiologic and pathologic oscillations recorded from human brain extend well beyond what is commonly recorded with clinical acquisition systems. The range of local field activity in human epileptogenic brain extends from DC to ?700 Hz. The clinical relevance of DC fluctuations, infraslow oscillations (0.01?0.1 Hz) and ultrafast oscillations (100?700 Hz) is unclear, but recent research supports the possible role of pathological high-frequency oscillations in the genesis of focal onset seizures. Methods: We studied 10 consecutive patients undergoing presurgical evaluation with hybrid subdural and depth electrodes. The custom hybrid depth and subdural electrodes (Adtech) used for intracranial EEG recordings contain an array of microwire electrodes (40 um?60 um) and clinical macroelectrodes (1?4 mm). The EEG was acquired using a DC coupled broadband amplifier operating in parallel with the clinical EEG acquisition system. Results: The broadband recordings from all 10 patients (5 neocortical grids and 5 temporal depth electrodes) showed oscillations extending from DC to ?700Hz. Infraslow oscillations and DC fluctuations tended to be more spatially distributed, but were most prominent in the region of seizure onset. Ultrafast oscillations (>100 Hz) were most often localized, and were most prominent within the seizure onset zone. The ultrafast oscillations were most evident on the microwire electrodes, and were modulated by slow frequency oscillations. Conclusions: Human epileptogenic brain generates local field oscillations that extend over a wide dynamic range (DC-700 Hz). In addition to activity in the usual clinical bands (?0.5?100 Hz) there are DC fluctuations and shifts, infraslow frequency oscillations (?0.01?0.1 Hz), and ultrafast oscillations (>100?700 Hz) present. The presence of ultrafast oscillations are often highly localized and most evident on microwire recordings, but can be absent from large clinical macroelectrodes. This suggests that clinical macroelectrodes (2 mm) may partially average out ultrafast local field potentials. (Supported by NIH/NINDS K23NS47495?03.) 1 Wenbo Zhang, 2,5 Deanna L. Dickens, 2 Gail Risse, 1 Joel Landsteiner, 3 Mary Beth Dunn, 4 Mark V. Larkins, 3 Richard Gregory, 3 Keith Davies, 2,5 Michael D. Frost, 2,5 Patricia E. Penovich, 2 Robb Doss, 2 El-Hadi Mouderres, and 2,5 Frank J. Ritter ( 1 Magnetic Source Imaging, John Nasseff Neuroscience Institute, Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA and United Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; 2 Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA, St. Paul, MN ; 3 United Neurosurgery Associates, St. Paul, MN ; 4 Department of Neurosurgery, Regions Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; and 5 Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Magnetoencephalography (MEG)/magnetic source imaging (MSI) is the only neuroimaging method to real-time measure neuronal activity non-invasively. MSI clinical application is receiving more attention. Presurgical functional brain mapping with MSI allows guidance during surgical decision-making and decreases the invasiveness of presurgical evaluation in epilepsy, brain tumor or cerebral vascular diseases. This report describes the patients tested and confirmed by invasive brain monitoring intraoperatively or with subdural grid placement, in the MSI Lab of Minnesota Epilepsy Group, PA and United Hospital at Saint Paul, Minnesota. Methods: Twenty-nine patients experienced both functional brain mapping with MSI (148-channel Magnes 2500 WH System, 4-D Neuroimaging, San Diego, CA) and invasive brain mapping (11 patients with intra-operative mapping, 18 with subdural electrode placement) in Minnesota Epilepsy Group between Dec 2004 and June 2006. Standard MSI protocols were applied for localization of language (word recognition task for receptive language mapping), somatosensory (pneumatic piston as stimuli), and primary motor cortex (voluntary finger tapping). The magnetic sources are modeled as a single equivalent dipole. The dipoles were superimposed onto the 3-dimensional SPGR MR images (1.4 mm slice thickness, no gap). Results: In the 29 patients, there were 8 patients with language mapping, 26 with motor mapping and 16 with somatosensory mapping. In the 51 brain function components, somtosensory and motor MSI dipoles were overlapped with the locations of invasive cortical mapping or located within 1 cm range from the sites of invasive cortical mapping; language MSI dipoles were located in the sulcus overlapped by cortical mapping on surface. There were no non-predicted neurological deficits after resective surgery in 28 patients. One patient did not experience resection due to the overlapping of motor cortex and epileptogenic focus. Conclusions: Functional brain mapping with MSI is an accurate tool to localize brain function for surgical planning. Using MSI information properly may reduce the number of invasive brain mapping procedures. 1 Chad Carlson, 3 Catherine Schevon, 4 Jeff Stout, 1 Siddhartha Nadkarni, 2 Werner Doyle, 2 Howard Weiner, 1 Steven Pacia, 1,2 Orrin Devinsky, and 1 Ruben Kuzniecky ( 1 Neurology, New York University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurosurgery, New York University, New York, NY ; 3 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 4 New York MEG, New York, NY ) Rationale: The lateralization and localization of partial seizures, particularly in extratemporal epilepsy syndromes, remains difficult despite improved diagnostic imaging and electroencephalographic techniques. Magnetic source imaging (MSI) is increasingly employed in the presurgical evaluation. This study retrospectively examines the positive predictive value (PPV) of MSI for lateralizing the epileptogenic zone. Methods: All epilepsy surgical cases performed after the availability of MSI (4-D Neuroimaging, equivalent current source dipole localization) at our center were identified. 163 surgeries in 152 patients were performed. 73 patients had a diagnostic pre-operative MSI. Results were available to the epilepsy team prior to surgery; however the MSI results did not directly affect the resection. We compared MSI lateralization to the ICEEG lateralization and resection. These results were reviewed in the context of the surgical outcome for patients with more than six months of post-surgical follow-up. Results: 12 of the 73 patients did not have resections due to non-lateralizable or non-localizable seizures or because their implants were diagnostic bilateral strip surveys. 30 patients had resections limited to the temporal lobe (4 with focal tumors). 3 patients had frontal tumors. 10 patients had multi-focal lesions secondary to tuberous sclerosis complex. The MSI was normal in 9 patients. Of those with an abnormal MSI, 39 had unilateral abnormalities ipsilateral to the resection and 6 had abnormalities limited to the contralateral hemisphere. 19 patients had bilateral findings, with 10 demonstrating a clear predominance ipsilateral to the resection. 40/61 patients undergoing resections had six or more months of follow-up. The PPV for MSI lateralization is shown in the table below. Positive Predictive Value of MSI for Lateralization of Epileptic Foci Number of Patients PPV PPV + Bilateral All Patients 73 61% ?77% Engel I Outcome 25/40 77% ?91% Engel II Outcome ?5/40 75% 100% Engel III Outcome ?6/40 67% ?67% Engel IV Outcome ?4/40 75% ?75% Engel II-I VOutcomes 15/40 71% ?78% PPV = Positive Predictive Value. PPV + Bilateral = Positive Predictive Value including patients with bilateral localizations with a predominance to the side of resection. Conclusions: This retrospective analysis demonstrates both the validity of MSI for lateralizing the epileptogenic zone as well as the method's limitations; the specificity of the MSI technique for predicting the epileptogenic zone cannot exceed its ability to lateralize correctly. Thus, clinicians should interpret the MSI in the context of other presurgical studies, rather than rely on it as an independent predictor of the epileptogenic zone. (Supported by FACES.) 1 Gregory L. Barkley, 1 Brien Smith, 2 Gregory Bergey, 3 Gregory Worrell, 4 David Chabolla, 5 Joeseph Drazkowski, 6 Douglas Labar, 7 Robert Duckrow, 8 Anthony Murro, 9 Michael Smith, 10 Ryder Gwinn, 11 Bruce Fisch, 12 Lawrence Hirsch, and 13 Martha Morrell ( 1 Department of Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI ; 2 Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD ; 3 Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; 4 Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL ; 5 Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, AZ ; 6 Weill Medical College of Cornell University, NYC, NY ; 7 Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 8 Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 9 Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL ; 10 Swedish Neuroscience Inst., Seattle, WA ; 11 Lousiana State University, New Orleans, LA ; 12 Columbia University, NYC, NY ; and 13 NeuroPace, Inc., Mountain View, CA ,) Rationale: A multi-center feasibility investigation assessed safety and possible efficacy of the cranially based implantable, programmable Responsive Neurostimulator (RNS?) system. Methods: Subjects were 18?65 years with intractable partial-onset seizures and localized epileptogenic onset region(s). Subjects with ≥12 simple partial (SP) sensory or motor seizures, complex partial seizures (CPS) or generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures over an 84-day baseline period qualified for implant. The RNS was connected to up to 2 leads (subdural and/or depth), which were targeted to the seizure focus. Adverse events (AEs) were monitored throughout the trial. Efficacy was assessed during two time periods, the 84-day period beginning 28 days post-implant (primary) and the most recent 84 days for which a subject could have received therapy (secondary). Results: During the primary evaluation period, the responder rate (≥50% reduction in seizures) in 50 subjects (excluding 1 subject with no disabling seizures at baseline and 14 subjects blinded off) was 32% for CPS (n = 44), 63% for GTC (n = 16), and 26% (n = 50) for total disabling seizures (TDS) (SP motor, CPS and GTC). The median percentage reduction in seizure frequency was: CPS 27%, GTC 59% and TDS 29%; seizure reduction was significant for CPS (p < 0.05) and TDS (p < 0.001) (Wilcoxon signed-rank test). For the secondary evaluation period, as of 4/28/06, the responder rate for 62 subjects (excluding 1 subject with no disabling seizures at baseline and 2 subjects previously blinded off with fewer than 84-days of therapy on) was 40% for CPS (n = 52), 55% for GTC (n = 22), and 41% for TDS (n = 61). The median percentage reduction was: CPS 34%, GTC 66% and TDS 35%, and seizure reduction was significant for CPS (p < 0.05), GTC (p < 0.005), and TDS (p < 0.001). In 65 implanted subjects (including 17 device replacements) representing 65 patient years, there were no serious unanticipated device-related AEs, and responsive neurostimulation was well tolerated. Conclusions: An investigation of the RNS? system demonstrated safety and a sustained reduction in CPS, GTC and TDS events. Preliminary results indicated that the RNS? system may provide a safe and effective treatment for adults with intractable partial-onset epilepsy. (Supported by NeuroPace, Inc.) 1 Angela Y. Rackley, 1 Jerzy P. Szaflarski, 1 Daniel Woo, 1 Rosie Miller, 1 Jane Khoury, 1 Dawn O. Kleindorfer, 1 Joseph P. Broderick, 2 William Cahill, and 1 Brett M. Kissela ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Department of Veteran's Affairs, Fresno, CA ) Rationale: Stroke-related seizures are frequently defined as early (within 2 weeks after stroke) and late. The incidence of early and late seizures is relatively well established. The incidence of acute seizures (≤24 hours after stroke) is unknown. In this population-based study, we aimed to establish the incidence of acute post-stroke seizures in a biracial cohort. We also sought to determine if there were any differences between race, stroke subtype, and stroke localization. Methods: All stroke cases between 7/93?6/94 within the population of the Greater Cincinnati metropolitan region were identified by review of all primary and secondary stroke diagnoses (ICD-9 codes 430?436) from 19 local acute-care hospitals, outpatient clinics, autopsy cases, and death certificates. Clinical and demographic data was collected by study nurses and subsequently reviewed by study physicians. The presence of seizures in the 24 hours after stroke symptom onset was obtained through additional record review; patients with a prior history of seizure were excluded. All available neuroimaging performed at the time of stroke was reviewed by study physicians. Variable Seizure No Seizure p-value Age (years) 67.0 ± 20.3 71.6 ± 13.0 0.01? Gender (male) 53 (43.4%) 1241 (44.2%) 0.88? Race (black) 18 (14.8%) ?473 (16.8%) 0.55? Hypertension 70 (57.4%) 1744 (62.1%) 0.30? Heart Disease 48 (39.3%) 1149 (40.9%) 0.73? Prior Stroke 31 (25.4%) ?652 (23.2%) 0.57? LVH on admission EKG 16 (13.1%) ?349 (12.4%) 0.82? Initial GCS 12 (3, 14) ??15 (14, 15) <0.0001 Initial Rankin ?0 (0, 3) ???0 (0, 3) 0.54? 30-day Mortality 35 (28.7%) ?361 (12.8%) <0.0001 Hemorrhagic Stroke 39 (32.0%) ?295 (10.5%) <0.0001 Data analyzed using logistic regression model Results: We identified 2932 strokes who had no prior history of seizures, of which 122 (4.2%) had seizures within the first 24 hours of stroke onset. Of ICH/SAH patients, 11.4% had a seizure within the first 24 hours of stroke onset (p ≤ 0.0001 vs. all stroke). In ischemic stroke, we observed a trend towards seizures being more common with cardioembolic stroke vs. all other ischemic stroke subtypes (4.5% vs. 2.9%, p = 0.07). There was a higher mortality rate in patients who developed stroke-related acute seizures. See table for additional detail. Conclusions: The overall rate of epileptic seizures within the first 24 hours of stroke onset is 4.2%. Risk factors for developing seizure activity include younger age, lower initial GCS score, and hemorrhagic stroke (ICH/SAH). Patients with stroke-related acute seizures have a higher 30-day mortality than patients without seizures. This may be related to a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke in this group. 1,2,3 N. Elshorst, 2 F.G. Woermann, 2 T. May, 2 H. Freitag, 2 S. Horstmann, 2 R. Schulz, 3 M.P. McAndrews, and 2,3 B. Pohlmann-Eden ( 1 Universitaetsklinikum Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany ; 2 Mara Hospital, Bethel Epilepsy Centre Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 3 Krembil Neuroscience Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada ) Rationale: To identify the best predictors of postoperative verbal memory decline in patients undergoing left temporal lobe excisions for epilepsy. Methods: A retrospective analysis was carried out using data from 59 patients with left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) who underwent en-bloc resection. Memory was measured by a standard word list-learning task (z-score for total number of words over 5 trials) administered before and after surgery. A new rating was devised for the MR images, to characterize the extent of hippocampal damage. Atrophy and signal change of the hippocampus were examined separately. Both changes were assessed on a scale: 0 = no change 1 = moderate atrophy/signal change, 2 = severe atrophy/signal change. The average of these two factors was calculated to classify the degree (range 0 to 2) of mesiotemporal sclerosis (MTS). The Wada results included number of correctly identified items after ipsilateral injection and contralateral injection (pass/fail boundary: 67%), as well as an asymmetry score. In various multiple regression analyses, Wada test scores (injection ipsilateral, injection contralateral, asymmetry score), neuropsychological test scores before surgery, MRI scores (atrophy, increased signal change, MTS) and further risk factors such as age of onset were entered as the independent variables. The difference in the verbal memory test was the dependent variable. Results: After surgery, 35% of the patients showed a memory decline indicated by a z-score loss of more than one point. The regression analyses revealed that the pre-operative memory test score was the strongest predictor of memory change (p < 0.05, adjusted R Square = 0.341). Higher preoperative performance in the verbal memory task was associated with a greater risk of verbal memory decline after surgery. The second significant predictor was the MTS classification (p < 0.05, adjusted R Square = 0.428). Greater damage to the hippocampus was associated with less decline following surgery. None of the other variables, including the Wada results and other risk factors, were significant predictors of memory outcome. Conclusions: The Wada test results did add to the prediction of verbal memory decline in this sample of patients in whom temporal lobe resection was considered safe with regard to the risk of amnesia (i.e., adequate memory functioning following ipsilesional injection compared to contralesional injection). Thus, the clinical data obtained routinely before surgery seems to be sufficient to predict risk of memory decline in the majority of TLE patients. However, our findings do not refute the usefulness of the Wada test for excluding from surgery those patients who are at risk for amnesia after temporal lobe resection. 1 Cigdem I. Akman, 1 Aviva Olgavsky, 1 Marla Hamberger, 1 Ronald Tikofsky, and 1 Frank Gilliam ( 1 Department of Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University, College of Physicians  2 Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ; and 3 Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: We investigated longitudinal changes in the volumes and shapes of the hippocampi of non-surgical and post-surgical patients with unilateral mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: Sixteen non-surgical patients had a repeat brain MRI with a mean interval of 3.7 years and 16 post-surgical patients had two postoperative MRI scans with a mean interval of 4.8 years. We measured ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal volumes (IHV and CHV) in the non-surgical group and CHV in the postsurgical group. Hippocampal shape deformity analysis (HSDA) was also performed in each group. Results: In non-surgical patients, both IHV and CHV decreased significantly between the two scans (7.3 ± 5.7%, p < 0.001 and 2.5 ± 2.6%, p = 0.002). Moreover, IHV percent decreases were significantly correlated with the number of total seizures between the two scans (r = 0.57, p = 0.02). HSDA also showed inward deformities in both ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi in non-surgical patients (uncorrected p < 0.05). In post-surgical patients, mean CHV (2481.1 ± 364.9 mm3) for first postsurgical scans was not significantly different from mean CHV (2480.4 ± 316.1 mm3) for second scans. Total seizure numbers during the year before surgery were negatively correlated with CHV losses between the two postsurgical scans (r =?0.72, p = 0.002). HSDA of contralateral hippocampi between the two postsurgical scans mainly showed outward deformities in head, body and tail but small inward deformities in tail. Conclusions: These results suggest that recurrent seizures induce progressive atrophy in both ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi, but that a seizure-free state after the resection of an epileptic focus prevents longitudinal volume loss of the contralateral hippocampus and may facilitate a partial volume increase.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Diao, Hong-Xiu
AU  - Jiang, Sheng
AU  - Gao, Pei-Yuan
AU  - Liu, Hai-Yu
AU  - Li, Jian-Nan
AU  - Fan, Hong-Gang
TI  - Comparison of the effects of propofol and emulsified isoflurane alone or combined with dexmedetomidine on induction of anesthesia in dogs
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
JA  - Vet Anaesth Analg
VL  - 43
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vaa.12287
DO  - doi:10.1111/vaa.12287
SP  - 145
EP  - 152
KW  - dexmedetomidine
KW  - dog
KW  - emulsified isoflurane
KW  - intravenous anesthesia
KW  - propofol
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Objective To compare the respective effects of propofol and emulsified isoflurane administered alone and in combination with dexmedetomidine on the quality of induction of anesthesia, physiological variables and recovery in dogs. Study design Prospective, randomized, experimental trial. Animals Thirty-six adult mixed-breed dogs. Methods Animals were randomly assigned to one of four induction protocols: propofol alone (group P); emulsified isoflurane alone (group EI); both propofol and dexmedetomidine (group PD), or both emulsified isoflurane and dexmedetomidine (group EID). Pulse rate (PR), respiratory rate (fR), non-invasive arterial blood pressure and arterial blood gases were measured at baseline, before induction, immediately after intubation (time 0), and at 5 minute intervals until the dog began to swallow and the trachea was extubated. The quality of induction and recovery, and degree of ataxia were scored by a single investigator unaware of group assignment. The durations of anesthesia and recovery, and the incidence of adverse events were recorded. Results There were no clinically significant differences among the groups in induction quality. Systolic arterial pressure was lower in EID compared with P at 5 minutes. PR and fR were lower in PD and EID compared with P after induction. The PaCO2 at 5 minutes was higher than at baseline in group P. Ataxia score was lower in EID than in P. Time from induction to extubation and time from extubation to sternal recumbency were lower in EID compared with PD. Conclusions and clinical relevance There were no clinically significant differences among the groups in induction quality. In PD and EID, but not in P, PR and fR were decreased after induction. The EID combination resulted in smooth and rapid induction and recovery and thus may be useful clinically for induction of anesthesia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yıldız, Barış Doğu
AU  - Özden, Sabri
AU  - Saylam, Barış
AU  - Martlı, Fahri
AU  - Tez, Mesut
TI  - Simplified scoring system for prediction of mortality in acute suppurative cholangitis
JO  - The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences
JA  - The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences
VL  - 34
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.kjms.2017.12.016
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.kjms.2017.12.016
SP  - 415
EP  - 419
KW  - Acute cholangitis
KW  - Suppurative
KW  - Mortality
KW  - Scoring system
KW  - Red cell distribution width
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Our objective in this study was to identify the factors contributing to mortality in acute suppurative cholangitis which could be tested easily in every emergency clinic. This is a retrospective study enrolling 104 patients with acute suppurative cholangitis. Demographic and laboratory data were collected for analysis. In univariant analysis red cell distribution width, total bilirubin level, intensive care unit admission was identified as statistically significant (p?<?0.05) to predict mortality. Three variables were statistically significant in multivariate analysis: total bilirubin level equal to or more than 6.9?mg/dl, red cell distribution width equal to or more than 14.45%, and admission to intensive care unit. We found a new scoring system for prediction of mortality in acute suppurative cholangitis utilizing only three variables. This would serve as a simplified, rapid way to direct patients for advanced interventions instead of wasting time with more complicated and time consuming multi-variable scoring systems.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Plenary II: Surgical Controversies 9:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 49
IS  - s7
SN  - 9780813811833
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
SP  - 497
EP  - 497
PY  - 2008
AB  - Robert E. Gross*, David W. Loring?, John T. Langfitt?, George A. Ojemann?, André Olivier? and Christoph Helmstaedter??*Department of Neurosurgery, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA; ?McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL; ?Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY; ?Department of Neurosurgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; ?Division of Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada and ?Bereich Neuropsychologie, Universitätsklinik für Epileptologie, Bonn, Germany Summary: The surgical treatment of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) by amygdalo-hippocampectomy (AH) has a high likelihood of yielding a seizure-free outcome and associated improvement in quality-of-life. Nevertheless, there are several important areas of controversy with regard to the surgical approach, differences of which may impact the rate of success and the incidence of adverse effects. Cognitive sequelae of temporal lobe surgery may result from (1) resection or transgression of the lateral (neocortical) temporal lobe or the temporal stem, which may lead to impairment in learning, and/or (2) resection of mesial structures, which may lead to decline in material-specific memory. The recent multi-center clinical trial analyzing the predictors of post-surgical quality-of-life will be discussed, including the finding that improvement depends on seizure-freedom irrespective of the occurrence of verbal memory decline. Nevertheless, it is incumbent on surgeons to minimize the occurrence of these cognitive sequelae while maximizing the possibility of seizure-freedom. Several approaches to gain access to the mesial structures will be compared with regard to cognitive outcome, including anterior temporal lobectomy (standard vs. tailored), trans-cortical selective AH and trans-sylvian selective AH, which differ in terms of their disruption of the temporal neocortex and temporal stem. Alternative approaches to the mesial resection will be compared with regard to seizure-free rates and the incidence of post-surgical decline in memory, including tailoring the hippocampal resection to the presence of inter-ictal epileptic spikes vs. performing a standardized resection, and the influence of the amount of hippocampal tissue resected. Open discussion of recent results addressing these important issues will hopefully either propel the field towards consensus, or highlight the need for further randomized clinical trials to improve patient outcome following amygdalo-hippocampectomy for MTLE.
ER  - 
