
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hall, Roanna J.
AU  - Watne, Leiv Otto
AU  - Cunningham, Emma
AU  - Zetterberg, Henrik
AU  - Shenkin, Susan D.
AU  - Wyller, Torgeir Bruun
AU  - MacLullich, Alasdair M.J.
C8  - GPS-16-0427.R1
TI  - CSF biomarkers in delirium: a systematic review
JO  - International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry
JA  - Int J Geriatr Psychiatry
VL  - 33
IS  - 11
SN  - 0885-6230
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/gps.4720
DO  - doi:10.1002/gps.4720
SP  - 1479
EP  - 1500
KW  - delirium pathophysiology
KW  - CSF biomarkers
KW  - neuroinflammation
PY  - 2018
AB  - Objective In recent years, there has been a blossoming of studies examining cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as a method of studying the pathophysiology of delirium. We systematically reviewed the literature for CSF studies in delirium and provide here a summary of the implications for our understanding of delirium pathophysiology. We also summarise the methods used for CSF analysis and discuss challenges and implications for future studies. Methods In this systematic review, we screened MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Web of Science, PubMed and the Cochrane Library for articles on CSF biomarkers in delirium, published on 3 September 2016. Studies were required to use Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders or International Classification of Diseases criteria for delirium or a validated tool. We excluded case reports. There were no other restrictions on study type. Results We identified 3280 articles from our initial search, and 22 articles were included in this review. All studies were prospective, including over 400 patients with delirium and 700 controls. More than 70 different biomarkers were studied. Studies could not be compared with each other for meta-analysis because of their heterogeneity and varied widely in their risk of bias and quality assessments. Conclusions The 22 studies identified in this review reveal a small but growing literature, in which many of the important hypotheses in delirium pathogenesis have been examined, but from which few firm conclusions can currently be drawn. Nevertheless, the overall interpretation of the literature supports the vulnerable brain concept, that is, that biomarker evidence of, for example, Alzheimer's disease pathology and/or neuroinflammation, is associated with delirium.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Brannan, Cody
AU  - Foulkes, Alexandra L.
AU  - Lázaro-Muñoz, Gabriel
TI  - Preventing discrimination based on psychiatric risk biomarkers
JO  - American Journal of Medical Genetics Part B: Neuropsychiatric Genetics
JA  - Am. J. Med. Genet.
VL  - 180
IS  - 2
SN  - 1552-4841
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.b.32629
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajmg.b.32629
SP  - 159
EP  - 171
KW  - genetics
KW  - genomics
KW  - law
KW  - mental health
KW  - stigma
PY  - 2019
AB  - Recent studies have identified genomic and nongenomic psychiatric risk biomarkers (PRBs; e.g., genomic variants, blood analytes, gray matter volume). PRBs may soon become a powerful tool for improving psychiatric care and prevention. PRB research and its translation to clinical care, however, may prove to be a double-edged sword. Mental health stigma and discrimination are already widespread, and data caution that biological explanations of psychiatric disorders can exacerbate these stigmatizing attitudes, increasing the desire for social distance and heightening the perceived dangerousness of the patient. As a reaction to the Human Genome Project and historical concerns about eugenics, the international community mobilized to establish legislation to prevent genomic discrimination. But in most countries, these laws are limited to few contexts (e.g., employment, health insurance), and very few countries protect against discrimination based on nongenomic risk biomarkers. Like genomic PRBs, nongenomic PRBs provide information regarding risk for stigmatized psychiatric disorders and have similar?and in some cases greater?predictive value. Numerous large-scale neuroscience and neurogenomics projects are advancing the identification and translation of PRBs. The prospect of PRB-based stigma however, threatens to undermine the potential benefits of this research. Unbridaled by nonexistent or limited PRB anti-discrimination protections, the threat of PRB-based stigma and discrimination may lead many to forego PRB testing, even if shown to have clinical utility. To maximize the clinical and social benefits of PRB-based technologies, educational campaigns should address mental health and PRB stigma, and lawmakers should carefully consider expanding legislation that prohibits PRB-based discrimination.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Henry, Mark S.
AU  - Passmore, Anthony P.
AU  - Todd, Stephen
AU  - McGuinness, Bernadette
AU  - Craig, David
AU  - Johnston, Janet A.
TI  - The development of effective biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease: a review
JO  - International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry
JA  - Int J Geriatr Psychiatry
VL  - 28
IS  - 4
SN  - 0885-6230
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/gps.3829
DO  - doi:10.1002/gps.3829
SP  - 331
EP  - 340
KW  - dementia
KW  - Alzheimer's disease
KW  - mild cognitive impairment
KW  - biomarkers
PY  - 2013
AB  - Objective There is a widely recognised need to develop effective Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers to aid the development of disease-modifying treatments, to facilitate early diagnosis and to improve clinical care. This overview aims to summarise the utility of key neuroimaging and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for AD, before focusing on the latest efforts to identify informative blood biomarkers. Design A literature search was performed using PubMed up to September 2011 for reviews and primary research studies of neuroimaging (magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, positron emission tomography and amyloid imaging), CSF and blood-based (plasma, serum and platelet) biomarkers in AD and mild cognitive impairment. Citations within individual articles were examined to identify additional studies relevant to this review. Results Evidence of AD biomarker potential was available for imaging techniques reflecting amyloid burden and neurodegeneration. Several CSF measures are promising, including 42 amino acid ?-amyloid peptide (A?42); total tau (T-tau) protein, reflecting axonal damage; and phosphorylated tau (P-tau), reflecting neurofibrillary tangle pathology. Studies of plasma A? have produced inferior diagnostic discrimination. Alternative plasma and platelet measures are described, which represent potential avenues for future research. Conclusions Several imaging and CSF markers demonstrate utility in predicting AD progression and determining aetiology. These require standardisation before forming core elements of diagnostic criteria. The enormous potential available for identifying a minimally-invasive, easily-accessible blood measure as an effective AD biomarker currently remains unfulfilled. Copyright ? 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jozwiak, Sergiusz
AU  - Becker, Albert
AU  - Cepeda, Carlos
AU  - Engel Jr, Jerome
AU  - Gnatkovsky, Vadym
AU  - Huberfeld, Gilles
AU  - Kaya, Mehmet
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Simonato, Michele
AU  - Loeb, Jeffrey A.
TI  - WONOEP appraisal: Development of epilepsy biomarkers—What we can learn from our patients?
JO  - Epilepsia
JA  - Epilepsia
VL  - 58
IS  - 6
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/epi.13728
DO  - doi:10.1111/epi.13728
SP  - 951
EP  - 961
KW  - Epileptogenesis
KW  - Human studies
KW  - Animal models
KW  - Electroencephalography
KW  - MRI
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary Objective Current medications for patients with epilepsy work in only two of three patients. For those medications that do work, they only suppress seizures. They treat the symptoms, but do not modify the underlying disease, forcing patients to take these drugs with significant side effects, often for the rest of their lives. A major limitation in our ability to advance new therapeutics that permanently prevent, reduce the frequency of, or cure epilepsy comes from a lack of understanding of the disease coupled with a lack of reliable biomarkers that can predict who has or who will get epilepsy. Methods The main goal of this report is to present a number of approaches for identifying reliable biomarkers from observing patients with brain disorders that have a high probability of producing epilepsy. Results A given biomarker, or more likely a profile of biomarkers, will have both a quantity and a time course during epileptogenesis that can be used to predict who will get the disease, to confirm epilepsy as a diagnosis, to identify coexisting pathologies, and to monitor the course of treatments. Significance Additional studies in patients and animal models could identify common and clinically valuable biomarkers to successfully translate animal studies into new and effective clinical trials.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mian, Amir
AU  - Becton, David
AU  - Saylors, Robert
AU  - James, Laura
AU  - Tang, Xinyu
AU  - Bhutta, Adnan
AU  - Prodhan, Parthak
TI  - Biomarkers for risk stratification of febrile neutropenia among children with malignancy: A pilot study
JO  - Pediatric Blood & Cancer
JA  - Pediatr. Blood Cancer
VL  - 59
IS  - 2
SN  - 1545-5009
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pbc.24158
DO  - doi:10.1002/pbc.24158
SP  - 238
EP  - 245
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - febrile neutropenia
KW  - outcomes
KW  - sepsis
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Background Patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy remain at increased risk for developing febrile neutropenia (FN). For this heterogeneous population, a biomarker based risk stratification of FN patients may be a useful clinical tool. We hypothesized that serum biomarkers during initial presentation of an FN event could be predictive of subsequent clinical outcome. Procedure Eighty-nine FN events from 36 non-consecutive subjects were analyzed. ?High-risk? FN criteria included prolonged hospitalization (≥7 days), admission to pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) or a microbiology confirmed bacteremia. Patients with ?low risk? FN had none of the above. Biomarkers measured during the first 2 days of FN hospitalization were analyzed and correlated with respective clinical outcome. Results Of the 89 FN events, 44 (49%) fulfilled pre-defined high-risk criteria and 45 (51%) were low-risk. Procalcitonin level (>0.11?ng/ml) was found to be associated with the high-risk FN outcome with sensitivity of 97%. With an increase in log scale by 1, the odds of being high-risk FN increased twofold. Hs-CRP >100?mg/L had sensitivity of 88% in predicting high-risk FN. The odds of a high-risk FN event increased by approximately 1.8-fold with an increase in the log scale of hs-CRP by 1 (10-fold). In univariate analysis, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 were statistically significant and associated with high-risk FN. However, no statistically significant difference was found for IL-1α, sIL-2Ra, IL-3, or TNF-α. Conclusions Biomarkers with appropriate critical threshold values may be a useful clinical tool for appropriate risk stratification of children with FN. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2012;59:238?245. ? 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Winblad, B.
AU  - Ankarcrona, M.
AU  - Johansson, G.
AU  - Novak, P.
AU  - Peter Thelin, E.
AU  - Zetterberg, H.
AU  - Blennow, K.
TI  - Head trauma in sports and risk for dementia
JO  - Journal of Internal Medicine
JA  - J Intern Med
VL  - 285
IS  - 6
SN  - 0954-6820
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/joim.12918
DO  - doi:10.1111/joim.12918
SP  - 591
EP  - 593
KW  - Alzheimer's disease
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - dementia
KW  - sports medicine
KW  - trauma
KW  - treatments
PY  - 2019
AB  - Content List - Read more articles from the symposium: ?Head Trauma in Sports and Risk for Dementia?.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ratanatharathorn, Andrew
AU  - Boks, Marco P.
AU  - Maihofer, Adam X.
AU  - Aiello, Allison E.
AU  - Amstadter, Ananda B.
AU  - Ashley-Koch, Allison E.
AU  - Baker, Dewleen G.
AU  - Beckham, Jean C.
AU  - Bromet, Evelyn
AU  - Dennis, Michelle
AU  - Garrett, Melanie E.
AU  - Geuze, Elbert
AU  - Guffanti, Guia
AU  - Hauser, Michael A.
AU  - Kilaru, Varun
AU  - Kimbrel, Nathan A.
AU  - Koenen, Karestan C.
AU  - Kuan, Pei-Fen
AU  - Logue, Mark W.
AU  - Luft, Benjamin J.
AU  - Miller, Mark W.
AU  - Mitchell, Colter
AU  - Nugent, Nicole R.
AU  - Ressler, Kerry J.
AU  - Rutten, Bart P. F.
AU  - Stein, Murray B.
AU  - Vermetten, Eric
AU  - Vinkers, Christiaan H.
AU  - Youssef, Nagy A.
AU  - VA Mid-Atlantic MIRECC Workgroup
AU  - PGC PTSD Epigenetics Workgroup
AU  - Uddin, Monica
AU  - Nievergelt, Caroline M.
AU  - Smith, Alicia K.
TI  - Epigenome-wide association of PTSD from heterogeneous cohorts with a common multi-site analysis pipeline
JO  - American Journal of Medical Genetics Part B: Neuropsychiatric Genetics
JA  - Am J Med Genet
VL  - 174
IS  - 6
SN  - 1552-4841
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.b.32568
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajmg.b.32568
SP  - 619
EP  - 630
KW  - EWAS
KW  - meta-analysis
KW  - stress
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2017
AB  - Compelling evidence suggests that epigenetic mechanisms such as DNA methylation play a role in stress regulation and in the etiologic basis of stress related disorders such as Post traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Here we describe the purpose and methods of an international consortium that was developed to study the role of epigenetics in PTSD. Inspired by the approach used in the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, we brought together investigators representing seven cohorts with a collective sample size of N?=?1147 that included detailed information on trauma exposure, PTSD symptoms, and genome-wide DNA methylation data. The objective of this consortium is to increase the analytical sample size by pooling data and combining expertise so that DNA methylation patterns associated with PTSD can be identified. Several quality control and analytical pipelines were evaluated for their control of genomic inflation and technical artifacts with a joint analysis procedure established to derive comparable data over the cohorts for meta-analysis. We propose methods to deal with ancestry population stratification and type I error inflation and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of applying robust error estimates. To evaluate our pipeline, we report results from an epigenome-wide association study (EWAS) of age, which is a well-characterized phenotype with known epigenetic associations. Overall, while EWAS are highly complex and subject to similar challenges as genome-wide association studies (GWAS), we demonstrate that an epigenetic meta-analysis with a relatively modest sample size can be well-powered to identify epigenetic associations. Our pipeline can be used as a framework for consortium efforts for EWAS.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rosenthal, Liana S.
AU  - Drake, Daniel
AU  - Alcalay, Roy N.
AU  - Babcock, Debra
AU  - Bowman, F. DuBois
AU  - Chen-Plotkin, Alice
AU  - Dawson, Ted M.
AU  - Dewey Jr., Richard B.
AU  - German, Dwight C.
AU  - Huang, Xuemei
AU  - Landin, Barry
AU  - McAuliffe, Matthew
AU  - Petyuk, Vladislav A.
AU  - Scherzer, Clemens R.
AU  - Hillaire-Clarke, Coryse St.
AU  - Sieber, Beth-Anne
AU  - Sutherland, Margaret
AU  - Tarn, Chi
AU  - West, Andrew
AU  - Vaillancourt, David
AU  - Zhang, Jing
AU  - Gwinn, Katrina
AU  - on behalf of the PDBP consortium
TI  - The NINDS Parkinson's disease biomarkers program
JO  - Movement Disorders
JA  - Mov Disord.
VL  - 31
IS  - 6
SN  - 0885-3185
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mds.26438
DO  - doi:10.1002/mds.26438
SP  - 915
EP  - 923
KW  - Parkinsonism
KW  - disease-modifying strategies
KW  - biofluids
KW  - data management
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Background Neuroprotection for Parkinson's disease (PD) remains elusive. Biomarkers hold the promise of removing roadblocks to therapy development. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has therefore established the Parkinson's Disease Biomarkers Program to promote discovery of PD biomarkers for use in phase II and III clinical trials. Methods Using a novel consortium design, the Parkinson's Disease Biomarker Program is focused on the development of clinical and laboratory-based biomarkers for PD diagnosis, progression, and prognosis. Standardized operating procedures and pooled reference samples were created to allow cross-project comparisons and assessment of batch effects. A web-based Data Management Resource facilitates rapid sharing of data and biosamples across the research community for additional biomarker projects. Results Eleven consortium projects are ongoing, seven of which recruit participants and obtain biosamples. As of October 2014, 1,082 participants have enrolled (620 PD, 101 with other causes of parkinsonism, 23 essential tremor, and 338 controls), 1,040 of whom have at least one biosample. Six thousand eight hundred ninety-eight total biosamples are available from baseline, 6-, 12-, and 18-month visits: 1,006 DNA, 1,661 RNA, 1,419 whole blood, 1,382 plasma, 1,200 serum, and 230 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Quality control analysis of plasma, serum, and CSF samples indicates that almost all samples are high quality (24 of 2,812 samples exceed acceptable hemoglobin levels). Conclusions By making samples and data widely available, using stringent operating procedures based on existing standards, hypothesis testing for biomarker discovery, and providing a resource that complements existing programs, the Parkinson's Disease Biomarker Program will accelerate the pace of PD biomarker research. ? 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Evans, Lucy P.
AU  - Newell, Elizabeth A.
AU  - Mahajan, MaryAnn
AU  - Tsang, Stephen H.
AU  - Ferguson, Polly J.
AU  - Mahoney, Jolonda
AU  - Hue, Christopher D.
AU  - Vogel III, Edward W.
AU  - Morrison III, Barclay
AU  - Arancio, Ottavio
AU  - Nichols, Russell
AU  - Bassuk, Alexander G.
AU  - Mahajan, Vinit B.
TI  - Acute vitreoretinal trauma and inflammation after traumatic brain injury in mice
JO  - Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology
JA  - Ann Clin Transl Neurol
VL  - 5
IS  - 3
SN  - 2328-9503
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/acn3.523
DO  - doi:10.1002/acn3.523
SP  - 240
EP  - 251
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Objective Limited attention has been given to ocular injuries associated with traumatic brain injury (TBI). The retina is an extension of the central nervous system and evaluation of ocular damage may offer a less-invasive approach to gauge TBI severity and response to treatment. We aim to characterize acute changes in the mouse eye after exposure to two different models of TBI to assess the utility of eye damage as a surrogate to brain injury. Methods A model of blast TBI (bTBI) using a shock tube was compared to a lateral fluid percussion injury model (LFPI) using fluid pressure applied directly to the brain. Whole eyes were collected from mice 3 days post LFPI and 24 days post bTBI and were evaluated histologically using a hematoxylin and eosin stain. Results bTBI mice showed evidence of vitreous detachment in the posterior chamber in addition to vitreous hemorrhage with inflammatory cells. Subretinal hemorrhage, photoreceptor degeneration, and decreased cellularity in the retinal ganglion cell layer was also seen in bTBI mice. In contrast, eyes of LFPI mice showed evidence of anterior uveitis and subcapsular cataracts. Interpretation We demonstrated that variations in the type of TBI can result in drastically different phenotypic changes within the eye. As such, molecular and phenotypic changes in the eye following TBI may provide valuable information regarding the mechanism, severity, and ongoing pathophysiology of brain injury. Because vitreous samples are easily obtained, molecular changes within the eye could be utilized as biomarkers of TBI in human patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ramlackhansingh, Anil F.
AU  - Brooks, David J.
AU  - Greenwood, Richard J.
AU  - Bose, Subrata K.
AU  - Turkheimer, Federico E.
AU  - Kinnunen, Kirsi M.
AU  - Gentleman, Steve
AU  - Heckemann, Rolf A.
AU  - Gunanayagam, Karen
AU  - Gelosa, Giorgio
AU  - Sharp, David J.
TI  - Inflammation after trauma: Microglial activation and traumatic brain injury
JO  - Annals of Neurology
JA  - Ann Neurol.
VL  - 70
IS  - 3
SN  - 0364-5134
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ana.22455
DO  - doi:10.1002/ana.22455
SP  - 374
EP  - 383
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Objective: Patient outcome after traumatic brain injury (TBI) is highly variable. The underlying pathophysiology of this is poorly understood, but inflammation is potentially an important factor. Microglia orchestrate many aspects of this response. Their activation can be studied in vivo using the positron emission tomography (PET) ligand [11C](R)PK11195 (PK). In this study, we investigate whether an inflammatory response to TBI persists, and whether this response relates to structural brain abnormalities and cognitive function. Methods: Ten patients, studied at least 11 months after moderate to severe TBI, underwent PK PET and structural magnetic resonance imaging (including diffusion tensor imaging). PK binding potentials were calculated in and around the site of focal brain damage, and in selected distant and subcortical brain regions. Standardized neuropsychological tests were administered. Results: PK binding was significantly raised in the thalami, putamen, occipital cortices, and posterior limb of the internal capsules after TBI. There was no increase in PK binding at the original site of focal brain injury. High PK binding in the thalamus was associated with more severe cognitive impairment, although binding was not correlated with either the time since the injury or the extent of structural brain damage. Interpretation: We demonstrate that increased microglial activation can be present up to 17 years after TBI. This suggests that TBI triggers a chronic inflammatory response particularly in subcortical regions. This highlights the importance of considering the response to TBI as evolving over time and suggests interventions may be beneficial for longer intervals after trauma than previously assumed. ANN NEUROL 2011;
ER  - 

AU  - Mally, Angela
C7  - pp. 171-194
TI  - Biomarkers as Tools for Predictive Safety Assessment: Novel Markers of Drug-Induced Kidney Injury
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527674183.ch09
DO  - doi:10.1002/9783527674183.ch09
SP  - 171-194
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
KW  - drug induced kidney injury
KW  - kidney injury molecule- 1 (KIM-1)
KW  - novel biomarkers
KW  - predictive toxicology
KW  - serum creatinine
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary The paramount aim of predictive toxicology in drug discovery and development is to assess the safety of drugs for use in humans. This chapter presents drug induced kidney injury as an example to illustrate the value and limitations of novel biomarkers by providing an overview of their (patho) physiological role and mechanistic link to toxicity, performance in experimental toxicity studies, approval by regulatory bodies, and application to preclinical decision making. Traditional markers of renal function such as serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) are inherently insensitive as they indicate kidney injury only when large amounts of the renal epithelium have been lost. The most widely studied urinary kidney biomarker is kidney injury molecule- 1 (KIM-1) encoded by the gene Havr1 (hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 1). Advances in science and technology (e.g., microRNAs, next-generation sequencing) may also offer unique opportunities for the discovery of predictive biomarkers.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Neumann, Tim
AU  - Spies, Claudia
TI  - Use of biomarkers for alcohol use disorders in clinical practice
JO  - Addiction
VL  - 98
IS  - s2
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1359-6357.2003.00587.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1359-6357.2003.00587.x
SP  - 81
EP  - 91
KW  - Alcohol
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - clinical
KW  - comorbidity
KW  - screening
PY  - 2003
AB  - ABSTRACT Background? Biomedical markers may provide additive objective information in screening and confirmation of acute or recent consumption, intoxication, relapse, heavy drinking, hazardous/harmful use/abuse and dependence and alcohol use related organ dysfunction (alcohol use-related disorders: AUDs). Aims? To review the use of biomarkers in clinical practice to detect AUDs. Findings? About one-fifth of the patients seen in clinical practice have AUDs, which offer a variety of treatment options if diagnosed. The diagnosis of AUDs relies on clinical and alcohol-related history, physical examination, questionnaires and laboratory values. No clinical available laboratory test [e.g. for acute abuse: alcohol in blood or breath; for chronic alcohol abuse: ?-glutamyl transferase (GGT), mean corpuscular volume (MCV), carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT)] is reliable enough on its own to support a diagnosis of alcohol dependence, harmful use or abuse. Sensitivities, specificities and the predictive values may vary considerably according to patient and control group characteristics (e.g. gender, age or related comorbidity). In patient groups with limited cooperation markers may be helpful when considering treatment options. Conclusions? More research is needed to determine the value of markers (single or combined, with questionnaires) in the context of clinical decision-making algorithms in defined settings and with defined dichotomous outcome variables.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tsukamoto, T.
AU  - Antonic, V.
AU  - El Hajj, I. I.
AU  - Stojadinovic, A.
AU  - Binion, D. G.
AU  - Izadjoo, M. J.
AU  - Yokota, H.
AU  - Pape, H. C.
AU  - Bauer, A. J.
TI  - Novel model of peripheral tissue trauma-induced inflammation and gastrointestinal dysmotility
JO  - Neurogastroenterology & Motility
VL  - 23
IS  - 4
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2982.2011.01675.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2982.2011.01675.x
SP  - 379
EP  - e164
KW  - gastrointestinal motility
KW  - ileus
KW  - inflammation
KW  - tissue injury
KW  - trauma
KW  - wound fluid
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Background? Trauma is a leading cause of death and although the gut is recognized as the ?motor? of post-traumatic systemic inflammatory response syndrome and multiple organ failure, studies on the gastrointestinal (GI) tract are few. Our objectives were to create a precisely controllable tissue injury model in which GI motility, systemic inflammation and wound fluid can be analyzed. Methods? A non-narcotic murine trauma model was developed by the subcutaneous dorsal trans-implantation of a devitalized donor syngeneic harvested tissue?bone matrix (TBX), which was precisely adjusted to % total body weight and studied after 21?h. Gastrointestinal transit histograms were plotted after the oral administration of non-digestible FITC-dextran and geometric centers calculated. Organ bath evaluated jejunal circular muscle contractility. Multiplex electrochemiluminescence measurements of serum and TBX wound fluid inflammatory mediators were performed. Key Results? Increasing TBX amounts progressively delayed transit, whereas TBX heat denaturation or decellularization prevented ileus and death. In the TBX17.5% model, jejunal muscle contractility was suppressed and a systemic inflammatory response developed as significant serum elevations in IL-6, keratinocyte cytokine and IL-10 compared to sham. In addition, inflammatory responses within the wound fluid showed elevated levels of preformed IL-1? and TNF-α, whereas, 21?h after implantation IL-1?, IL-6 and keratinocyte cytokine were significantly increased in the wound. Conclusions & Inferences? A novel donor tissue?bone matrix trauma model was developed that is precisely adjustable and recapitulates important clinical phenomena. The non-narcotic model demonstrated that increasing tissue injury progressively caused ileus, initiated a systemic inflammatory response and developed inflammatory changes within the wound.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Koerte, Inga K.
AU  - Lin, Alexander P.
AU  - Willems, Anna
AU  - Muehlmann, Marc
AU  - Hufschmidt, Jakob
AU  - Coleman, Michael J.
AU  - Green, Isobel
AU  - Liao, Huijun
AU  - Tate, David F.
AU  - Wilde, Elisabeth A.
AU  - Pasternak, Ofer
AU  - Bouix, Sylvain
AU  - Rathi, Yogesh
AU  - Bigler, Erin D.
AU  - Stern, Robert A.
AU  - Shenton, Martha E.
TI  - A Review of Neuroimaging Findings in Repetitive Brain Trauma
JO  - Brain Pathology
JA  - Brain Pathology
VL  - 25
IS  - 3
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bpa.12249
DO  - doi:10.1111/bpa.12249
SP  - 318
EP  - 349
KW  - neuroimaging
KW  - repetitive head injury
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is a neurodegenerative disease confirmed at postmortem. Those at highest risk are professional athletes who participate in contact sports and military personnel who are exposed to repetitive blast events. All neuropathologically confirmed CTE cases, to date, have had a history of repetitive head impacts. This suggests that repetitive head impacts may be necessary for the initiation of the pathogenetic cascade that, in some cases, leads to CTE. Importantly, while all CTE appears to result from repetitive brain trauma, not all repetitive brain trauma results in CTE. Magnetic resonance imaging has great potential for understanding better the underlying mechanisms of repetitive brain trauma. In this review, we provide an overview of advanced imaging techniques currently used to investigate brain anomalies. We also provide an overview of neuroimaging findings in those exposed to repetitive head impacts in the acute/subacute and chronic phase of injury and in more neurodegenerative phases of injury, as well as in military personnel exposed to repetitive head impacts. Finally, we discuss future directions for research that will likely lead to a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms separating those who recover from repetitive brain trauma vs. those who go on to develop CTE.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chandra, Shaneel
AU  - Siraj, Shajahan
AU  - Wong, Danny K. Y.
TI  - Recent Advances in Biosensing for Neurotransmitters and Disease Biomarkers using Microelectrodes
JO  - ChemElectroChem
JA  - ChemElectroChem
VL  - 4
IS  - 4
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201600810
DO  - doi:10.1002/celc.201600810
SP  - 822
EP  - 833
KW  - electrochemical biosensing
KW  - electrode arrays
KW  - neurotransmitter detection
KW  - disease biomarker detection
KW  - modified microelectrodes
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract This Minireview focuses on recent advances in the applications of microelectrodes to detect and monitor targeted analytes in bioelectrochemical processes. Notably, these processes are electrochemically driven reactions that involve the detection of targets from the biological realm. Wide-ranging applications of electrochemical sensors have been reported in the last few decades in various research fields, owing to favorable attributes such as high selectivity and sensitivity, rapid analysis, simplicity, easy fabrication, and cost effectiveness. Accordingly, in this Minireview, we explore recent advances in bioelectrochemistry based on small detection probes or structures modified for a variety of analytes, exploiting multi-approach advantages of enhanced electrochemical detection surface or targeted analyte pursuit. The target analytes included in this Minireview are neurotransmitters and disease biomarkers detected using enzymatic and non-enzymatic electrode modifications.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gramlich, Michael A.
AU  - Neer, Sandra M.
AU  - Beidel, Deborah C.
AU  - Bohil, Corey J.
AU  - Bowers, Clint A.
TI  - A Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Study of Trauma-Related Auditory and Olfactory Cues: Posttraumatic Stress Disorder or Combat Experience?
JO  - Journal of Traumatic Stress
JA  - JOURNAL OF TRAUMATIC STRESS
VL  - 30
IS  - 6
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jts.22239
DO  - doi:10.1002/jts.22239
SP  - 656
EP  - 665
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract The prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) among U.S. veterans deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan necessitates the need for comprehensive assessment and treatment strategies. This study investigated the utility of a combat-related PTSD symptom provocation paradigm to elicit unique neurological responses across three groups: combat veterans with PTSD, combat veterans without PTSD, and nonmilitary participants without PTSD. Using functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) the results indicated that combat veterans with PTSD demonstrated significant activation to a trauma-related sound compared with nonmilitary personnel, channel 14: d = 1.03, 95% confidence interval (CI) [0.28, 1.76]; channel 15: d = 1.30, 95% CI [0.53, 2.06]; and combat veterans without PTSD, channel 14: d = 0.87, 95% CI [0.14, 1.59]. Specifically, this increased neural activation was approximately located in the right medial superior prefrontal cortex (Brodmann areas 9/10), an area associated with experiencing negative or threatening stimuli and emotional detachment. There were no differences across the groups for nontrauma-related sounds. Results were less clear with respect to a combat-related odor. These results suggest a specific neurophysiological response to trauma-related cues and, if replicated, may offer a biomarker for combat-related PTSD. Such a response could provide incremental validity over diagnostic assessments alone and assist in planning and monitoring of treatment outcome.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jonsson, M.
AU  - Zetterberg, H.
AU  - Van Straaten, E.
AU  - Lind, K.
AU  - Syversen, S.
AU  - Edman, Å.
AU  - Blennow, K.
AU  - Rosengren, L.
AU  - Pantoni, L.
AU  - Inzitari, D.
AU  - Wallin, A.
TI  - Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers of white matter lesions – cross-sectional results from the LADIS study
JO  - European Journal of Neurology
VL  - 17
IS  - 3
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-1331.2009.02808.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1468-1331.2009.02808.x
SP  - 377
EP  - 382
KW  - axonal damage
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - cerebrospinal fluid
KW  - neurofilament
KW  - white matter
PY  - 2010
AB  - Background and purpose:? White matter lesions (WMLs) caused by small vessel disease are common in elderly people and contribute to cognitive impairment. There are no established biochemical markers for WMLs. We aimed to study the relation between degree of WMLs rated on magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of structural biomarkers associated with Alzheimer?s disease (AD) and subcortical vascular dementia. Methods:? Fifty-three non-demented elderly individuals with WMLs were subjected to lumbar puncture. Degree of WMLs was rated using the Fazekas scale. Volumetric assessment of WMLs was performed. CSF samples were analyzed for the 40 and 42 amino acid fragments of amyloid ?, α- and ?-cleaved soluble amyloid precursor protein, total tau (T-tau), hyperphosphorylated tau (P-tau181), neurofilament light protein (NFL), sulfatide and CSF/Serum-albumin ratio. Results:? Fifteen subjects had mild, 23 had moderate and 15 had severe degree of WMLs. CSF-NFL levels differed between the groups (P?<?0.001) and correlated with the volume of WMLs (r?=?0.477, P?<?0.001). CSF sulfatide concentration displayed similar changes but less strongly. T-tau, P-tau181 and the different amyloid markers as well as CSF/S-albumin ratio did not differ significantly between the groups. Conclusions:? The association of increased CSF-NFL levels with increasing severity of WMLs in non-demented subjects suggests that NFL is a marker for axonal damage in response to small vessel disease in the brain. This manifestation may be distinct from or earlier than the neurodegenerative process seen in AD, as reflected by the lack of association between WMLs and AD biomarkers.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vasudeva, Kanika
AU  - Munshi, Anjana
TI  - miRNA dysregulation in ischaemic stroke: Focus on diagnosis, prognosis, therapeutic and protective biomarkers
JO  - European Journal of Neuroscience
JA  - Eur J Neurosci
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ejn.14695
DO  - doi:10.1111/ejn.14695
KW  - biomarker
KW  - brain injury
KW  - miRNA
KW  - mRNA
KW  - stroke
AB  - Abstract Stroke is one of the leading causes of death and disability in both developing and developed countries. Biomarkers for stroke and its outcome can greatly facilitate early detection and management of the disease. miRNAs have been explored for their potential as biomarkers for diagnosis, prognosis and brain injury in ischaemic stroke. A substantial body of evidence suggests that miRNAs play key roles in numerous cellular changes following ischaemic stroke including mitochondrial dysfunction, energy failure, cytokine-mediated cytotoxicity, oxidative stress, activation of glial cells, increased intracellular calcium levels inflammatory responses and disruption of the blood?brain barrier (BBB). In addition, targeting specific miRNAs, therapeutic modulation of brain injury and apoptosis can also be achieved. Therefore, the current review has been compiled within an aim to give an overview of the developments exploiting miRNAs at different stages of stroke as prognostic, diagnostic, protective and therapeutic biomarkers.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tan, Xue Ting
AU  - Amran, Fairuz binti
AU  - Thayan, Ravindran
AU  - Ahmad, Norazah
AU  - Jaafar, Roslinda
AU  - Haron, Rahimah
AU  - Abdullah, Rafidah
AU  - bin Shamsuddin, Sazwan Reezal
AU  - Md. Riffin, Nor Suhaila binti
AU  - Abdul-Rahman, Puteri Shafinaz
TI  - Potential serum biomarkers associated with mild and severe leptospirosis infection: A cohort study in the Malaysian population
JO  - ELECTROPHORESIS
JA  - ELECTROPHORESIS
VL  - 38
IS  - 17
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/elps.201600471
DO  - doi:10.1002/elps.201600471
SP  - 2141
EP  - 2149
KW  - Biomarker
KW  - Leptospirosis
KW  - Mild
KW  - Severe
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Leptospirosis is an emerging zoonotic infectious disease in Malaysia. The symptoms of leptospirosis vary from mild nonspecific flu-like illness to a severe condition which is usually associated with serious complication and fatality. To study the protein expression profile of mild and severe leptospirosis, 15 paired sera were collected from the patients who were mildly infected and following that progressed to severe stage. The proteome profiles of mild and severe cases were studied using 2DE analysis in combination with LC-MS/MS. The expression of proteins that were significantly different and had a fold difference of at least 2 had been identified and then validated using Western blot. Our study demonstrated apolipoprotein A-I (APOA-I), serum amyloid A (SAA), transferrin (TF), haptoglobin (HP) and transthyretin (TTR) have significantly different expression between mild and severe leptospirosis. The Ingenuity Pathway Analysis software suggested the expression of these five proteins were modulated by acute phase response signaling pathway. Besides that, a functional network of lipid metabolism, molecular transport and small molecule biochemistry that interconnects these five proteins with interactomes also had been predicted by this software. In conclusion, this finding supports the potential of these five proteins to be the biomarkers for mild and severe human leptospirosis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pagnozzi, Alex M.
AU  - Conti, Eugenia
AU  - Calderoni, Sara
AU  - Fripp, Jurgen
AU  - Rose, Stephen E.
TI  - A systematic review of structural MRI biomarkers in autism spectrum disorder: A machine learning perspective
JO  - International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience
JA  - International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience
VL  - 71
IS  - C
SN  - 9783527336081
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2018.08.010
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2018.08.010
SP  - 68
EP  - 82
KW  - Autism spectrum disorder
KW  - Structural magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - Biomarkers
KW  - Machine learning
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) affects approximately 1% of the population and leads to impairments in social interaction, communication and restricted, repetitive behaviours. Establishing robust neuroimaging biomarkers of ASD using structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an important step for diagnosing and tailoring treatment, particularly early in life when interventions can have the greatest effect. However currently, there is mixed findings on the structural brain changes associated with autism. Therefore in this systematic review, recent (post-2007), high-resolution (3?T) MRI studies investigating brain morphology associated with ASD have been collated to identify robust neuroimaging biomarkers of ASD. A systematic search was conducted on three databases; PubMed, Web of Science and Scopus, resulting in 123 reviewed articles. Patients with ASD were observed to have increased whole brain volume, particularly under 6 years of age. Other consistent changes observed in ASD patients include increased volume in the frontal and temporal lobes, increased cortical thickness in the frontal lobe, increased surface area and cortical gyrification, and increased cerebrospinal fluid volume, as well as reduced cerebellum volume and reduced corpus callosum volume, compared to typically developing controls. Findings were inconsistent regarding the developmental trajectory of brain volume and cortical thinning with age in ASD, as well as potential volume differences in the white matter, hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus and basal ganglia. To elucidate these inconsistencies, future studies should look towards aggregating MRI data from multiple sites or available repositories to avoid underpowered studies, as well as utilising methods which quantify larger-scale image features to reduce the number of statistical tests performed, and hence risk of false positive findings. Additionally, studies should look to perform a thorough validation strategy, to ensure generalisability of study findings, as well as look to leverage the improved image resolution of 3?T scanning to identify subtle brain changes related to ASD.
ER  - 
