
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jana, Soumen
AU  - Levengood, Sheeny K. Lan
AU  - Zhang, Miqin
TI  - Anisotropic Materials for Skeletal-Muscle-Tissue Engineering
JO  - Advanced Materials
JA  - Adv. Mater.
VL  - 28
IS  - 48
SN  - 0935-9648
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201600240
DO  - doi:10.1002/adma.201600240
SP  - 10588
EP  - 10612
KW  - anisotropic materials
KW  - micropatterned substrates
KW  - muscles
KW  - nanofibers
KW  - scaffolds
KW  - tissue engineering
PY  - 2016
AB  - Repair of damaged skeletal-muscle tissue is limited by the regenerative capacity of the native tissue. Current clinical approaches are not optimal for the treatment of large volumetric skeletal-muscle loss. As an alternative, tissue engineering represents a promising approach for the functional restoration of damaged muscle tissue. A typical tissue-engineering process involves the design and fabrication of a scaffold that closely mimics the native skeletal-muscle extracellular matrix (ECM), allowing organization of cells into a physiologically relevant 3D architecture. In particular, anisotropic materials that mimic the morphology of the native skeletal-muscle ECM, can be fabricated using various biocompatible materials to guide cell alignment, elongation, proliferation, and differentiation into myotubes. Here, an overview of fundamental concepts associated with muscle-tissue engineering and the current status of muscle-tissue-engineering approaches is provided. Recent advances in the development of anisotropic scaffolds with micro- or nanoscale features are reviewed, and how scaffold topographical, mechanical, and biochemical cues correlate to observed cellular function and phenotype development is examined. Finally, some recent developments in both the design and utility of anisotropic materials in skeletal-muscle-tissue engineering are highlighted, along with their potential impact on future research and clinical applications.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cottrell, James E.
AU  - Hartung, John
TI  - Developmental Disability in the Young and Postoperative Cognitive Dysfunction in the Elderly After Anesthesia and Surgery: Do Data Justify Changing Clinical Practice?
JO  - Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine: A Journal of Translational and Personalized Medicine
JA  - Mt Sinai J Med
VL  - 79
IS  - 1
SN  - 0027-2507
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/msj.21283
DO  - doi:10.1002/msj.21283
SP  - 75
EP  - 94
KW  - anesthetics
KW  - dendritic spines
KW  - learning disabilities
KW  - neurodevelopment
KW  - neurogenesis
KW  - neuronal apoptosis
KW  - neuronal preconditioning
KW  - postoperative cognitive dysfunction
KW  - postoperative delirium
KW  - sedatives
KW  - synaptogenesis.
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract The assumption that anesthesia has no serious, long-term, adverse central nervous system consequences may be true for most patients between 6 months and 60 years of age. However, for patients younger than 6 months or older than 60 years, that status quo assumption is under challenge from a growing body of evidence. Fetuses and newborns appear to be at risk because systems that would enable them to fully recover from the effects of more than 2 hours of anesthesia are still in development. In distinction, the elderly appear to be at risk because systems that once enabled them to fully recover have ever-diminishing capacity. Even for those between the age of 6 months and 60 years, full recovery may require replacing apoptosed neurons and pruning overabundant dendritic spines ? perhaps leaving patients not quite the same person that they were before they were anesthetized. Mt Sinai J Med 79:75?94, 2012. ? 2012 Mount Sinai School of Medicine
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rasmussen, Line Jee Hartmann
AU  - Moffitt, Terrie E.
AU  - Eugen-Olsen, Jesper
AU  - Belsky, Daniel W.
AU  - Danese, Andrea
AU  - Harrington, HonaLee
AU  - Houts, Renate M.
AU  - Poulton, Richie
AU  - Sugden, Karen
AU  - Williams, Benjamin
AU  - Caspi, Avshalom
TI  - Cumulative childhood risk is associated with a new measure of chronic inflammation in adulthood
JO  - Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry
JA  - J Child Psychol Psychiatr
VL  - 60
IS  - 2
SN  - 0021-9630
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jcpp.12928
DO  - doi:10.1111/jcpp.12928
SP  - 199
EP  - 208
KW  - Adverse childhood experiences
KW  - self-control
KW  - inflammation
KW  - physical health
KW  - risk factors
PY  - 2019
AB  - Background Childhood risk factors are associated with elevated inflammatory biomarkers in adulthood, but it is unknown whether these risk factors are associated with increased adult levels of the chronic inflammation marker soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR). We aimed to test the hypothesis that childhood exposure to risk factors for adult disease is associated with elevated suPAR in adulthood and to compare suPAR with the oft-reported inflammatory biomarker C-reactive protein (CRP). Methods Prospective study of a population-representative 1972?1973 birth cohort; the Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Study observed participants to age 38 years. Main childhood predictors were poor health, socioeconomic disadvantage, adverse childhood experiences (ACEs), low IQ, and poor self-control. Main adult outcomes were adulthood inflammation measured as suPAR and high-sensitivity CRP (hsCRP). Results Participants with available plasma samples at age 38 were included (N = 837, 50.5% male). suPAR (mean 2.40 ng/ml; SD 0.91) was positively correlated with hsCRP (r 0.15, p < .001). After controlling for sex, body mass index (BMI), and smoking, children who experienced more ACEs, lower IQ, or had poorer self-control showed elevated adult suPAR. When the five childhood risks were aggregated into a Cumulative Childhood Risk index, and controlling for sex, BMI, and smoking, Cumulative Childhood Risk was associated with higher suPAR (b 0.10; SE 0.03; p = .002). Cumulative Childhood Risk predicted elevated suPAR, after controlling for hsCRP (b 0.18; SE 0.03; p < .001). Conclusions Exposure to more childhood risk factors was associated with higher suPAR levels, independent of CRP. suPAR is a useful addition to studies connecting childhood risk to adult inflammatory burden.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stanghelle, J. K.
AU  - Koss, J. O.
AU  - Bjørtuft, Ø.
AU  - Geiran, O.
TI  - Marathon with cystic fibrosis and bilateral lung transplant
JO  - Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports
VL  - 10
IS  - 1
SN  - 0905-7188
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1034/j.1600-0838.2000.010001042.x
DO  - doi:10.1034/j.1600-0838.2000.010001042.x
SP  - 42
EP  - 46
PY  - 2000
AB  - The article presents studies performed before, during and after a marathon run (42 195 m) in a 32-year-old man who underwent a bilateral lung transplantation because of end-stage cystic fibrosis (CF) 15 months prior to the race. Before the run his FEV1 was 81% predicted, compared with 19% predicted before the operation, and his maximal oxygen uptake was 31.9 ml/kg?1/min?1. He completed the New York City Marathon 1998 without major problems in 7 h 8 min 50s. Pulmonary tests, biochemical changes and endocrine responses indicated transient changes, mostly as expected in healthy marathon runners. The case demonstrates that physiological trainability and psychological will power following a successful bilateral lung transplantation can transform a chronically ill CF patient into a robust marathon runner.
ER  - 

AU  - Mahon, Althea
C7  - pp. 147-177
TI  - Investigations in Kidney Disease
SN  - 9781119413141
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119413172.ch7
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119413172.ch7
SP  - 147-177
KW  - biochemical blood tests
KW  - diagnostic tests
KW  - erythropoietin stimulating agents
KW  - glomerular filtration rate
KW  - invasive investigations
KW  - kidney biopsy
KW  - kidney function tests
KW  - phlebotomy
KW  - radiographic investigations
PY  - 2000
AB  - Summary Patients referred to a nephrologist are subjected to a bewildering array of diagnostic tests and procedures. This chapter explains the procedures commonly undertaken in the diagnosis of acute kidney injury (AKI) and chronic kidney disease. It covers the tests including those involving blood and urine, radiological tests, invasive investigations, and methods of evaluating glomerular filtration rate. The chapter discusses investigations that are carried out prior to initiating anaemia treatments, such as erythropoietin stimulating agents (ESAs), as well as those used in cases of diminished response to ESAs. It evaluates the nurse's role in post-procedure care. The World Health Organization published guidelines on best phlebotomy practices, recommending standards for quality care that include laboratory sampling and the maintenance of quality control. Nurses must complete the necessary training before carrying out a new role, such as venepuncture.
ER  - 

AU  - Sharkey, Leslie
C7  - pp. 75-80
TI  - Miscellaneous Solutes
SN  - 9781118739792
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118922798.ch11
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118922798.ch11
SP  - 75-80
KW  - bile acids
KW  - bilirubin
KW  - blood ammonia
KW  - equine laboratory diagnostics
KW  - equine physiology
KW  - lactate
PY  - 2000
AB  - Summary Bilirubin, bile acids, ammonia, and lactate are four substances measured in the blood for equine laboratory diagnostic purposes. Serum bilirubin quantitation is usually performed as part of a complete serum biochemical profile, while serum bile acids, ammonia, and lactate are ordered as individual tests, generally based on clinical suspicion for conditions that cause increases in blood content. For each analyte, this chapter discusses basic physiologic regulation, recommendations for sample collection and submission, and diagnostic applications and interpretation. Unique aspects of equine physiology present diagnostic challenges for the equine clinician. The also chapter addresses these challenges. Blood ammonia is most commonly measured as an indicator of liver dysfunction, typically when the animal has neurologic signs for which hepatic encephalopathy is a differential diagnosis. Horses with histopathologically confirmed liver disease and neurologic signs frequently have elevated blood ammonia, although values may transiently drop into the normal range as clinical signs wax and wane.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dupont, S.
AU  - Butaye, P.
AU  - Claerebout, E.
AU  - Theuns, S.
AU  - Duchateau, L.
AU  - Van de Maele, I.
AU  - Daminet, S.
TI  - Enteropathogens in pups from pet shops and breeding facilities
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 54
IS  - 9
SN  - 9781118739792
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12119
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12119
SP  - 475
EP  - 480
PY  - 2013
AB  - Objectives To evaluate faecal and clinical scores and presence of several enteropathogens possibly implicated in the development of diarrhoea in pups aged between 6 and 16 weeks independently of their health status. Methods Pups were selected from pet shops and breeding facilities and assigned a faecal and clinical score. Standard isolation methods were used to determine presence of parasites, viruses and bacteria in faecal samples. For Escherichia coli, virulence genes were assessed by multiplex polymerase chain reaction. Results Fifty-six pups were included in this study. Eighteen had no diarrhoea, 22 had no significant clinical signs related to gastroenteritis. Samples were positive for Toxocara canis (n=29), Giardia duodenalis (n=35), Cystoisospora (n=22), E. coli (n=47) and Clostridium perfringens (n=20). In four E. coli positive samples, genes were detected that correlate with pathogenicity in other animal species. A significant positive correlation between the presence of T. canis and faecal score was found. Clinical Significance Puppies obtained from a pet shop or breeding facility have a high risk of gastrointestinal disease. Furthermore, infectious agents may be present independently of faecal or clinical score. The identification of possible pathogenic E. coli strains suggests that their role in diarrhoea warrant further investigation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Paul, AL
AU  - Shaw, SP
AU  - Rozanski, EA
TI  - HOSPITAL PERSONNEL'S PERCEPTION AND KNOWLEDGE OF HOSPITAL ACQUIRED INFECTION CONTROL
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 14
IS  - S1
SN  - 9781118739792
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-10-04035.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-10-04035.x
SP  - S1
EP  - S17
PY  - 2004
AB  - Hospital acquired infections (HAI) are a major source of morbidity and mortality in human and veterinary hospitals. Research in human hospitals has shown that well focused staff education is an important step in limiting the development of HAI. Our hospital currently has no training program with respect to HAI. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the general knowledge of hospital staff concerning HAI as the first step in developing a hospital wide education program. Ninety doctors and technicians were given a questionnaire containing 15 questions about HAI. The questionnaires were hand distributed and immediately completed. Ten of the questions tested knowledge of HAI, while five questions concerned the individual's perception of HAI in our hospital. Answers were given as a range from strongly agree to strongly disagree or in the form of multiple choice. With respect to their perception of HAI, 66% of technicians and 50% of doctors believed that they possess a good working knowledge of HAI. Several areas for improvement in hospital staff knowledge were identified. Technicians were more likely than doctors to incorrectly believe that 1) routine environmental cultures are effective at preventing HAI (percent correct answer: technicians 30%, doctors 52%), 2) that all animals that aspirated gastric contents under anesthesia develop clinical evidence of pneumonia (percent correct answer: technicians 55%, doctors 84%), and 3) that animals with an indwelling urinary catheter should be treated with prophylactic antibiotics (percent correct answer: technicians 51%, doctors 90%). In addition, doctors were more likely to identify Amikacin as the antibiotic of choice for patients with HAI in our hospital (percent correct answer: technicians 27%, doctors 79%). Neither group was able to adequately identify the patients in the ICU as the primary reservoir for the multi-drug resistant pathogens that cause HAI (percent correct answer: technicians 20%, doctors 15%). The discrepancy in knowledge between the two groups is likely explained by attendance of faculty, residents, and interns at one or more continuing education rounds sessions where HAI were discussed. This finding is contrary to what is frequently found in human hospitals where the nursing staff typically demonstrates superior knowledge of HAI when compared to doctors. The results of this study demonstrate that knowledge of HAI is not optimal in both the doctors and technicians in our hospital. Further better focused efforts are warranted to address the educational shortcomings evidenced by this study.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: Computer Analysis of EEG
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9781118739792
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_34.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_34.x
SP  - 312
EP  - 324
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Tomoyuki Akiyama, 2 Hiroshi Otsubo, 2 Ayako Ochi, 2 Rajesh RamachandranNair, 2 Irene Elliot, 2 Elizabeth Donner, 2 Shelly K. Weiss, 2 James T. Rutka, and 2 O. Carter Snead III ( 1 Department of Child Neurology, Okayama University Hospital, Okayama, Okayama, Japan ; and 2 Division of Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Multiple band frequency analysis (MBFA), a new frequency analysis method, provides better frequency and temporal resolutions than fast Fourier or wavelet transform. We evaluated dynamic changes of high frequency oscillations (HFOs) on brain surface maps using MBFA to localize epileptogenic zones in neocortical epilepsy. Methods: We studied 2 children with intractable neocortical epilepsy by subdural EEG (SDEEG) at 1 KHz sampling rate. We performed MBFA for 1?5 second ictal EEG using the software Short Spectrum Eye (Gram, Saitama, Japan). We identified HFOs, determined the frequency range, and calculated averaged powers at every 10 ms for all electrodes. We imported the averaged powers into a topographic mapping program Prism and Insight (Persyst, Prescott, AZ) to visualize HFO powers on the brain surface picture. To analyze temporal interrelationships of regions with HFOs, we arranged HFO power maps at every 20 ms to project movies of ictal HFOs on the brain surface. Case 1: A 17 year old right handed girl presented with simple partial seizures consisting of numbness and tingling sensations in the right arm followed by clonic movements and secondary generalization. Case 2: A 14 year old left handed boy with asymmetric epileptic spasms in clusters. Results: Case 1; During partial seizures, MBFA of 25-channel SDEEG showed 80?130 Hz HFOs over the middle portion of the left postcentral gyrus and upper portion of the left post- and pre-central gyri. Sequential power maps of 80?130 Hz HFOs revealed high powers over these 2 regions, and reverberating power changes between them with a maximum at the middle portion of postcentral gyrus. We resected the upper and middle portions of left postcentral gyrus. She has rare and brief partial motor seizures without sensory aura and secondary generalization 9 months after surgery. Case 2; During spasms, MBFA of 106-channel SDEEG showed extensive but noncontiguous 60?150 Hz HFOs over the right superior and inferior frontal, and middle temporal gyri. Sequential power maps of 80?120 Hz HFOs revealed initial high power over the right superior frontal gyrus and subsequent activations over other 2 regions. We performed partial right frontal lobectomy, cortical excisions of the superior and inferior frontal gyri, and middle temporal gyrus where predominant HFOs existed. He is seizure free 6 months after surgery. Conclusions: The combination of MBFA and sequential brain surface HFO power mapping enabled us to recognize the localization and dynamic changes of ictal HFOs. This spatial and temporal analysis of HFO cortical mapping may disclose the behavior of ictal networks in the cortical epileptogenic zones. 1 Eishi Asano, 1 Csaba Juhasz, 1 Aashit Shah, 1 Otto Muzik, 1 Diane C. Chugani, 1 Sandeep Sood, and 1 Harry T. Chugani ( 1 Pediatrics, Neurology, Radiology, Neurosurgery, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: Cortical tubers are the hallmark of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and are usually associated with overlying and surrounding gray matter on MRI. In the present study, we have quantitatively analyzed ictal electrocorticography (ECoG) data using subdural and depth electrodes to determine whether epileptic seizures originate more frequently from glucose hypometabolic cortex surrounding a tuber than normometabolic cortex. Secondly, we asked whether epileptic seizures are generated by a cortical tuber itself or the cortex surrounding a tuber in children with TSC. Methods: We studied a series of 16 children with TSC and uncontrolled seizures (age: 5 months to 16 years; 11 boys), who underwent MRI, glucose metabolism PET and prolonged intracranial ECoG recording for subsequent cortical resection. The location of electrodes was derived from planar X-rays and displayed on the 3D brain surface reconstructed from MRIs showing the location of tubers and also hypometabolic areas from co-registered PET scans (Muzik et al, Neurology 2000). For each seizure event, the center of ictal discharges was objectively defined as the electrode showing the maximal increase of ECoG magnitude specific to an ictal onset in a seizure consisting of continuous rhythmic activity or the electrode showing the maximal spike magnitude in a seizure consisting of periodic spike activity or a single spike followed by fast wave bursts (Asano et al, Epilepsia 2005 [in press]). We performed a one-sample t-test to determine whether the center of ictal discharges was located more frequently in glucose hypometabolic regions than normometabolic regions, and whether the center of ictal discharges was located more frequently in the cortex surrounding a tuber than the cortical tuber itself. Results: A total of 70 seizures were objectively analyzed in the subjects where subdural electrodes but not depth electrodes were placed on the presumed epileptic hemisphere. In 57 out of the 70 seizures, the center of ictal discharges was located in the glucose hypometabolic cortices. Ictal discharges arose more frequently from the glucose hypometabolic cortex than from normometabolic cortex (p < 0.001). In a single subject where a depth electrode was inserted into a tuber, no spontaneous seizures were captured and we were not able to determine the location of ictal onset zones. Conclusions: These results suggest that most of the epileptic seizures in children with TSC may be generated by glucose hypometabolic regions associated with either the dysplastic cortex surrounding a tuber or the tuber itself. Further studies of patients with depth electrodes are required to determine whether epileptic seizures are generated by a cortical tuber itself or the cortex surrounding a tuber in children with TSC. (Supported by NIH: K23NS047550.) 1 Chad Carlson, 1 Catherine Schevon, 3 Werner Doyle, 3 Howard Weiner, 2 Joshua Cappell, 2 Ronald Emerson, 2 Lawrence Hirsch, 2 Robert Goodman, 1 Orrin Devinsky, 1 Steven Pacia, and 1 Ruben Kuzniecky ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurological Institute, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: Traditional review of scalp and intracranial subdural video-EEG studies rely primarily upon the visual analysis of the interictal and ictal patterns. In many patients, particularly those with multifocal or neocortical epilepsy, seizures are difficult to localize due to rapid spread of ictal activity and high frequency rhythms that may elude detection, potentially affecting the surgical outcome. Time-frequency analysis is a conceptually simple technique that, when applied to intracranial EEG recordings, may reveal information that is not apparent to visual inspection alone. To facilitate its use, an easily interpreted visual presentation was created that provides an overview of the activity of the complete EEG montage. This case series examines the role of spectral time-frequency analysis in five patients with medically refractory epilepsy who underwent invasive subdural electrode video-EEG studies. Methods: Interictal and ictal recordings were studied from five patients who underwent intracranial subdural electrode studies for seizure localization as part of a presurgical evaluation. Time-frequency spectral analysis was performed on all channels over sequential one-second time windows. The spectrogram over the 1?200 Hz frequency range was displayed using a colormap with intensity corresponding to the logarithm of the FFT of the input signal over a one-second time window; the colormap is fixed for a given sequence to allow comparisons over time and between channels. EEG was recorded on a Nicolet Bravo system with a sampling rate of 400 Hz/channel and bandpass filtered (4th order Butterworth) at 0.5?125 Hz. All computations were implemented in Matlab. Results: Spectral analysis of seizure onsets are shown for the five patients and compared to the clinical interpretation. In four cases, the additional information provided confirmatory support for the clinical localization, while in the fourth case the analysis supported an alternative candidate seizure focus, an observation consistent with the surgical outcome. Conclusions: This case series illustrates the complementary role of spectral time-frequency analysis in the setting of intracranial EEG recordings, as well as the importance of a unified presentation that permits direct comparisons between channels. The role of this technique in providing information not apparent on visual EEG interpretation and its contribution to the evaluation of complex neocortical epilepsies, as well as its potential effect on surgical outcome, warrants further assessment. (Supported by FACES.) 1 Wanpracha A. Chaovalitwongse, 2 Rajesh C. Sachdeo, 3 Panos M. Pardalos, 4 Leonidas D. Iasemidis, and 5 J. C. Sackellares ( 1 Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ ; 2 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, St. Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ ; 3 Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 4 Bioengineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ ; and 5 Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: At least 2 million people in the U.S. (1% of population) currently suffer from epilepsy. The most disabling aspect of epilepsy is recurrent seizures, in which the majority of epileptic patients (at least 1 million) feel that they get inadequate treatments or seizures cannot be controlled by available treatments. It is very clear that improved treatments are desperately needed. In this study, we herein propose novel quantitative approaches that can detect abnormalities in the brain's electrical activity. The results of this study will pave our way to the development of an Automated Brain Activity Classifier, which is a prerequisite of seizure prediction process. Methods: Continuous 26-channel long-term intracranial EEG recordings previously obtained in 3 patients with medically intractable partial seizures were used to test the automated brain activity classifier. Patient 1 had 15 seizures in a 10-day recording; patient 2 had 8 seizures in 6 days; patient 3 had 7 seizures in 12 days. The automated brain activity classifier involved the following steps: (1) quantify the chaoticity properties (i.e., Lyapunov exponents, angular frequency, entropy) of the brain dynamics, (2a) use the statistical cross validation technique to estimate statistical distances between an EEG epoch and the brain activity from different physiological states (normal, pre-seizure, post-seizure), (2b) use optimization techniques to find support vector machines to separate different brain physiological states, (3) classify the EEG epoch to the physiological state of the most brain activity (smallest statistical distance). Results: The sensitivities of the statistical cross validation approach in classifying pre-seizure EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 89.39%, 85.71%, and 84.44%, respectively and the sensitivities in classifying normal EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 93.50%, 78.00%, and 75.00%, respectively. The sensitivities of the support vector machines approach in classifying pre-seizure EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 81.21%, 71.18%, and 74.13%, respectively and the sensitivities in classifying normal EEG's in patients 1, 2, and 3 were 87.46%, 76.85%, and 70.60%, respectively. Conclusions: Based on the proposed statistical classification approaches, this automated brain activity classifier can classify EEG epochs into the accurate brain physiological state with performance characteristics that could have practical clinical utility. The classifier could be incorporated into clinical EEG monitoring system or, incorporated into a seizure warning system used to activate timed physiological or pharmacological interventions. 1 Lei Ding, 2 Gregory A. Worrell, 2 Terrence D. Lagerlund, and 1 Bin He ( 1 Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Minnesota ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic ) Rationale: Substantial interest exists in the development of noninvasive localization of epileptogenic foci, since the current standard utilization of subdural electrocorticography and depth electrodes requires surgical implantation with some additional risks to the patient. The aim of the present study is to evaluate a novel noninvasive source localization approach for localizing epileptogenic foci from scalp EEG. Methods: The traditional dipole source localization approach faces problems for multiple dipole source localization as the number of sources increases. We recently developed a new subspace source localization approach, i.e. three-dimensional first principle vectors (3D-FINE), for EEG-based epileptic focus localization (Xu et al, Phys Med  2 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; and 3 Neurology and Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Ten to twenty percent of children with facial port-wine stain (PWS) develop neurologic features characteristic of Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS), which may include seizures, visual field defects, hemiparesis, and cognitive impairment. Screening often involves serial neuroimaging, which carries a sedation risk and is often falsely negative in infants. We have reported that decreased power on the affected side correlated with neurologic impairments in subjects with SWS, and efforts are ongoing to develop quantitative EEG (qEEG) as a tool for early diagnosis in SWS. Methods: Three infants with unilateral facial port-wine stains had standard 16-channel EEG recordings at approximately 4 month intervals. Thirty artifact-free, two-second epochs were selected from each record. Bipolar data from each epoch was submitted to a fast Fourier transform with a frequency resolution of 0.5 Hz. Power spectra from each side of the head were compared using a laterality score (LS = (Left - Right)/(Left + Right). The LS were calculated for delta (2.0?3.5 Hz), theta (4.0?7.5 Hz), alpha (8.0?12.5 Hz), beta (13.0?32.0 Hz), and total power (2?32 Hz). All EEGs were independently read by an experienced electroencephalographer. Results: Subject #1 had a left-sided PWS and initially left-sided brain involvement with his first focal seizure at 8 months of age. EEGs at 11 and 15 months were read as symmetric, but quantitative EEG showed significantly lower power in the left hemisphere. MRI at this time showed left-sided leptomeningeal angiomatosis. MRI at 18 months showed bilateral occipital lesions. Further EEGs at 19 and 23 months yielded no statistically significant asymmetries in total power, possibly reflecting either his bilateral involvement or normal development and fully controlled seizures. Subject #2 had EEGs at 2, 6, and 10 months of age that were read as normal; however, qEEG showed significantly lower ipsilateral power at 2 and 10 months. MRI at 6 months showed unilateral leptomeningeal enhancement. This child has never seized and is developmentally normal. Subject #3 had a single EEG at 4 months that was read as normal; qEEG showed no significant asymmetry. MRI at six months showed no stigmata of SWS. This infant has had neither seizures nor any neurodevelopmental delay. Subjects #2 and #3 will continue to have EEGs every 3 months for a total of two years. Conclusions: In infants with a unilateral port-wine stain, serial qEEG shows decreases in power over the hemisphere that is affected or at-risk for neurological impairment. Further studies are needed to determine if qEEG is a reliable and sensitive method for identifying children with unilateral PWS who need neuroimaging and determining the optimal timing of imaging. 1 Michael D. Furman, 1 Jennifer D. Simonotto, 2 Paul R. Carney, and 1 William L. Ditto ( 1 Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 2 Department of Pediatric Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Currently, neural activity and focus localization in epileptic patients is essential for pre-surgical evaluation. Several methods have been devised to locate activity by applying combinations of EEG, MEG, PET, SPECT, and fMRI. Phase-Dynamic Quantification combines Recurrence Quantification Analysis, phase correlation, and three-dimensional temporal and spatial alignment to track seizure activity along with pre- and postictal responses. Utilizing high-frequency (12?25kHz) multi-channel brain activity, we introduce a method for correlating dynamic temporal phase which permits tracking of the seizure focus. Methods: Multichannel neuronal potentials were collected synchronously over the course of 2 mos from a chronically seizing animal model of limbic epilepsy (n = 1). Arrays of tungsten microwire electrodes were stereotaxically implanted in the dentate and CA1-2 of the hippocampus. Neuronal activity was recorded at 24414.1Hz. Electrode placement and CA1-2/Dentate targeting were verified post-mortem using a high-field (17.6 Tesla) MRI brain imaging instrument. Hippocampus depth and grid recording were also obtained in humans undergoing presurgical epilepsy evaluations (n = 2). Cortical activity was recorded continuously at 400Hz. All data sets were analyzed for phase correlation. Results: In all time series analyzed, the results demonstrated a well-defined seizure path within the epileptogenic focus. In each human data set, phase correlation coincided with the seizure focus that was determined by visual analysis of temporal lobe depth and grid recordings. Figure shows dynamic moving focus phase correlation using three 400 Hz signals. Conclusions: Phase-Dynamic Quantification reveals epilepsy as a highly organized contiguous neural pathway that can be localized and tracked. This method may of clinical utility assist with seizure localization. (Supported by Office of Naval Research Funding, National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, Children's Miracle Network.) 1 Georges A. Ghacibeh, 2 Deng-Shan Shiau, 2 Linda Dance, 1 Stephan Eisenschenk, and 1,2,3 J. Chris Sackellares ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; 2 Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Department of Biomedical Engeneering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Short-Term Maximum Lyapunov Exponent (STLmax) is a measure of the order of a dynamical system. Smaller STLmax values indicate that the signal is more ordered. In temporal lobe epilepsy, the dynamical properties of the preictal, ictal and postictal states are distinctly different and can be defined quantitatively. STLmax has been observed to be the lowest during a seizure, intermediate in the preictal period and highest in the postictal state. Antiepileptic medications are known to reduce seizure frequency in most epilepsy patients. We postulate that high levels of antiepileptic medications are associated with higher STLmax. The objectives of this study are to compare STLmax values from intracranial EEG recordings when patients have high, medium and low levels of antiepileptic medications. Methods: Two patients with intracranial subdural grids were recruited: patient 1 had right fronto-temporal and patient 2 had left fronto-central grids. Patients were tapered off their antiepileptic medications to record seizures. Patient 1 was on phenytoin, levetiracetam, carbamazepine and zonisamide and Patient 2 was levetiracetam and topiramate. Medication dosages were collected daily for all antiepileptic drugs during the entire monitoring period and medication levels were obtained for the older drugs. For each patient, three distinct time segments were determined based on their medication dosages and levels. Day 1: high medication levels, Day 2: medium levels and Day 3: low levels. All three segments were chosen to be at least 6 hours prior or after a seizure. For each patient, a total of 8 channels were selected for analysis. Four channels were within the epileptic focus and four outside the epileptic focus. For each analyzed electrode, STLmax was calculated for each non-overlapping 10.24 second segment (4096 EEG points in 400 Hz recording). A total of 100 mean STLmax values were randomly sampled from time intervals in each of the three medication levels. One-way ANOVA test was applied to test the significance of the effect among medication levels. If the effect was found significant, multiple comparison tests were utilized to test the significance of pairwise differences. Results: In both patients, within both epileptic and non-epileptic areas, EEG signals recorded during high medication level (day 1) exhibited significantly higher (p < 0.01) STLmax values (less ordered) than during medium (day 2) and low (day 3) medication levels. Conclusions: Antiepileptic medications have an influence on STLmax. High levels are associated with increased STLmax value. This effect may be related to the anticonvulsant properties of these medications. 1 Julie D. Golomb, 2 Michel Shamy, 2 April R. Levin, 2 Kathryn Davis, 2 Kelly A. McNally, 3 Kenneth Vives, 3 Dennis D. Spencer, 2,3 Susan S. Spencer, 2 Hitten Zaveri, and 1,2,3,4 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 2 Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; and 4 Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Prior studies suggest that temporal lobe seizures cause impaired function in widespread neocortical areas in addition to mesial temporal lobe regions. A recent study by Blumenfeld et al. (NEUROLOGY, 2004) found increased low voltage fast and polyspike ictal activity in ipsilateral mesial and lateral temporal regions, with simultaneous large amplitude ictal slowing in frontoparietal regions. However, these observations were based on subjective ratings of the intracranial EEG recordings and were not correlated with behavior. In the present study we employ quantitative analyses to more accurately describe ictal and post-ictal changes associated with various brain regions during complex and simple partial seizures. Methods: 12 Patients with surgically confirmed mesial temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent intracranial EEG monitoring and had no seizures during a follow-up period of at least 1 year after temporal lobe resection were selected for analysis. Seizures that secondarily generalized were excluded. Electrode contacts were assigned to one of nine cortical regions based on MRI surface reconstructions. Power measurements for classically defined spectral bands were calculated with the Fourier transform for the ictal and peri-ictal time periods for each EEG signal. Results: A small, brief increase in beta (13?25 Hz) and gamma (25?50 Hz) frequency power was seen in ipsilateral mesial temporal regions immediately following seizure onset. This was followed by a much larger increase in alpha (8?13 Hz), beta, gamma, and particularly theta (4?8 Hz) power in ipsilateral mesial and lateral temporal regions. Simultaneously, a large increase in delta (0?4 Hz) power was seen in lateral, medial, and orbital frontal regions, which sometimes persisted throughout the post-ictal period. Subclinical seizures involved transient changes confined to the ipsilateral mesial temporal contacts. Although considerable between-patient variability was found, individual patients showed remarkable consistency in EEG patterns across their seizures. Conclusions: Quantitative power analysis showed increased high frequency activity in temporal regions and low frequency activity in frontal regions during partial seizures of temporal lobe origin. These results support and expand upon previous studies of EEG activity positing that neocortical slowing represents a form of ?surround inhibition? during such seizures. Further analyses may reveal specific differences between EEG signals in complex and simple partial seizures, and contribute to an understanding of behavioral manifestations of temporal lobe seizures. 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to investigate whether Independent Component Analysis (ICA) can be applied in intracranial recordings to analyze interactions between the temporal lobes during temporal lobe seizures. ICA has already been used in scalp EEGs to isolate spikes from background and to help lateralize temporal lobe seizures Methods: Intracranial recordings of temporal lobe seizures from 8 patients with bitemporal implantation were analyzed. Scalp EEG recordings showed that the patients had seizures originating from both temporal lobes. The seizures of each patient were classified in four categories: unilateral right or left (UR or UL), and bilateral with right or left onset (BR or BL). ICA decomposes the EEG into as many statistically independent components as there are channels. ICA was applied to the seizures, and only components with ictal activity in the first 10 seconds of the seizure were studied. Correlation coefficients were calculated between these components and every channel of the original EEG, in the time interval preceding the appearance of bilateral activity. Components were classified as unilateral if their correlation was greater than 0.2 exclusively with channels in one hemisphere; if the correlation was greater than 0.2 with channels in both hemispheres, the component was labeled as bilateral. Nonparametric statistics were applied. Results: 46 seizures were analyzed (11 UR, 13 UL, 12 BR and 10 BL). There were five patients with seizures beginning independently in both temporal lobes, two patients with right temporal seizures only, and one patient with left temporal seizures only. Even though the correlation was calculated when seizure activity was unilateral, the proportion of components that were bilateral was significantly lower (p = 0.001) in seizures that stayed unilateral (22% for UR and 26% for UL) than in seizures that became bilateral (46% for BR and 48% for BL). There were no significant differences between right and left seizures. Bilateral seizures were significantly longer than unilateral seizures (p = 0.000), but the duration of the seizure was not significantly correlated (p > 0.05) with the proportion of bilateral components. Conclusions: In patients with bitemporal epilepsy, more than 20% of the components extracted using ICA have a bitemporal distribution even at the time when the seizures are apparently unilateral. The proportion of bilateral components during the unilateral phase is significantly higher in seizures with subsequent contralateral spread. It therefore appears that minimal contralteral seizure activity is present even when the discharge appears unilateral, and that the more such contralateral activity is present, the more the seizure is likely to spread. (Supported by CIHR Grant # MOP 38079 Postdoctoral research grant from the Department of Education of the Basque Government.) 1 C. Grova, 2 J. Daunizeau, 1 A. Bagshaw, 1 E. Kobayashi, 2 J.M. Lina, 1 F. Dubeau, and 1 J. Gotman ( 1 Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill U., Montreal, QC, Canada ; and 2 Centre de Recherche en Mathématiques, Montreal, Canada ) Rationale: The first objective is to compare two imaging modalities to better identify brain areas where spikes are generated: ? EEG source localization, which allows estimating a current density along the cortical surface at each time sample of the spike ? Simultaneous EEG/fMRI, which allows measuring the hemodynamic correlates of EEG activity Those modalities highlight several aspects of spike generation, because signals have different physiological origins and complementary spatial and temporal resolutions. Moreover, EEG source localization has no unique solution and adding prior information is necessary. The second objective is to evaluate whether it is relevant to include fMRI information in EEG source localization. Methods: 9 patients with focal epilepsy underwent EEG/fMRI examination and EEG recording outside the scanner. The EEG/fMRI protocol consists of recording 19 EEG channels inside the MR scanner. After manual detection of interictal spikes, data were analysed using a linear model combining several hemodynamic responses after each spike. T maps showing brain areas with significant fMRI responses were interpolated on the cortical surface, to compare with EEG source localization. Source localization was applied to averaged spikes recorded outside the scanner (43 channels). We applied the Maximum Entropy on the Mean (MEM) approach 1 to estimate the current density on the cortical surface at each time sample of the spike. fMRI results were compared with MEM results obtained at the peaks of the spike. The level of concordance was assessed by measuring the minimal geodesic distance D between local extrema of the fMRI and MEM maps. We also measured an index A to assess whether fMRI could be included as a prior for EEG source localization, using a hierarchical Bayesian model 2. Large positive values of A mean that fMRI data were highly relevant information regarding EEG data. Results: 3 patients did not show any fMRI response. Among the 6 other patients, MEM and fMRI results showed good concordance in 4 (D < 2.5 cm). However, qualitative analysis revealed that most exhibited concordant areas and areas unique to each modality. Our index A was in good agreement with the qualitative comparison of MEM and fMRI results. Conclusions: Our study highlights that EEG source localization and EEG/fMRI clearly explored different phenomena linked to spike generation. Brain areas involved could be concordant or complementary regarding both modalities. The index of relevance A seems promising to decide whether fMRI or a part of the fMRI map should be used as prior for source localization. By analysing more data, those approaches may provide a better understanding of the mechanisms involved during spike generation and propagation. REFERENCES 1.?Amblard C et al 2004 IEEE TBME, 51(3). 2.?Daunizeau J et al 2005 IEEE TSPS, in press (Supported by Canadian Institute of Health Research, Jeanne Timmins Costello Fellowship.) 1 Kurt E. Hecox, 1 Fengmei Lui, 1 Seaon Marler, 1 Jennifer Dwyer, 1 Michael Kohrman, 1 Arnetta McGhee, and 1 Joel Fontanarosa ( 1 Pediatrics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Dynamic Systems analysis has been applied to the study of interictal and ictal EEG data for more than a decade. Abnormalities in these measures have been reported in the detection, prediction and localization of seizures. The purpose of this study is to extend these observations to the pediatric population, to compare ictal data to three forms of baseline data and to describe some of the features of the spatial distribution of the systems changes, for multiple metrics. Methods: Intracranial and extracranial recordings were obtained from a series of pediatric aged patients undergoing evaluation for surgical treatment. Ages varied from 5 to 19 years of age. Three examples of seizures, interictal sleep, interictal awake and preictal (within one minute of seizure onset) were selected and analyzed for each patient. Metrics were calculated for correlation dimension (least squares), correlation dimension (maximum likelihood), Kolmogorov entropy, eigenvalues and Z (a global measure of nonlinearity) in each case. These metrics were calculated for at least eight surface electrodes (four over each hemisphere) and for at least 16 intracranial electrodes. The intracranial electrodes were further subdivided into ?involved? versus ?uninvolved? in the ictal event according to visual analysis. These data were subjected to analysis of variance and chi square analyses. Results: Eighty percent of the ictal events were detectable. Differences were seen between sleep and wakefulness baselines for 70% of the the group. Preictal changes were seen for 40% of the group, compared to baseline. Seemingly uninvolved electrodes show changes in these metrics both ictally and interictally. The magnitude of the change and the metris showing the changes varied across patients but eigenvalue was most commonly changed amongst the measures. Eigenvalue and correlation dimension (least squares) were the least specific spatially, while Kolmogorov entropy and Z were the most spatially specific. Conclusions: We continue to observe ictal changes in dynamic systems measures in pediatric aged patients with seizures. The measures are also abnormal in a number of patients interictally. No single metric is complete enough to stand alone, from a detection or anticipation perspective. Anticipation was possible in nearly half of the cases. The most surprising findings of this study were that electrodes felt to be ?control? or uninvolved in the seizures can show significant changes in these metrics and that the metrics vary considerably in their spatial specificity. Localizing a focus using these metrics must be performed with considerable caution. Further, the differences in spatial distribution across metrics suggest that these metrics do not all reflect the operation of a single process. (Supported by Falk Medical Trust Foundation.) 1 Christophe C. Jouny, 1 Piotr J. Franaszczuk, and 1 Gregory K. Bergey ( 1 Department of Neurology - Epilepsy Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Partial seizures originate from focal regions of epileptogenesis. The dynamic of seizure onset and pattern of ictal discharges may reflect the cerebral region of seizure onset. To date, however, these observations have been largely derived from visual analysis or simple frequency characterization. We here report detailed comparative analysis of seizure dynamics at seizure onset. Methods: We analyzed data from multiple partial seizures from patients with mesial temporal onset epilepsy (MTLE; n = 3) or with neocortical lesional epilepsy (NLE; n = 6) monitored in the epilepsy monitoring unit for presurgical evaluation with intracranial subdural grid arrays. The time-frequency decomposition was obtained with the matching pursuit (MP) method. The Gabor atom density (GAD) (Jouny et al. 2003), derived from MP, provides a measure of signal complexity. Different features of the intracranial EEG (ICEEG) or of GAD can be used to synchronize seizures. Onset of complexity increase was used to synchronize the events. Time-frequency maps reconstructed from the MP decomposition were then re-aligned and averaged. Results: GAD plots reveal that all mesial temporal onset seizures and neocortical onset seizures have an increase in complexity at seizure onset and have a reproducible pattern of onset. These consistent features can be used to synchronize the events. Because of the slight variability in timing between different phases of the seizure, one can enhance the visibility of any of these phases by choosing their feature as the synchronizing event for the re-alignment. Onset features which are not time-locked will not be enhanced by averaging. In this study, averaged seizure onsets exhibit distinguishable predominant frequency components in 5 out of 9 patients (either ?7Hz, ?15Hz, ?20Hz or ?40Hz) or activities with a broader spectral signature in 3 out of 9 patients. Conclusions: The assumption that multiple seizure onsets in a given patient have stereotypical features is based predominantly on clinical experience and visual analysis. We studied here the detailed time-frequency components of partial seizures and, by averaging their reconstructed maps, isolated the components that are common to all seizures. One of the advantage of the method was to reveal an onset pattern including high-frequency components (>40Hz) with a decreasing main frequency which was not evident on ICEEG. High-frequency components during onset might go unnoticed - especially when embedded in electrodecrement pattern of onset. High-frequency recordings and detailed time-frequency analysis can reveal the dynamic evolution of onsets and provide important information regarding timing of onset pattern and localization. (Supported by NIH grant NS 33732.) 1 Anna Korzeniewska, 2 Rafal Kus, 1 Piotr Franaszczuk, 3 Ciprian Crainiceanu, and 1 Nathan E. Crone ( 1 Department of Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD ; 2 Laboratory of Medical Physics, Warsaw University, Warsaw, Poland ; and 3 Department of Biostatistics, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: The cortical regions responsible for word production have been mapped with a variety of techniques, but the dynamic interactions between these cortical regions in real time have yet to be explored in depth. To investigate these interactions we recorded electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals while subjects spoke words in response to either visual or auditory stimuli, and we studied event-related gamma activity flows among different cortical regions. Methods: The short-time direct directed transfer function (SdDTF) is a new method for estimating causal interactions between different brain regions. SdDTF evaluates the direction and intensity of EEG activity flows during consecutive short-time epochs, for selected frequency bands. This multichannel approach enables comparisons of the strengths of relations between sites. ECoG signals recorded during two tasks, word repetition (auditory stimulus) and picture naming (visual stimulus), were analyzed. Event-related changes in cortical network interactions were studied with emphasis on 60?140 Hz (high gamma). Results: Auditory word stimuli were associated with activity flows mainly between sites within superior temporal gyrus (STG) and from STG to inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and to ventral sensorimotor cortex (vSMC); interactions between STG and basal temporal language area (BTLA) were also observed. In the interval between offset of the auditory word stimulus and onset of the verbal response, flows were observed predominantly from STG to IFG and BTLA. Flows between IFG, STG, and vSMC were also present. During picture naming the interval between onset of the stimulus and the verbal response was associated with many bidirectional interactions between IFG and STG, and between IFG, BTLA and vSMC. Spoken responses to both visual and auditory stimuli were associated with relatively fewer interactions, albeit involving all aforementioned sites. Conclusions: Cortical network interactions during word production predictably depend on stimulus modality. These interactions are reflected by changes in high-gamma activity flows between and within cortical regions commonly involved in language processing. (Supported by NINDS R01-NS41598.) 1 Lorant Kovacs, 2 Nandor Ludvig, 2 Orrin Devinsky, and 2 Ruben I. Kuzniecky ( 1 Software Division, ESCO, Garden Grove, CA ; and 2 Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The objective was to develop a program (?SeizureGuard?) that is ideal for recognizing/predicting EEG seizures, real-time, within the limited power resources of future, fully implanted therapeutic devices, like the hybrid neuroprosthesis. Methods: Instead of handling the EEG signals as a succession of waves, the SeizureGuard program decomposed these signals into vectors, describing each vector with its angle and magnitude. From the derived vector-stream, the program computed various neurobiologically relevant parameters, including inter-vector interval and vector-periodicity. These parameters were indexed according to their relevance to the characteristics of electrographic seizure-onsets. No complex numbers were used in the calculations. To validate the algorithm, a data miner utility program was utilized to extract continuous EEG signals from files generated with a Nicolet BMSI 6000 recording system. All recordings were obtained from temporal lobe epilepsy patients presurgically implanted with subdural strip- and grid-electrodes. Results: The program accurately recognized subclinical EEG seizures within 1?2 sec from their onset. Artifacts and non-epileptic rhythmic discharges and large-amplitude waves were not falsely indicated. Interestingly, the occasional false-positive seizure detections by the program in the interictal phase actually indicated bursts of sharp waves/spikes that occurred in the recording channel(s) of seizure activity. Conclusions: The SeizureGuard program, utilizing a computationally inexpensive algorithm that decomposes the EEG waves into vectors, is suitable for recognizing the onsets of focal subclinical seizures and has the potential to indicate epileptiform events prior to these seizures. As such, it seems to be ideal for use in implanted seizure-controlling devices. (Supported by NYU/FACES.) 1 Yuan Lai, 2 Wim Van Drongelen, 2 David M. Frim, 2 Kurt E. Hecox, and 1 Bin He ( 1 Biomedical Engineering, University of Minnesota ; and 2 Pediatrics, University of Chicago ) Rationale: In past decades, epilepsy surgery has been recognized increasingly as a viable treatment for patients with medically refractory seizures. However, the large gap between number of potential surgical candidates and number of patients being treated with surgery still exists due to the lengthy, complex, and expensive procedure of current practice of using invasive procedures to identify epileptic foci responsible for the seizures. If epileptic foci can be identified noninvasively, numerous epilepsy patients undergoing surgical treatment will benefit significantly from the noninvasive surgical planning. The aim of present study is to evaluate a novel noninvasive electrophysiological cortical imaging technique (He et al., IEEE-TBME, 46:1264?1268, 1999) to image and localize ictal activities from scalp EEG. Methods: All patients are pediatric patients with intractable partial epilepsy in the Pediatric Epilepsy Center at the University of Chicago. For each patient, multiple habitual seizures were visually identified according to the IFSECN criteria. Seizure activities with sudden propagation to whole brain were excluded from further analysis. For ictal EEG recordings with sustained rhythmic focal morphology, time-frequency analysis has been applied as preprocessing. Spatial-temporal evolution of ictal discharges were examined using wavelet analysis to obtain a time-varying energy distribution in each frequency band. The dominant frequency is determined with highest energy concentration, at which the phase encoding is used for multi-channel EEG around seizure onset to generate a scalp potential map representing the major ictal activity. The cortical imaging algorithm (He et al., 1999) was then applied to reconstruct the cortical potential distribution from the phase encoded scalp potential map. Since pediatric patients usually have seizure originating from neocortex, the estimated cortical potential generated by different underlying sources are less likely to overlap so that it can be used to observe the source activity with much less deviation as compared to that from a deeper source. Results: Five pediatric epilepsy patients by various causes were studied, who are either seizure free or having substantial seizure reduction after neurosurgical resections. For all patients, the cortical imaging analysis has been able to successfully reveal underlying epileptogenic cortical zones at different lobes (temporal or extra-temporal, one or two epileptogenic foci for each patient), which are consistent with clinical findings and confirmed by neurosurgical resections and outcomes. Conclusions: Cortical imaging can reliably localize cortical activity in regions displaying epileptiform activity; these regions were confirmed by successful surgical resection. Cortical imaging may become a useful alternative for noninvasive pre-surgical and surgical planning in pediatric epilepsy patients. (Supported by NIH EB 00178 and NSF BES-0411898.) 1 Pierre LeVan, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: The objective of this study was to devise an automated system to remove artefacts from ictal scalp EEG, using independent component analysis (ICA). Current ICA methods rely on a tedious visual identification of artefactual sources among extracted components, hence the desire for a fully automated method. Methods: 69 ictal scalp recordings from 16 epileptic patients were analyzed. The seizures were contaminated by various artefacts such as eye movements, EMG, and patient movement. For each seizure, ICA was applied to a 30s interval beginning approximately 10s before the suspected seizure onset. The extracted independent components were divided into 2s epochs and each epoch was labelled as either EEG or non-EEG. Data from half of the patients was used as a training set to induce a Bayesian network classifier, while the remaining data was reserved for use as a validation set. The classifier used the following features: component negentropy, epoch variance, spectral entropy between 5 and 30Hz, and relative power in several frequency bands. The spatial distribution of each component was then fitted with a dipole, the position of which was also used as a feature whenever the residual variance of the fit was less than 20%. For each 2s epoch, the output of the classifier was the probability that the epoch represented EEG activity. A component was considered to be artefactual if the sum of the probabilities for its 15 epochs was less than 4. To evaluate the performance of the system, an expert neurologist reviewed the original seizure recordings in the validation set and compared them with the records reconstructed after rejection of the artefactual components. A qualitative score was given with respect to the reduction of artefactual activity and the preservation of EEG activity. Results: The validation set contained 33 seizures from 8 patients. The system correctly classified 5047/5920 (85%) EEG epochs and 5628/6950 (81%) non-EEG epochs. The reviewer noted that 23 seizures were contaminated by a significant amount of artefacts. After the automated rejection of artefactual components, the reviewer determined that the majority of artefacts were removed in 17 seizures, while 5 of them had minor improvements, and only 1 record had no reduction of artefactual activity. The system preserved all the EEG activity in 17 seizures, attenuated some minor EEG activity in 4 cases, and removed some significant ictal activity in the remaining 2 cases. The automated method was also applied to the 10 seizures that did not contain significant artefacts; in 9 cases, all the EEG activity was preserved, while the remaining case had only minor EEG attenuation. Conclusions: Temporal and spatial features of ICA components were used in a Bayesian framework to classify component epochs as either EEG or non-EEG. This allowed the proposed system to automatically eliminate a large proportion of artefactual components in ictal scalp recordings, while minimally affecting the EEG activity. (Supported by NSERC CGS-M, CIHR MOP-10189.) 1 John W. Miller, 1 Wonsuk Kim, 1 Mark Holmes, and 2 Sampsa Vanhatalo ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Clinical Neurophysiology, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland ) Rationale: We recently described techniques to perform longterm DC-coupled EEG recordings at the bedside, and have used these methods to demonstrate that inspection of infraslow (<0.5 Hz) activity can correctly lateralize temporal lobe seizures (Vanhatalo et al, Neurology.60:1098, 2003). However, even high amplitude infraslow activity can sometimes be difficult to localize by simple visual inspection if there is considerable overlying faster EEG activity or obscuring slow artifact. Also, this earlier study did not investigate extratemporal seizures, which are often more difficult to localize. We address these issues with improvements in the DC-coupled EEG recording and analysis technique, and by extending our observation to seizures arising from a variety of cerebral regions. Methods: Recordings were performed on patients receiving presurgical monitoring for medically intractable localization related epilepsy with 20 seizures in 11 patients included in analysis. Recordings used a commercial system for DC-coupled recording, with sintered Ag/AgCl electrodes in a standard array defined by the 10:10 system, with additional anterior temporal electrodes, as well as subtemporal chains. Afterwards, ictal events were exported to an EEG analysis software package (BESA 5.0) to review the seizures with source montages. Recognition and localization of the infraslow signal was made easier (i) by compressing the time scale (30 to 90 seconds per screen), ii) by filtering the signal in time domain (i.e. regular high pass/low pass or band pass filtering), iii) by filtering the signal in space (e.g. with a source montage), and iv) by using a moving average to smooth the recording. The spatial filtering properties of the source montage also makes it easier to differentiate the ictal change from physiological artifacts, such as eye movements, that arise from other head regions. In addition, the time frequency characteristics of some seizures were analysed by FFT and by use of Morlet wavelets. Results: Infraslow signals were present with all focal seizures, sometimes with amplitude orders of magnitude higher than the ictal signals in the convention EEG frequency band (0.5 to 70 Hz). Analysis of these infraslow signals was a reliable localization tool. Five patients in this study received epilepsy surgery and had follow-up documenting significant seizure reduction, and analysis of infraslow signals correctly localized epileptic foci in all five, while conventional noninvasive EEG recording with visual analysis of seizures correctly localized only two. Conclusions: DC-coupled EEG recordings can give additional information that is clinically useful to noninvasively localize the epileptogenic focus. The value of this method is increased by source analysis tools that can reveal highly localized changes more clearly than direct visual inspection. (Supported by The UW Regional Epilepsy Center.) 1 Victoria L. Morgan, 2 Eliane Kobayashi, 2 Andrew Bagshaw, 2 Colin Hawco, 3 Bassel Abou-Khalil, 2 Francois Dubeau, and 2 Jean Gotman ( 1 Radiology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ; 2 Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, Canada ; and 3 Neurology, Vanderbilt Unversity, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Simultaneous fMRI and EEG may localize the generators of interictal spikes recorded on scalp EEG. Temporal clustering analysis (TCA) is a method to analyze fMRI images independently of EEG information. TCA seeks to identify resting state activations related to the epileptogenic zone. The objective of this study was to compare the results of these two analyses in a series of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Methods: BOLD fMRI images were acquired in 22 TLE patients on a 1.5T MRI scanner with simultaneous continuous EEG in two-hour sessions at the MNI (64 ?64 ?25, 5mm ? 5mm ? 5mm, TR = 3sec, 120 volumes per series, 8?10 series per patient). For EEG-BOLD analysis, EEGs were processed offline and spikes were identified in the filtered EEG for event-related analysis. For the TCA-BOLD analysis, only the first three series were used. Data were analyzed by previously published TCA methods in which a histogram is created indicating the number of voxels that reach at least 80% of their maximum at each time point. Activated regions were determined by using a fixed-effects analysis of the three series. The concordance of the temporal lobe activation identified by the two methods and the temporal lobe spikes were assessed. Patients were divided into those with unilateral and those with bilateral independent temporal lobe spikes on EEG. One patient's fMRI was not analyzed due to excess motion. Results: Fourteen patients had unilateral spikes on EEG: 12/14 had TCA-BOLD temporal activation (6 were ipsilateral to the EEG spikes, and 2 had bilateral activation with predominance ipsilateral to the spikes) and 9/14 showed EEG-BOLD activation (2 were ipsilateral to the EEG spikes, 5 had bilateral activation with predominance ipsilateral to the spikes, one had bilateral activation with no side predominance). Seven patients had bilateral independent temporal spikes on EEG: all patients showed TCA-BOLD activation in the temporal lobes, but it was bilateral (concordant with the EEG) in 3; 4/7 patients showed EEG-BOLD temporal lobe activation, bilateral in 3. Overall, we observed an agreement between both methods in 7/11 patients. Conclusions: Activations in the temporal lobes were detected in 90% of patients using TCA-BOLD and in 68% using EEG-BOLD. TCA, which has the advantage of not using the information from the EEG, was concordant with EEG-BOLD analysis in 64% of those who showed activations, and disclosed responses not present in the former one in 5. TCA-BOLD could lateralize the underlying structural MRI lesion in 52% of the patients, similar to that observed with EEG-BOLD analysis (48%). More development is required for both methods. (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Preston Robb MNI fellowship, and Savoy Foundation for Epilepsy.) 1 Amit Mukherjee, 2 Pradeep Modur, and 1 Nicolaos Karayiannis ( 1 Electrical  and 2 Neurology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: We describe a novel method for detection of seizure onset using a quantum neural network (QNN) that was progressively trained by quantitative features (in both the time and frequency domains) extracted from intracranial EEG (iEEG) signals. QNNs are particularly helpful in the classification of uncertain data without any restricting assumptions. [Purushothaman and Karayiannis, IEEE Trans Neural Networks 1997; 8:679?693]. Methods: Raw iEEG data (subdural and depth recordings) from 4 subjects, sampled at 1000 Hz, were analyzed. Bandpass was set from 1.6 to 300 Hz. Seizure onset was marked at the time of earliest change in EEG. The EEG segment, 10 sec before and after seizure onset, was divided into onset epochs (OE), each of 2 sec length, with 50% overlap between consecutive epochs. Background epoch (BE) was defined as the average of 30-sec EEG during the interictal period, preceding the OE by at least 2 min. The signal was decomposed using a Daub-2 wavelet and scales 2 to 6 (corresponding to frequency bins 250?125, 125?63, 63?32, 32?16, 16?8 and 8?4 Hz respectively) were used for feature analysis. Two parameters were computed for each scale: relative energy (ratio of the energy in a given scale in the OE to the energy of the same scale in the BE); average of the distribution tail (ratio of the average of the top 80th percentile squared coefficient to the average of the squared coefficient for a given scale). In addition to this average peak-to-peak amplitude and curve length (measure relating to the fractal dimension) of the OE are also computed and used as features. QNN was initially trained using seizure onset patterns from multiple subjects. With each subsequent seizure, the QNN was progressively re-trained by populating the training with 50% of the epochs belonging to the last seizure, 25% belonging to the previous to last seizure and 25% from a bank containing a variety of patterns from multiple subjects. Decision-making was based on the inherent ability of the QNN to identify and quantify uncertainty, represented by its output values between 0 (non-seizure) and 1 (seizure), in conjuction with a spatio-temporal rule. Thus, seizure onset was reported when the activity was observed in at least 2 adjacent channels and the activity was sustained for at least 6 sec (with QNN output value >0.65). If a channel had reported seizure in the past, its membership threshold was reduced to 0.4 and the spatio-temporal rule was applied. The QNN classifier was tested on 8 seizures from 2 subjects (each with 4 seizures). Results: All the seizure onsets (100%) were detected using the above method. There were only a few false detections. Conclusions: Progressively trained QNNs appear to be promising in detection of intracranial seizure onset. Further investigation will focus on detection of a wider variety of seizure onset patterns in multiple subjects and different decision-making strategies. 1 Ayako Ochi, 1 Hiroshi Otsubo, 1 Ryoichi Iwata, 1 Takanori Funaki, 1 Tomoyuki Akiyama, 1 Rohit Sharma, 1 Shelly K. Weiss, 1 Elizabeth Donner, 1 Irene Elliott, 2 James T. Rutka, and 1 O. Carter Snead III ( 1 Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ; and 2 Neurosurgery, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada ) Rationale: High frequency oscillations (HFOs) in the frequency range of 80 Hz and higher has been investigated from ictal subdural EEG data in patients with intractable localization-related epilepsy. Multiple band frequency analysis (MBFA) provides high resolution of frequency changes and time courses in HFOs. We studied ictal HFOs from extraoperative video subdural EEG monitoring (SDEEG) using MBFA to characterize patterns of HFOs in children with intractable neocortical epilepsy. Methods: We retrospectively studied 8 children (3 girls and 5 boys; mean age, 14 years; range, 8 to 17 years) who presented with intractable neocortical epilepsy and underwent SDEEG consisting of 48 to 116 contacts (AD-TECH Medical instrument corporation, Racine, WI, USA). We recorded SDEEG for 48 to 144 hours with 1,000 Hz sampling rate (HARMONY 5.4, Stellate, Montreal, PQ, Canada). We analyzed 4 to 11 seizures by selecting SDEEG data epochs of 10 to 50 seconds including 5 seconds before the ictal EEG onset. We used MBFA using the software program Short Spectrum Eye (Gram, Saitama, Japan) for frequency and distribution analyses of HFOs. The power spectrograms of frequency bands between 5 Hz to 300 Hz were calculated with a frequency resolution of 2 Hz and a temporal resolution of 25 ms. We arranged all power spectrograms in the same order as subdural grid electrodes and evaluated the distribution of HFOs. Results: Seven of 8 patients presented with regionally predominant ictal HFO changes (mean, 23 electrodes). We found two patterns of HFOs consisting of existence or absence of sustained narrow band of HFOs. Four of 7 patients had initial wide range of HFOs (up to 115 Hz) lasting 2 to 5 seconds before the clinical seizure onset, followed by a sustained narrow band of HFOs (mean, 101 Hz) during ictal symptom of partial seizures. The seizures in these 4 patients evolved into secondary generalization. The other three patients had wide range of HFOs (up to 214 Hz) before and after the clinical onset without following sustained narrow band of HFOs. They presented with brief partial seizures in cluster in one patient, epileptic spasms in 2, but they did not evolved into secondarily generalized seizures. The cortical resection areas in 7 patients included the region of predominant HFOs (mean maximum frequency, 138 Hz). They achieved good postsurgical outcomes. The remaining one patient had no regionally predominant ictal HFO changes. This patient has residual partial seizures after frontal cortical excision. Conclusions: MBFA characterized 2 patterns of ictal HFO changes between seizures with and without secondarily generalized in pediatric neocortical epilepsy. The regionally predominant ictal HFOs represented the ictal onset and ictal symptomatogenic zones. 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Florian Mormann, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Dept. of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: Patients suffering from intractable focal epilepsy may benefit from neurosurgical resection of the epileptic focus provided it can be identified via electroencephalographic recording of the seizure onset. A question of interest is whether the focus can be reliably identified from interictal recordings, i.e. without the necessity of observing seizures. Measurements of the synchronization between different EEG channels have been found to be promising for this purpose. Up to now, a number of measures for synchronization have been proposed based on different approaches. In this study a comparison between different linear and nonlinear synchronization measures was performed with respect to two aspects: 1. general performance of the measures in terms of their ability to discriminate the ipsi- from the contralateral hemisphere, 2. comparison of different measures to investigate whether the different approaches render complementary or redundant information. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, each equipped with 10 recording contacts and implanted stereotactically along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampal formation. The total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Several measures of synchronization were calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique, and then averaged over time. For each of the measures the average spatial synchronization in each hemisphere was calculated. A detection of the focal hemisphere was carried out for all measures and patients based on the assumption of a higher average synchronization in the focal hemisphere. True and false lateralizations were compared for different measures. Results: Correct lateralization based on higher synchronization of the focal hemisphere was found to be statistically significant for all measures investigated, although actual performance differed among the investigated measures. False lateralizations for different measures ranged between 6 and 8 out of 30. A comparison of correct and false lateralizations showed a strong similarities between measures. Conclusions: The focal hemisphere in an epileptic brain is characterized by a pathological increase in synchronization. The different measures investigated in this study appear to be sensitive to this increased synchronization. Lateralization analysis using synchronization measures could render additional diagnostic information, although the false lateralizations found in this study could limit its clinical applicability. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1 Houman Khosravani, 2 Robert Pinnegar, 2 Ross Mitchell, and 1 Paolo Federico ( 1 Department of Radiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Univeristy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Visualization of time-frequency changes in EEG has traditionally been visualized using Fourier-based techniques (i.e. Short Time Fourier Transform, STFT). This approach is limited given its fixed-length analysis window and the non-stationary nature of EEG signals. The S Transform is a Fourier-based multi-resolution transform that has a variable length analysis window, thus circumventing the shortcomings of the STFT. In the present study, we introduce a novel application of the S Transform for visualization of normal and epileptiform EEG phenomena in humans. Methods: Selected recordings from five normal subjects and five patients with either focal or generalized epileptiform discharges were used. We identified a single channel that had a clear example of an electrographic feature of interest (e.g. alpha, mu, sleep spindles, eye blink, spike and wave, sharp wave) and applied the S Transform to it. Results: The S Transform provided clear visualization of the frequency components, in time, of the electrographic events. Some of the spectral attributes of these events were not immediately apparent on conventional review of the EEG. Conclusions: The application of the S Transform to EEG is novel and can potentially be a useful tool for visualizing clinically relevant features in EEG. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research.) 1 Catherine Schevon, 2 Joshua Cappell, 3 Werner Doyle, 3 Howard Weiner, 2 Robert Goodman, 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, and 2 Ronald Emerson ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ; 2 Neurological Institute, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY ) Rationale: The presence of localized synchronization of neuronal activity in epilepsy has been well documented in microelectrode and clinical intracranial EEG (ICEEG) recordings. An intriguing hypothesis about the development of epilepsy is that a cortical region, when potentiated by repeated seizures, becomes chronically biased, leading to hypersynchrony. Thus, brain regions most involved in epileptogenesis are marked by chronic local hypersynchrony (LH). In this study, we discuss and illustrate the use of the mean phase synchrony measure to detect and map patterns of locally hypersynchronous neuronal activity in long term ICEEG recordings obtained during the epilepsy presurgical evaluation. Methods: Seven patients with different epilepsy syndromes were studied. Three 5 minute interictal samples from different monitoring days were tested in each case. Two seizures from each patient were studied, with 30 second samples taken from the preictal, ictal, and postictal periods. Interelectrode synchrony was measured using the mean phase coherence algorithm, which calculates the degree of phase locking independent of amplitude. Pairwise synchrony over one-second epochs was calculated for all adjacent channels of a subdural grid located over or near the clinically determined seizure onset zone. LH regions were defined as a set of contiguous channel pairs with average synchrony greater than one standard deviation above the mean for the entire grid. Results: Chronic LH regions were found in all seven patients, with these characteristics: (1) LH persisted over long recording periods and was state-independent. (2) Each patient had a unique pattern of LH regions with different anatomical distributions. (3) In each case, an LH area was associated with the clinically identified the seizure onset zone. (4) In peri-ictal recordings, there was a relative focal desynchronization preictally, a prominent finding in two patients but present to some degree in all seven, and enhanced hypersynchrony postictally. Conclusions: These findings suggest that local hypersynchrony in the EEG is related to abnormalities that underly partial epilepsy. This identification may prove useful in several areas. First, clinical EEG interpretation may be enhanced by using synchrony measurements to help define epileptogenic networks. Second, the described properties may be investigated to shed light on epileptogenic mechanisms. Third, knowledge of network structure and function may lead to improved techniques for disrupting the network to prevent seizures through resection, on-site neurostimulation, or local drug delivery. Fourth, these observations may lead to improved techniques for automated seizure prediction and detection. FACES 1,7 Deng-Shan Shiau, 2,7 Chang-Chia Liu, 2,7 Wichai Suharitdamrong, 2 Panos M. Pardalos, 1,3?5 Paul R. Carney, and 1,3?7 J. Chris Sackellares ( 1 Neuroscience, University of Florida ; 2 Industrial and Systems Engineering ; 3 Pediatrics ; 4 Biomedical Engineering ; 5 Neurology ; 6 Psychiatry, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 7 Malcolm Randall VA Medical Center, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Rapid identification of patients with independent bitemporal seizure onset zones could greatly reduce presurgical evaluation costs. We describe a novel method to identify patients with independent bilateral seizure foci based on a nonlinear characteristic of EEG signals. Signal nonlinear characteristic is quantified by the statistical difference of Short-Term Maximum Lyapunov Exponent (STLmax) values estimated from the original EEG signals and its surrogate dataset. Methods: Eight adults with temporal lobe epilepsy (5 with unilateral temporal onsets and 3 with independent bilateral onsets) were included in this study. Long-term EEG recordings from bilaterally placed depth and subdural electrodes (left and right temporal depth, subtemporal and orbitofrontal) were analyzed. Initial analyses involved the following steps: (1) each EEG signal was divided into 10.24 sec epochs and 10 surrogate EEG time series were generated, (2) STLmax values were estimated for each epoch of the original EEG signal and each of the 10 surrogate EEG signals, (3) T-index, derived from pair-T statistics, was calculated to measure the statistical difference in STLmax values between the original signal and mean values estimated from the 10 surrogate EEGs. Nested two-way ANOVA was applied to test the significance of the brain region effect (patients were random blocks; seizures were nested within patient). Significance level = 0.05 was applied for rejection of the null hypothesis. Results: For each of the five patients with unilateral seizure onset, statistical test revealed that the nonlinear characteristics of EEG signals derived from mesial temporal electrodes within the seizure onset zone are significantly different from those from other areas (p < 0.01). In contrast, the nonlinear characteristics of EEG are not different (p > 0.05) among recording areas in all three patients who experienced bilateral seizure onsets. These differences were present throughout the recording, even before the first seizure was recorded. Conclusions: The results of this study suggest that it may be possible to efficiently and quantitatively determine whether a patient is likely to have unilateral temporal or independent bitemporal seizure onsets, based on analysis of the nonlinear characteristics of the EEG signal. In these patients, the findings were robust and persistent. Further studies in a large sample of patients will be required to determine whether or not this approach will have utility in selecting candidates for resective surgery. (Supported by NIH Grant RO1EB002089 and Department of Veterans Affairs.) 1 Steven Schachter, 2 Ali Shoeb, 3 Blaise Bourgeois, 4 S. Ted Treves, and 2 John Guttag ( 1 Departments of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA ; 2 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, MA ; 3 Departments of Neurology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA ; and 4 Nuclear Medicine, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA ) Rationale: The accurate detection of electrographic seizure onsets with an ambulatory system could potentially be used to trigger an acute intervention to limit seizure progression/duration, and could also serve to notify a caregiver or disable harmful elements in the patient's environment (eg, a gas stove that is lit). Methods: We implemented a patient-specific seizure detection algorithm (Shoeb A, et al. Epilepsy Behav 2004; 5:483?498) on a small digital signal processor (DSP; TM320C6711, Texas Instruments), and streamed previously recorded ambulatory EEGs from two patients to the DSP at a rate of 200 samples/sec per channel. For each EEG, we noted the sensitivity and specificity of seizure detections, and the latency with which the algorithm declared seizure onset following the initial electroencephalographic changes. Results: The algorithm trained on seizure-free EEG epochs and 7 electrographic seizures uniformly sampled over the duration of the two EEG studies. The figure shows the average latency for detection of seizure onsets once the electroencephalographic changes began. The algorithm detected 70/72 seizure onsets (30/31 for patient #1, and 41/42 for patient #2), and declared 2 false detections (0 for patient #1, and 2 for patient #2) in 5.5 hours (2 hours for patient #1, 3.5 hours for patient #2) of ambulatory EEG epochs uniformly sampled over a 36-hour period (20 hours for patient #1, and 16 hours for patient #2). The figure also compares how soon following electrographic seizure onset patient #1 became symptomatic (indicated by pressing the event button). Patient #2 was unaware of his seizures and therefore did not press the event button. Conclusions: These preliminary results demonstrate the high sensitivity and specificity of seizure onset detections using our algorithm and the feasibility of detecting seizures in the ambulatory setting within seconds of electrographic seizure onset and before symptoms occur. Further evaluation of our detection methodology on pre-recorded as well as on-line ambulatory EEG studies is underway. (Supported by Center for Integration of Medicine and Innovative Technology (CIMIT); MIT Project Oxygen Partnership.) 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Pierre LeVan, 1 François Dubeau, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 EEG, Montreal Neurological Institute,McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: High frequency activity in the intracerebral EEG of epileptic patients has been described in recent studies using microelectrodes. We report changes in high frequency activity immediately following epileptic spikes in intracerebral recordings obtained from macroelectrodes. Methods: Eight patients with intractable epilepsy were evaluated; 4 had mesial temporal epilepsy (MT) and 4 neocortical epilepsy (N). EEGs from stereotaxically placed depth electrodes were filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz. Spikes were classified according to their localization and morphology, with 60 spikes in each type. Segments of 256ms were selected immediately following each spike (post-spike), and 2s before each spike (baseline). Log-spectral power was estimated in 4 frequency bands: slow (0?40Hz), gamma (40?100Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), and very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz). Changes between post-spike periods and baselines were assessed for each channel (Wilcoxon test, p < 0.01). Results: 25 types of spike were identified (16 MT, 9 N). Changes were seen in 14 types of spike in HF (10 MT, 4 N) and in 11 types in VHF (8 MT, 3 N). Changes in VHF were always associated with changes in HF. In 9 types of spike (7 MT, 2 N), there was an increase in slow activity corresponding to a visible slow wave, but also a decrease in fast activity. These changes occurred in the hippocampus and neocortex. In 6 types of spike (5 MT, 1 N), there was an increase in slow activity despite the absence of a visible slow wave and an increase in fast activity. These changes occurred mostly in the amygdala, even though the spike was minimal in that area. The same pattern was observed in the hippocampus in two types of spikes in one patient. Finally, there was one type of spike with a decrease in fast activity without changes in slow activity. Overall, changes in VHF activity were spatially more restricted than changes in HF and gamma bands. Conclusions: A significant proportion of spikes were followed by changes in high frequency activity, more often in mesial temporal than neocortical spikes. Slow waves following spikes were generally associated with a decrease in HF and VHF compared to baseline. Changes in high frequency were clearest in channels where the spikes were most prominent, while changes at lower frequencies were more widespread. In many instances, there was an increase in high frequencies in the amygdala, even though the spike was not prominent in this region. This study demonstrates that high frequency activity can be recorded with macroelectrodes and has significant changes in epileptic discharges. The reduction in HF and VHF following spikes may reflect a profound inhibition that is more marked in the region of spike generation. The amygdala behaves differently from the hippocampus and neocortex, not showing this reduction in fast activity. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research Department of Education of Basque Government.) 1 Anneleen Vergult, 1 Wim De Clercq, 1 Bart Vanrumste, 1 Sabine Van Huffel, 2 Johan Van Hees, 2 André Palmini, and 2 Wim Van Paesschen ( 1 Electrical Engineering, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ; and 2 Neurology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ) Rationale: The aim of this study was to develop and investigate the performance of automated muscle artifact removal from ictal electroencephalograms (EEG) based on canonical correlation analysis (CCA). Methods: CCA separated a 10s EEG epoch in a set of components (or sources) with a decreasing autocorrelation index (AI). It has been noticed that muscle artifact components have a lower AI than genuine EEG components. A neurologist removed muscle artifact from 317 epochs of ictal EEG of 40 patients by gradually removing the components starting from the one with the lowest AI. The neurologist determined subjectively the separation point where as much muscle activity was removed as possible, without affecting the brain activity significantly. This yielded a gold standard binary classification of the CCA components into muscle artifact components and EEG components. Next a fully automated classification of each CCA component was performed based on the ratio of spectral energy of the frequency band 25?50Hz to the band 10?15Hz. It is anticipated a large value of this feature will be observed when muscle activity is present in a component. The optimal feature threshold was selected by maximally remaining EEG components and maximally suppressing muscle artifact components. Results: The developed automated method was able to remain on average 99±0.3% of the EEG component energy, while removing on average 71±33% of the muscle artifact component energy. Conclusions: An automated muscle artifact removal technique was presented, that could be used as pre-processing step in the early detection of ictal activity or as a filter in the visual evaluation of ictal EEG.Currently the same EEG's are being processed by other neurologists, to investigate the user dependency of the optimal separation point to obtain a more generalized gold standard which can improve the robustness of the automated muscle artifact elimination. (Supported by European network of excellence BIOPATTERN (FP6-2002-IST-508803) and Fund for Scientific Research Flanders FWO research project nr G.0360.05. Bart Vanrumste is funded by the ?Programmatorische Federale Overheidsdienst Wetenschapsbeleid? of the Belgian Government.) 1 Cesar Viteri, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Jorge Iriarte, 1 Manuel Alegre, 1 Miguel Valencia, and 1 Julio Artieda ( 1 Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, CUN, CIMA, Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain ) Rationale: Independent component analysis (ICA) is a system that differentiates components of complex signals. One of its capabilities is to study the epileptiform discharges to demonstrate similar or different origin of its components. The goal of this study was to discover how ICA analyse the discharges in the benign centrospikes, to understand better this kind of idiopathic epilepsy. Methods: We analysed 15 discharges of 3 patients with benign centrotemporal epilepsy. Their morphology was sharp wave, spike or spike-and-wave. The samples were recorded digitally with a 32-channels Lamont amplifiers and Harmonie 5.2b program. ICA was applied using the JADE algorithm implemented in a Matlab platform. The components were identified visually. The suspected components were selected and the EEG of these components by itself and together were reconstructed. The topography in each component of the discharge was compared with the original using the BESA program in the same period. Results: The spikes and waves were located in different components. Spikes were separated in one (n = 10), two (n = 4) or three (n = 1) components, with delay between their maximums of 5?10 ms. The waves were isolated in other one or two components. Their topography was centrotemporal, very similar but not identical. The lateralization of each component was variable between components of the same spike, and it could be right, left or bilateral. Each component of the spike fit very well with the EEG in the correspondent time. The topography of the components from different spikes of the same patient varied slightly in the localisation. Conclusions: ICA differentiates several components with temporal evolution in the epileptiform discharges in centrotemporal epilepsy. In most of the discharges, the spike and the wave had different components suggesting different origin. Their topography was centrotemporal, similar but variable in the lateralization and localisation. In each patient the way of analysis of the discharge was very similar but not identical. 1 Chunmao Wang, 2 Istvan Ulbert, 1 Werner K. Doyle, 1 Orrin Devinsky, 1 Ruben Kuzniecky, and 3,4 Eric Halgren ( 1 Department of Neurology, New York University Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York, NY ; 2 Institute of Psychology, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary ; 3 Massachusetts General Hospital NMR Center, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA ; and 4 INSERM, Marseille, France ) Rationale: To study spatio-temporal stages in word processing, both current source density in cortex laminars and subdural potentials were recorded. Methods: Laminar multiple microelectrodes and clinical macroelectrodes were chronically implanted in epilepsy patients undergoing subdural grid and depth implantation for seizure localization. The patients participated in several cognitive tasks during their normal alert status. Three of them were visual word recognition tasks, in which the patients were requested to decide if a word: (1) presented an animal or object longer than one foot; (2) rhymed in ?AY; ? or 3) ended in ?ED? for its past tense. Another task was auditory version of the size judgment task, in which a computer speaker instead of a monitor presented the stimuli. In all four tasks, half of the words were presented during practice stages prior to test, so repetition effect was expected. Results: Extensive overlapping responses were recorded in frontal, temporal, and occipital cortices. In visual cortex, the earliest response was peaking at ?140 ms. For auditory stimuli, the earliest auditory response was in superior temporal cortex, peaking at ?100 ms, and the largest response was in adjacent area [still in superior temporal cortex], starting from ?120 ms and peaking at ?300 ms. These responses were equivalent to new and repeated words. However, there were significant differential responses from ?500?1000 ms to new versus repeated words, for both auditory and visual stimuli, mainly in medial and ventral temporal areas. Laminar electrodes in adjacent areas measured a sink and source complex, with a greater response to new words during the same time range. Conclusions: For both micro and macro recording, word repetition does not affect the initial processing stage but decreases later activity. These differential responses appeared to represent the N4-P3b. (Supported by NS18741 and NS44623.) 1,2 Matthias Winterhalder, 1,2 Bjoern Schelter, 2 Thomas Maiwald, 2 Ariane Schad, 3 Armin Brandt, 1,2 Jens Timmer, and 1,3 Andreas Schulze-Bonhage ( 1 Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ; 2 Center for Data Analysis and Modeling, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ; and 3 Epilepsy Center, University Hospital Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany ) Rationale: Reliable and early prediction of epileptic seizures would open new routes for therapeutic interventions in patients with pharmacorefractory epilepsy. As seizures are characterized by an abnormal synchronization of neurons, multivariate time series analysis techniques detecting synchronized dynamics in invasive EEG recordings of epilepsy patients are a promising approach. Here, we have investigated two synchronization measures originating from the theory of Nonlinear Dynamics with respect to their potential role for epileptic seizure prediction. Methods: Two quantities measuring phase and lag synchronization have been applied to an invasive EEG data pool of 21 patients each with 24 hours of seizure-free recordings and 2?5 pre-seizure periods. Synchronization changes have been examined in different brain structures analyzing focal electrode contacts, i.e. early involved in ictal activity, as well as extra-focal electrode contacts, i.e. not involved in ictal activity or only involved lately during seizure spread. The seizure prediction performance has been assessed by the methodology of the seizure prediction characteristic. The seizure prediction characteristic evaluates sensitivity of a prediction method with respect to its specificity and temporal aspects of a prediction. Comparing with the probability to predict seizures by chance, a test is utilized to decide about the statistical significance. Results: Compared to a random prediction, a significantly better seizure prediction performance has been shown for half of the patients. Both decreasing and increasing synchronization in the EEG dynamics could precede seizures. Regarding the topography of brain structures investigated, a statistical significant superiority of combinations between one focal and one extra-focal electrode contact could be demonstrated for the lag synchronization measure (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Preictal changes in the synchronization of the EEG dynamics may offer a chance for epileptic seizure prediction. Our study shows that the seizure prediction performance differs between patients and strongly depends on the analysis technique applied and the brain structure investigated. (Supported by German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF grant 01GQ0420) and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Ti 315/2-1).) 1 John Zempel, 2 Justin L. Vincent, 2 Linda J. Larson-Prior, and 2 Abraham Z. Snyder ( 1 Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; and 2 Radiology and NeuroImaging Laboratory, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: The ballistocardiogram (BKG) is a significant source of artifact in scalp EEG recorded in the static magnetic field characteristic of human MRI scanners. Multiple methods (averaging, ICA, adaptive filtering) have been successfully employed by others to reduce the BKG. A new method of identifying BKG is used to biologically characterize the BKG across multiple electrodes and subjects. Methods: Simultaneous EEG and fMRI recordings were made from twelve subjects. Greater than than ten hours of EEG containing BKG. EEG-fMRI was recorded in a 3 Tesla Siemens Allegra MR scanner using a Neuroscan (El Paso, TX) Synamps/2 amplifier and Maglink cap and cabling system with Scan 4.5 software. Standard 10/20 electrode positions were collected at a 20 kHz sampling rate and the gradient artifact greatly reduced with Scan 4.5 with decimation of the EEG signal to 500 Hz. 10?20 electrodes were referenced to a common electrode halfway between CZ and CPZ). Two additional processing steps were developed to reduce the BKG (Vincent, et al, Soc Neuroscience Abstracts 2005). First, a custom template based beat detector program, which identifies EKG patterns that represent single heart beats, was used to provide accurate triggering. Second, a moving general linear model was used to generate models of the BKG. The extracted BKG signal was characterized by standard averaging and forward FFT techniques. Results: The BKG waveforms recovered by the GLM technique consistently included components outlasting the mean inter-beat interval in all (12/12) subjects and all 10?20 electrodes. Thus, as the waveforms due to successive beats inconsistently overlap, simple averaging cannot adequately characterize and reduce the BKG artifact. The BKG is large at 3 T. The positive to negative peak variation in the BKG is always more than 100 microvolts, and the largest components are most frequently several hundred microvolts in size in the O1-Ref electrode. The frequency content of the BKG is complicated. In addition to the frequency of the heart rate itself, bimodal peaks at 3?5 Hz and 8?10 Hz are present in the BKG, which contaminate frequency ranges needed to recover standard EEG. When the power spectral density of each electrode is averaged across subjects, the frequency bin with peak power varies over the scalp. Conclusions: BKG recorded at 3 Tesla represents a significant electrical signal that must be successfully removed to obtain EEG that represents brain activity. In addition to removing the BKG, biological characterization of the BKG across multiple subjects allows determination of the nature and variability of this signal. BKG itself is spatially variable in size and frequency content across the scalp. These observations constrain theoretical accounts of BKG origin, which presently remain incomplete. (Supported by K12NS01690 for John Zempel and NS06833 (laboratory of Marcus Raichle).)
ER  - 

AU  - Liptak, Julius M.
AU  - Dernell, William S.
AU  - Farese, James P.
AU  - Worley, Deanna R.
C7  - pp. 491-568
TI  - Musculoskeletal System
SN  - 9780813805429
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118729038.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118729038.ch16
SP  - 491-568
KW  - Benign tumors of bone
KW  - Chondrosarcoma (CSA)
KW  - Hemangiosarcoma and fibrosarcoma
KW  - Hemipelvectomy
KW  - Joint and muscle tumors
KW  - Limb amputation
KW  - Multilobular osteochondrosarcoma (MLO)
KW  - Musculoskeletal system
KW  - Scapulectomy
KW  - Skeletal tumors
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Skeletal Tumors Joint Tumors Muscle Tumors Adjuvant and Other Therapies References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - JANZ, D.
TI  - The Grand Mai épilepsies and the Sleeping-Waking Cycle
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 3
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813805429
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1157.1962.tb05235.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1157.1962.tb05235.x
SP  - 69
EP  - 109
PY  - 1962
AB  - SUMMARY Side by side with the usual classification of minor fits into cortical Jacksonian seizures, rhinencephalic psychomotor fits and centrencephalic fits of the petit mal triad we find another classification of major seizures which is governed by their dependence on or independence of the sleep-waking cycle. Under this aspect three types of course may be described: (1) grand mal épilepsies with attacks predominantly following waking and during the period of relaxation following work (?Feierabend?), the so-called awakening epilepsies; (2) grand mal épilepsies with attacks mainly after falling asleep or before waking, the so-called sleep epilepsies; (3) grand mal épilepsies with irregular dispersed attacks, the so-called diffuse epilepsies. As a rule these types remain constant even in cases of considerable duration. Transitions occur from awakening epilepsy to sleep epilepsy or to diffuse epilepsy and from sleep epilepsy to diffuse epilepsy, but not vice versa. The described types differ in the following clinical features: 90% of awakening epilepsies are cryptogenetic, have a ratio of heredity of 12.5%, and generally start first between the ages of 10 and 25; where they are found in combination they are mostly linked with the petit mal triad; the intervals between fits are to a large extent irregular; the fits themselves are in most cases precipitated by lack of sleep and consumption of alcohol. Seventy-seven percent of sleep epilepsies are cryptogenetic, have a ratio of heredity of 7.7%, and there is no predilection for a particular age; where combined they are mostly linked with psychomotor fits; the intervals between fits are to a large extent regular; the fits themselves are but rarely caused by external circumstances. Diffuse epilepsies are mainly symptomatic (53%), have a ratio of heredity of 3.8% and there is no predilection for a particular age; where combined they are mostly linked with psychomotor fits or Jacksonian seizures; the intervals between fits are to a large extent irregular; the fits themselves are precipitated by a variety of factors whose common denominator is found by acute disturbances of the cerebral circulation. Clinical and electroencephalographical investigations have revealed fundamental differences in the sleep behaviour of patients suffering from awakening or from sleep epilepsies, whereas patients suffering from diffuse epilepsies show no special characteristic in this respect. The differences in sleep patterns apply to the quality ? insofar as both achieve their deep sleep maxima at different times in the course of the sleep ? as well as to the quantity, since patients with sleep epilepsy sleep too much, i.e., have too much deep sleep whilst patients with epilepsy on awakening sleep too little, i.e., have too much shallow sleep. To this corresponds a different behaviour during consciousness, which is correlated electroencephalographically in the case of sleep épilepsies ? excepting abnormalities peculiar to the disease ? with a regular basic rhythm of a constant frequency; in the case of awakening epilepsies, however, it is correlated with a variable EEG, i.e., unstable in frequency and disturbed in rhythm. Patients with sleep and patients with awakening epilepsy further differ in their psychical behaviour, in their somatic condition, in their vegetative functions, in their development during puberty and in their instinctive behaviour. The author reported in detail on the investigations by Christian and Ganshirt dealing with their EEG-findings on pure and combined grand mal epilepsies in waking as well as in sleep. They have shown that sleep epilepsies have generally a normal standard EEG with few general abnormalities and hardly react to hyperventilation, whereas in natural sleep they show considerable increase of specific attack potentials, which never consist of spike-wave-complexes, but almost exclusively of bilaterally symmetrical or synchronised steep outbursts or temporal peaks. In the case of awakening epilepsies however we discern very frequently general abnormalities already in the standard EEG, as well as diffuse or paroxysmal dysrhythmia or specific attack potentials, which are yet increased during hyperventilation and represent almost exclusively only 3?4/sec spikes and waves or multi-spikes-waves. The increase of specific attack findings between the EEG during waking and the sleep EEG amounts to 1: 1.2 in the case of awakening epilepsies and 1: 10 in the case of sleep epilepsies. Diffuse epilepsies are closer to sleep epilepsies as regards their little reaction to hyperventilation, but closer to awakening epilepsies as regards their low rate of increase in specific attack potentials during sleep (1: 1.5). As for the question of the cerebral localisation, which was investigated on the basis of 141 patients with grand mal epilepsies following circumscribed brain injuries and locatable brain tumours, a relationship was found to be probable insofar as frontal brain injuries lead mainly to sleep epilepsy but parietal brain injuries mainly to diffuse epilepsy. No correlations could be established where awakening epilepsies and other localisations are concerned. The biological antagonism between awakening epilepsy and sleep epilepsy is reflected in a different response to antiepileptic drugs. Sleep epilepsies respond well to hydantoins and badly to phenobarbitone, awakening epilepsies respond well to phenobarbitone and only poorly to hydantoins. No particular differences in the effectiveness of mysoline have been shown when adminstered to either type. For diffuse epilepsies there is no medicament of outstanding effectiveness. RÉSUMÉ A côté de la classification usuelle des crises mineures en brusques crises corticales Jacksonniennes, crises psychomotrices rhinencéphaliques et crises centrencéphaliques de la triade du petit mal, nous trouvons une autre classification de crises majeures que gouverne leur indépendance ou leur dépendance du cycle de l'épilepsie sommeil-vigile. Ainsi présentés on peut décrire trois types de cours de la maladie: (1) épilepsies de grand mal dont les crises surviennent en prédominance après le réveil et pendant la période de relaxation qui fait suite au travail (Feierabend?), ces épilepsies sont dites épilepsies du réveil; (2) épilepsies de grand mal dont les crises se produisent principalement apres que le patient se soit endormi ou avant son réveil: épilepsies dites en sommeil; (3) épilepsies de grand mal avec crises se dispersant irrégulièrement, épilepsies dites épilepsies diffuses. Selon la règle, ces types restent constants même dans les cas de très longue durée. II survient des transitions de l'épilepsie du réveil à l'épilepsie en sommeil ou à l'épilepsie diffuse, et de l'épilepsie en sommeil à l'épilepsie diffuse, mais non vice versa. Les types décrits différent selon les traits cliniques suivants: 90% des épilepsies à l'état du réveil sont cryptogénétiques, elles sont héréditaires en une proportion de 12.5% et débutent généralement entre 10 et 25 ans; quand on les trouve en combinaison, elles sont le plus souvent en rapport avec la triade du petit mal; les intervalles entre les crises sont fortement irréguliers; les crises mêmes sont, dans la plupart des cas, précipitées par un besoin de sommeil ou une consommation d'alcool. Soixantedix-sept pour cent d'épilepsies à l'état de sommeil sont cryptogénétiques, elles sont héréditaires en 7.7% des cas et ne montrent aucune prédilection pour un âge quelconque; quand elles sont combinées, elles sont le plus souvent unies à des crises psychomotrices; les intervalles entre les crises sont en forte mesure réguliers; les crises mêmes ne sont que rarement causées par des circonstances externes. Les épilepsies diffuses sont principalement symptomatiques (53%), leur pourcentage d'hérédité est de 3.8% et elles ne montrent point de prédilection pour un âge quelconque; quand elles sont combinées, elles sont souvent unies à des crises psychomotrices ou des crises Jacksonniennes; les intervalles entre les crises sont fortement irréguliers; les crises mêmes sont précipitées par des facteurs variés dont le dénominateur commun est situé dans un trouble aigu de la circulation cérébrale. Des recherches cljniques et encéphalographiques ont révélé des différences fondamentales dans le comportement du sommeil des malades souffrant d'épilepsies du réveil ou à l'état de sommeil tandis que les épilepsies diffuses ne présentent aucune caractéristique spéciale sous ce rapport. Les différences entre les types du sommeil s'appliquent à la qualité? pour autant que les deux genres achèvent leurs maximums de profond sommeil à différents moments du cours du sommeil ? tout aussi bien qu'à la quantité puisque les épileptiques en sommeil dorment trop, c'est-à-dire dorment trop d'un sommeil profond, tandis que les épileptiques dont les crises surviennent pendant le réveil dorment trop peu, c'est-à-dire qu'ils ont trop de sommeil léger. II correspond à ceci un comportement différent durent l'état conscient, ce qui est en correlation avec l'encéphalogramme en cas d'épilepsie en sommeil ? exception faite des anomalies propres à la maladie ? avec un rythme de base régulier de fréquence constante; toutefois, en cas d'épilepsie du réveil ce rapport s'établit avec un E.E.G. variable, c'est-à-dire de fréquence instable et de rythme troublé. Les malades avec épilepsie en sommeil et ceux avec épilepsie à l'état de veille diffèrent de plus dans leur comportement psychique, dans leur condition somatique, dans leurs fonctions végétatives, dans leur développement au cours de la puberté et dans leur comportement instinctif. L'auteur rapporte en détail les recherches de Christian et Gänshirt qui communiquent leurs découvertes faites dans l'E.E.G. sur les épilepsies pures et combinées de grand mal en épilepsies en vigile tout comme en sommeil. Ils ont démontré que les épilepsies en sommeil ont le plus souvent un standard normal d'E.E.G. avec peu d'anomalies et qu'elles réagissent à peine à l'hyperventilation tandis que, lors de sommeil naturel, elles présentent une augmentation considérable de potentiels de crises spécifiques lesquels ne consistent jamais en des complexes de pointes ondes, mais presque exclusivement en fortes bouffées bilatéralement symétriques ou synchronisées, ou en pointes temporales. Dans les cas d'épilepsie du réveil, toutefois, nous pouvons discerner déjà, très fréquemment, dans l'E.E.G. standard des anomalies générates et aussi des dysrythmies diffuses ou paroxysmales ou des potentiels spécifiques de crises, lesquels sont encore augmentés par l'hyperventilation et ne représented presque exclusivement que des pointes-ondes de 3?4/sec ou des ondes multi-pointes. L'augmentation des constatations de crise spécifique qui se produit entre l'E.E.G. à l'état de veille et l'E.E.G. du sommeil comprend 1:1.2 dans les cas d'épilepsies à l'état de veille et 1:10 dans les cas d'épilepsie en sommeil. Les épilepsies diffuses se rapprochent plus des épilepsies en sommeil en ce qui concerne leur légère réaction à l'hyperventilation mais elles sont plus rapprochées de l'épilepsie en vigile en ce qui regarde le peu d'élevation de leur taux d'augmentation en potentiels spécifiques de crises durant le sommeil (1:1.5). Quant a la question de la localisation cérébrale, que nous avons étudiée sur une base de 141 malades ayant des épilepsies de grand mal provenant de lésions cérébrales circonscrites et de tumeurs cérébrates susceptibles de localisation, nous avons trouvé la probabilité d'un rapport pour autant qu'un traumatisme du cerveau frontal conduit principalement à l'épilepsie en sommeil, mais qu'un traumatisme pariétal provoque principalement une épilepsie diffuse. II n'a pu etre établi de corrélation quand il s'agit d'épilepsie en vigile ou de localisations autres. L'antagonisme biologique entre l'épilepsie en vigile et l'épilepsie en sommeil est démontré par différentes réactions à des médicaments antiépileptiques. L'épilepsie pendant le sommeil réagit favorablement à des hydantoines et mal au phénobarbitone; en vigile, l'épilepsie réagit bien au phénobarbitone et mal aux médicaments à l'hydantoine. Des différences particulières dans l'efficacité de la mysoline n'ont pas été observées dans l'administration à l'un ou l'autre type. Quant aux épilepsies diffuses, il n'y a pas de médicaments d'efficacité spéciale. ZUSAMMENFASSUNG Der geläufigen Einteilung der kleinen Anfälle in kortikale Jackson-Anfälle, rhinence-phale psychomotorische Anfälle und centrencephale Anfälle der Petit-mal-Trias wird eine Einteilung der grossen Anfälle zur Seite gestellt, die sich nach der Abhängigkeit oder Unabhängigkeit der grossen Anfälle vom Schlaf-Wachrhytmus richtet. Unter diesem Aspekt lassen sich 3 Verlaufsformen beschreiben: (1) Grand-mal-Epilepsien mit Anfällen vorwiegend nach dem Erwachen und während der Entspannungssituation nach der Arbeit (?urn Feierabend?), sog. Aufwachepilepsien; (2) Grand-mal-Epilepsien mit Anfällen vorwiegend nach dem Einschlafen und vor dem Aufwachen, sog. Schlafepilepsien; (3) Grand-mal-Epilepsien mit unregelmässiger Anfallsverteilung, sog. diffuse Epilepsien. In der Regel bleiben diese Formen auch bei längerem Krankheitsverlauf konstant. Überg?ange können erfolgen von Aufwach- in Schlafoder in diffuse Epilepsien und von Schlaf- in diffuse Epilepsien, jedoch nicht in umgekehrter Richtung. Die beschriebenen Formen unterscheiden sich in folgenden klinischen Eigenschaften: Aufwach-Epilepsien sind zu 90% kryptogen, haben eine Hereditätsquote von 12.5% und beginnen meist zwischen dem 10. und 25. Jahr; in Kombination sind sie meist mit Anfällen der Petit-mal-Trias verknüpft; die Anfälle selbst werden vorwiegend durch Schlafdefizit und Alkohol ausgelöst. Schlafepilepsien sind zu 77% kryptogen und zu 23% symptomatisch mit einer Hereditätsquote von 7.7%,; sie haben kein Prädilektionsalter; in Kombination sind sie meist mit psychomotorischen Anfällen verknüpft; die Anfallsintervalle sind weitgehend regelmässig; die Anfälle selbst werden nur selten durch exogene Umstände ausgelöst. Diffuse Epilepsien sind vorwiegend symptomatisch (53%) mit einer Hereditätsquote von 3,8%; sie haben kein Prädilektionsalter; in Kombination treten sie meist mit psychomotorischen Anfällen oder mit Jackson-Anfällen auf; die Anfallsintervalle sind unregelmässig; die Anfälle selbst werden durch verschiedenartige Faktoren ausgelöst, deren gemeinsamer Nenner in akuten Regulationsstörungen der Gehirndurchblutung zu suchen ist. Klinische und elektroencephalographische Untersuchungen lassen fundamentale Unterschiede im Schlafverhalten bei Aufwach- und bei Schlaf-Epileptikern erkennen, während Kranke mit einer diffusen Epilepsie in dieser Hinsicht keine charakteristischen Abweichungen bieten. Die Unterschiede betreffen sowohl die Qualität des Schlafs ? insofern als beide ihre Tiefschlaf-Maxima zu verschiedenen Zeiten während des Schlafverlaufs erreichen ?, als auch die Quantität, da Patienten mit einer Schlaf-epilepsie zu viel schlafen, d.h. zu lange tief und Patienten mit einer Aufwachepilepsie zu wenig, d.h. zu lange flach schlafen. Dem entspricht ein verschiedenes Wachverhalten, das elektroencephalographisch bei Schlaf-Epileptikern ? abgesehen von anfallsspezifischen Veränderungen ? mit einem regelmässigen, frequenzkonstanten Grundrhythmus und bei Aufwach-Epileptikern mit einem frequenzlabilen, dysrhythmi-schen EEG korreliert ist. Kranke mit Aufwach- und Kranke mit Schlaf-Epilepsien unterscheiden sich ferner in ihrem psychischen Verhalten, in ihrer körperlichen Konstitution, ihren vegetativen Funktionen, ihrer Pubertätsentwicklung und ihrem Triebverhalten. Ausführlich referiert werden die EEG-Untersuchungen von Christian und Gänshirt bei reinen und kombinierten Grand-mal-Epilepsien im Wachen wie im Schlaf, die zeigen, dass Schlaf-Epilepsien meist ein unauffälliges Standard-EEG mit wenig Allgemeinveränderungen bieten, auf Hyperventilation kaum, im natürlichen Schlaf dagegen mit einer erheblichen Zunahme anfalls-spezifischer Potentiale reagieren, bei denen es sich nie um spike-wave-Komplexe, sondern fast nur um bilateral-symmetrische oder synchronisierte steile Ausbrüche oder steile Spitzen handelt. Aufwach-Epilepsien bieten dagegen sehr häufig schon im Standard-EEG Allgemeinveränderungen, diffuse oder paroxysmale Dysrhythmien oder spezifische Anfallspotentiale, die auf Hyperventilation noch zunehmen und fast ausschliesslich nur 3?4/sec spike-waves und multi-spike-waves darstellen. Der Zuwachs anfallsspezifischer Befunde vom Wach-zum-Schlaf-EEG beträgt bei Aufwach-Epilepsien 1: 1.2 und bei Schlaf-Epilepsien 1: 10. Diffuse Epilepsien stehen hinsichtlich ihrer geringen Reaktion auf Hyperventilation den Schlaf-Epilepsien näher und hinsichtlich ihrer geringen Zuwachsrate anfallsspezifischer Befunde im Schlaf (1: 1.5) den Aufwach-Epilepsien. Eine hirnlokalisatorische Beziehung liess sich auf Grund von Untersuchungen an 141 Grand-mal-Epilepsien nach lokalisierten Hirnverletzungen und -Tumoren insofern wahrscheinlich machen, als Stirnhirnschädigungen vorwiegend zu Schlaf-Epilepsien und Parietalhirnverletzungen vorwiegend zu diffusen Epilepsien führen. Für Aufwach-Epilepsien und für andere Lokalisationen liessen sich keine Korrelationen ermitteln. Der biologische Antagonismus zwischen Aufwach- und Schlaf-Epilepsien spiegelt sich in einer unterschiedlichen Ansprechbarkeit auf Antiepileptika wieder. Schlaf-Epilepsien sprechen gut auf Hydantoine und schlecht auf Luminal, Aufwach-Epilepsien gut auf Luminal und nur mässig auf Hydantoine an. Für Mylepsin ergibt sich keine signifikante Wirkungsdifferenz. Bei diffusen Epilepsien ist kein Medikament optimal indiziert.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hakkarainen, P.
AU  - Kapanen, S.
AU  - Honkanen, E.
AU  - Löflund, E.
TI  - Long slow night hemodialysis and quality of life
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813805429
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121bw.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121bw.x
SP  - 97
EP  - 97
PY  - 2005
AB  - Background:? Long slow hemodialysis (LS-HD) improves many biochemical parameters compared with conventional HD. However, its influences on quality of life are less well known. Aims:?The objective of this study was to examine the quality of life of patients on LS-HD performed overnight compared to the patients on standard hemodialysis. This extends the previous study, conducted in 2001, which examined the LS-HD patients, quality of life. Patients and methods:?We sent questionnaires to 12 LS-HD (overnight, treatment time 8?h???3/wk) patients and 15 day HD (4.5?h???3/wk) patients, all being treated using the limited care method. Data was collected using two different structured questionnaires. One was constructed for a previous study (2001) and the other one was a standardized set of questionnaires (RAND-36). Research material was collected from patient documents, such as the essential biochemical parameters, blood pressure, weight gain, and weekly EPO doses were recorded. Ten of the LS-HD patients (83%) and 13/15 (87%) of day HD patients returned the questionnaires. Three day hemodialysis patients returned empty questionnaires, which were disqualified. Results:?Based on the medical facts, the results showed that the patients of LS-HD felt better than the patients in another group. Patients on the LS-HD had higher Kt/V (2.623 vs. 1.577) and Hb (118 vs. 111) and lower Pi (1.36 vs. 1.63) and EPO dose (epoietin-beta 2667?ky/week vs. 5833?ky/week; darbepoetin 16?ky/week vs. 37?ky/week). However, their predialysis BP as well as the weight gain between treatments and salt and fluid balances caused problems furthermore. The experiences of the therapy of the LS-HD patients were more positive than of the control group: they felt their medical condition was better than of the patients on day HD. However we didn?t observe significant differences in the replies showing physical or psychosocial conditions between the two groups. Conclusions:?The study suggests that when patients can themselves make the choice between treatment modalities, it improves the quality of life of the patients. Control of anemia is improved in LS-HD overnight patients with lower doses of EPO. The LS-HD gives the patients more freedom of diet. However, more attention must be paid to salt and fluid restriction. The LS-HD makes it possible for many patients to work normally.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vinayak, A.
AU  - Frank, C. B.
AU  - Gardiner, D. W.
AU  - Thieman-Mankin, K. M.
AU  - Worley, D. R.
C8  - JSAP-2015-0448.R2
TI  - Malignant anal sac melanoma in dogs: eleven cases (2000 to 2015)
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 58
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780813805429
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12637
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12637
SP  - 231
EP  - 237
PY  - 2017
AB  - Objectives To report the signalment, clinical presentation, treatments pursued and outcomes of dogs with malignant anal sac melanoma. Methods Medical records from five institutions from January 2000 through December 2015 were reviewed and dogs with cytologically- or histologically-confirmed malignant anal sac melanoma were identified. Signalment, clinical signs, staging, cytology, histopathologic analysis, surgical and non-surgical treatments were extracted from the medical records. The referring veterinarians and owners were contacted for follow-up data. Results Eleven dogs were included and survival data was available for all. The most common clinical signs were bloody anal sac discharge and perianal licking. Initial treatments pursued included surgery (n=8), chemotherapy (n=1), and palliative treatment with pain medications and stool softeners (n=2). In an adjuvant setting, melanoma vaccine was pursued following surgery in three dogs and chemotherapy in one dog. Regardless of treatment, progression-free survival (mean 92 · 5?days) and overall survival times (median 107?days) were short. Clinical Significance Dogs in this case series had a guarded to poor prognosis regardless of treatment. Ten of 11 dogs were euthanased due to local or distant disease progression. Only 1 of 11 dogs was alive one year after diagnosis. An understanding of tumour behaviour in this location could lead to improved survival times with earlier diagnosis and treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Oseni, Adelola
AU  - Crowley, Claire
AU  - Lowdell, Mark
AU  - Birchall, Martin
AU  - Butler, Peter E.
AU  - Seifalian, Alexander M.
TI  - Advancing nasal reconstructive surgery: the application of tissue engineering technology
JO  - Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine
JA  - J Tissue Eng Regen Med
VL  - 6
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780813805429
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/term.487
DO  - doi:10.1002/term.487
SP  - 757
EP  - 768
KW  - tissue engineering
KW  - scaffold
KW  - rhinoplasty
KW  - nasal reconstructive surgery
KW  - biomaterials
KW  - nanotechnology
KW  - stem cells
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Cartilage tissue engineering is a rapidly progressing area of regenerative medicine with advances in cell biology and scaffold engineering constantly being investigated. Many groups are now capable of making neocartilage constructs with some level of morphological, biochemical, and histological likeness to native human cartilage tissues. The application of this useful technology in articular cartilage repair is well described in the literature; however, few studies have evaluated its application in head and neck reconstruction. Although there are many studies on auricular cartilage tissue engineering, there are few studies regarding cartilage tissue engineering for complex nasal reconstruction. This study therefore highlighted the challenges involved with nasal reconstruction, with special focus on nasal cartilage tissue, and examined how advancements made in cartilage tissue engineering research could be applied to improve the clinical outcomes of total nasal reconstructive surgery. Copyright ? 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Berntorp, E.
AU  - Fuchs, B.
AU  - Makris, M.
AU  - Montgomery, R.
AU  - Flood, V.
AU  - O'Donnell, J. S.
AU  - Federici, A. B.
AU  - Lillicrap, D.
AU  - James, P.
AU  - Budde, U.
AU  - Morfini, M.
AU  - Petrini, P.
AU  - Austin, S.
AU  - Kannicht, C.
AU  - Jiménez-Yuste, V.
AU  - Lee, C.
TI  - Third Åland islands conference on von Willebrand disease, 26–28 September 2012: meeting report
JO  - Haemophilia
JA  - Haemophilia
VL  - 19
IS  - s3
SN  - 9780813805429
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/hae.12078
DO  - doi:10.1111/hae.12078
SP  - 1
EP  - 18
KW  - factor VIII
KW  - genetics
KW  - inhibitors
KW  - pharmacokinetics
KW  - von Willebrand factor
KW  - von Willebrand disease
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary The first meeting of international specialists in the field of von Willebrand disease (VWD) was held in the Åland islands in 1998 where Erik von Willebrand had first observed a bleeding disorder in some members of a family from Föglö and a summary of the meeting was published in 1999. The second meeting was held in 2010 and a report of the meeting was published in 2012. Topics covered included progress in understanding of VWD over the last 50 years; multimers; classification of VWD; pharmacokinetics and laboratory assays; genetics; treating the paediatric patient; prophylaxis; geriatrics; gene therapy and treatment guidelines. This third meeting held over 3 days covered the structure and function of von Willebrand factor (VWF); type 1 VWD, the most common form of the disease; a lifespan of pharmacokinetics in VWD; detecting inhibitors in VWD patients; and special challenges in understanding and treating the female VWD patient.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Srugo, I.
AU  - Chai, O.
AU  - Yaakov, D.
AU  - Sharon, L.
AU  - Shamir, M. H.
TI  - Successful medical management of lumbar intervertebral disc prolapse in a ferret
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 51
IS  - 8
SN  - 9780813805429
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2010.00964.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2010.00964.x
SP  - 447
EP  - 450
PY  - 2010
AB  - Thoracolumbar disc herniation was diagnosed in a two-year-old ferret using a myelogram followed by a computed tomography scan. The ferret was paraplegic with no control over urination and defecation. Conservative treatment that included cage rest and passive range of motion exercises for three weeks followed by extensive physiotherapy and hydrotherapy resulted in full recovery two months after the onset of treatment. Although intervertebral disc disease has been reported previously in four ferrets, this is the first report in which a postmyelogram computed tomography was used to demonstrate the herniated disc, and physiotherapy was used as principal treatment modality.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - De Decker, Steven
AU  - Caemaert, Jacques
AU  - Tshamala, Mulenda C.
AU  - Gielen, Ingrid M. V. L.
AU  - Van Bree, Henri J. J.
AU  - Bosmans, Tim
AU  - Wegge, Beatrice
AU  - Van Ham, Luc M. L.
TI  - Surgical Treatment of Disk-Associated Wobbler Syndrome by a Distractable Vertebral Titanium Cage in Seven Dogs
JO  - Veterinary Surgery
VL  - 40
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780813805429
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1532-950X.2011.00839.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1532-950X.2011.00839.x
SP  - 544
EP  - 554
PY  - 2011
AB  - Objective: To evaluate a distractable titanium cage for the treatment of disk-associated wobbler syndrome (DAWS). Study Design: Prospective study. Animals: Dogs (n=7) with DAWS. Methods: After total discectomy of C5?C6 and C6?C7, the median part of the vertebral body of C6 was removed with preservation of the lateral walls and dorsal cortex. The removed cancellous bone was collected. The implant was placed in the bony defect of C6. After placement, the titanium cage was distracted and affixed by 4 screws. Finally, the implant was filled and covered with cancellous bone. Dogs had follow-up examinations at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months. Six months after surgery, cervical radiographs and computed tomography (CT) were performed. Results: Although no intraoperative complications occurred, correct placement of the cage was technically challenging. Revision surgery was necessary in 2 dogs because of implant loosening and aggravation of vertebral tilting. All dogs improved after discharge from the hospital. In 1 dog, recurrence of clinical signs caused by articular facet proliferation at an adjacent intervertebral disk space occurred. Radiographs at 6 months demonstrated cage subsidence in 4 dogs. In all dogs, CT was suggestive for fusion of the bone graft with the vertebral body. Conclusions: Although results are promising, technical adaptations will be necessary to make this specific surgical technique, designed for humans, suitable for routine use in dogs.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 127-139
TI  - Acute Coronary Syndrome
SN  - 9781405154000
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444300772.ch18
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444300772.ch18
SP  - 127-139
KW  - acute myocardial infarction to stable angina
KW  - non-invasive stress testing
KW  - exercise electrocardiogram (ECG) stress testing
KW  - myocardial perfusion imaging
KW  - coronary artery disease (CAD)
KW  - acute myocardial infarction (AMI)
KW  - unstable angina (UA)
KW  - acute coronary syndrome (ACS)
KW  - serum biomarkers
KW  - lactose dehydrogenase (LDH)
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Background Serum biomarkers Clinical question one Comments Non-invasive cardiac testing Clinical question two Comments CT coronary angiography Clinical question three Comments References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Francis
TI  - The effects of testosterone on osteoporosis in men
JO  - Clinical Endocrinology
JA  - Clinical Endocrinology
VL  - 50
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405154000
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00730.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00730.x
SP  - 411
EP  - 414
PY  - 1999
AB  - Although the pathogenesis of osteoporosis in men is multi-factorial, testosterone is known to play an important role in the maintenance of the male skeleton. This role, however, appears complicated as it may be mediated in part by aromatization to oestradiol. Testosterone replacement therapy improves bone density in men with hypogonadal osteoporosis, particularly if the epiphyses are still open. There is no well-established treatment for idiopathic osteoporosis in men, but testosterone supplementation may prove to be useful. Further studies are required to confirm the safety and efficacy of this treatment in eugonadal men with osteoporosis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lucas, M.C.
AU  - Baras, E.
TI  - Methods for studying spatial behaviour of freshwater fishes in the natural environment
JO  - Fish and Fisheries
VL  - 1
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781405154000
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1467-2979.2000.00028.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1467-2979.2000.00028.x
SP  - 283
EP  - 316
KW  - freshwater fish behaviour
KW  - hydroacoustics
KW  - migration
KW  - otolith microchemistry
KW  - tagging
KW  - telemetry
PY  - 2000
AB  - Spatial behaviour of fishes in fresh and brackish water ranges in temporal scales between localized diel movements, often associated with foraging and predator evasion, to seasonal or life-cycle related events involving movements between freshwater habitats or freshwater and marine biotopes. Recent technological advances have resulted in dramatic improvements in the range of techniques available for the study of spatial behaviour of freshwater fishes in the natural environment, and broadly may be divided into two categories: capture dependent and capture independent. The former incorporates those methods that rely on sampling marked fish (mark?recapture) or unmarked fish (density estimates, catch per unit effort) over defined scales of time and space in order to derive information on distribution and movement. Captured fish may also be tagged with transmitters that radiate energy, enabling the fish to be tracked and/or environmental data to be gathered. Biochemical analysis of samples from fish, requiring non-destructive sampling (genetic analysis and scale microchemistry) or destructive sampling (otolith microchemistry) may also provide information on migration and ontogenetic processes. Capture independent techniques include visual observation and video techniques, hydroacoustics and automated fish counting. Catch per unit effort and mark?recapture techniques are most efficient where long-term fishery or monitoring studies are in place and data on crude spatial and temporal scales are acceptable. They also have the advantages of low technical requirements and low equipment costs. Where specific management or ecological questions are pertinent, recapture independent techniques may be more appropriate. Telemetric methods can provide high resolution information at the individual level, while hydroacoustics is increasingly providing information at the population level in large lake and river environments. Biochemical methods are becoming increasingly useful in determining the extent of population segregation, where DNA analysis is used, and in the study of migration and ontogenetic changes in behaviour, where otolith microchemistry and stable isotope analysis is used.
ER  - 
