
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chapleau, Kristine M.
AU  - Bell, Morris D.
AU  - Lysaker, Paul H.
TI  - The relationship between post-traumatic symptom severity and object relations deficits in persons with schizophrenia
JO  - British Journal of Clinical Psychology
JA  - Br J Clin Psychol
VL  - 53
IS  - 2
SN  - 0144-6657
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bjc.12033
DO  - doi:10.1111/bjc.12033
SP  - 157
EP  - 169
PY  - 2014
AB  - Objective The aim of this study was to determine if object relations deficits in people with schizophrenia spectrum disorders (i.e., schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder) are related to co-morbid post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Design Cross-sectional and correlational. Method Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Checklist, and Bell Object Relations Inventory were administered to 60 people with schizophrenia in an outpatient setting. With four hierarchical regressions, we hypothesized that, controlling for schizophrenia symptoms, diagnosis type, and potential demographic features, PTSD symptoms would correlate with each of the four types of object relations deficits. Results All participants reported experiencing at least one traumatic experience. As predicted, PTSD symptoms were a significant predictor of alienation, insecure attachment, and egocentricity controlling for schizophrenia symptoms, diagnosis type, and demographic features. Against prediction, PTSD was not associated with Social Incompetence. Conclusion If PTSD symptoms contribute to object relations deficits in persons with schizophrenia spectrum disorders, then interventions such as psychotherapy need to be developed to address PTSD symptoms in the treatment of these interpersonal deficits. Practitioner points Clinical implications Post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms, rather than schizophrenia itself, may explain increased problems with schizophrenia patients' alienation, egocentricity, and insecure attachment. Interventions such as psychotherapy need to be further developed to address PTSD symptoms as well as schizophrenia symptoms in this patient population. Limitations Participants were primarily male and middle-aged, and many years had passed since the onset of their illness. Replication is needed with diverse settings and participants, including women and persons in earlier phases of schizophrenia spectrum disorders. One self-report measure was used to estimate object relations deficits, a complex construct that may be difficult to measure accurately. This research is correlational and causation cannot be presumed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Alves, Renato Vasconcelos
AU  - Machion, Luciana
AU  - Casati, Màrcio Zaffalon
AU  - Nociti Jr., Francisco Humberto
AU  - Sallum, Enilson Antonio
AU  - Sallum, Antonio Wilson
TI  - Clinical attachment loss produced by curettes and ultrasonic scalers
JO  - Journal of Clinical Periodontology
VL  - 32
IS  - 7
SN  - 0303-6979
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-051X.2005.00713.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-051X.2005.00713.x
SP  - 691
EP  - 694
KW  - attachment loss
KW  - periodontal curettes
KW  - scaling
KW  - trauma from instrumentation
KW  - ultrasonic scalers
PY  - 2005
AB  - Abstract Objectives: The aim of this study was to clinically detect the immediate effect of root instrumentation with curettes and ultrasonic scalers on clinical attachment level. Material and Methods: Twelve subjects with moderate chronic periodontitis, presenting probing depths of 3.5?6.5?mm on anterior teeth, upper and/or lower, were selected. Teeth were randomly assigned to one of the following groups: US group ? scaled with an ultrasonic scaler; and CC group ? scaled and planed with 5?6 Gracey curettes. The selected teeth were probed with a computerized electronic probe, guided by an occlusal stent and subjected to scaling and root planing. Immediately following instrumentation, teeth were probed again. The difference between relative attachment level (RAL) immediately before and after instrumentation was considered trauma from instrumentation. Results: Intra-group analysis revealed statistically significant differences between RAL immediately before and after instrumentation in both groups (0.77±0.51 for US group; and 0.73±0.41 for CC group, p<0.0001). However, inter-group analysis did not show statistically significant difference in trauma from instrumentation caused by the two different instruments (p=0.816). Conclusions: Within the limits of this study, it was concluded that root instrumentation causes a mean immediate attachment loss of 0.75?mm, and that instrumentation with either curettes or ultrasonic scalers do not seem to reduce significantly the trauma from of instrumentation produced.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Maercker, Andreas
AU  - Horn, Andrea B.
TI  - A Socio-interpersonal Perspective on PTSD: The Case for Environments and Interpersonal Processes
JO  - Clinical Psychology & Psychotherapy
JA  - Clin. Psychol. Psychother.
VL  - 20
IS  - 6
SN  - 1063-3995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cpp.1805
DO  - doi:10.1002/cpp.1805
SP  - 465
EP  - 481
KW  - Post-traumatic Stress Disorder
KW  - Interpersonal Processes
KW  - Social Context
KW  - Disclosure
KW  - Social Sharing
PY  - 2013
AB  - Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common reaction to traumatic experiences. We propose a socio-interpersonal model of PTSD that complements existing models of post-traumatic memory processes or neurobiological changes. The model adds an interpersonal perspective to explain responses to traumatic stress. The framework draws from lifespan psychology, cultural psychology and research into close relationships and groups. Additionally, clinical knowledge about PTSD is incorporated. This involves knowledge about shame, guilt, estrangement feelings and protective factors, such as social support and forgiveness. Three levels are proposed at which relevant interpersonal processes can be situated and should be adequately researched. First, the individual level comprises social affective states, such as shame, guilt, anger and feelings of revenge. Second, at the close relationship level, social support, negative exchange (ostracism and blaming the victim), disclosure and empathy are proposed as dyadic processes relevant to PTSD research and treatment. Third, the distant social level represents culture and society, in which the collectivistic nature of trauma, perceived injustice, and social acknowledgement are concepts that predict the response trajectories to traumatic stress. Research by the current authors and others is cited in an effort to promote future investigation based on the current model. Methodological implications, such as multi-level data analyses, and clinical implications, such as the need for couple, community or larger-level societal interventions, are both outlined. Copyright ? 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Key Practitioner Message The socio-interpersonal model proposes an interpersonal view of the processes that occur in the aftermath of a traumatic experience. At the individual level, the model integrates the social affective phenomena that clinical research identifies in PTSD patients, including shame, guilt, anger, revenge and the urges or reluctance to disclose. At the level of close relationships, there is an emphasis on the role of the individuals' partner, family or social support in the development or maintenance of PTSD and its recovery. At the distant social level, societal and cultural factors, e.g., individualistic versus collectivistic or other human value orientations, are acknowledged as contributing to the severity and course of PTSD. Increasing attention should be given to new approaches of PTSD treatment that refer to an interpersonal view of PTSD, e.g., communication training, PTSD-specific couples' therapy or community programs.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Crawford, Regina D.
AU  - Jonassaint, Charles R.
TI  - Adults with sickle cell disease may perform cognitive tests as well as controls when processing speed is taken into account: a preliminary case–control study
JO  - Journal of Advanced Nursing
JA  - J Adv Nurs
VL  - 72
IS  - 6
SN  - 0309-2402
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jan.12755
DO  - doi:10.1111/jan.12755
SP  - 1409
EP  - 1416
KW  - case-control studies
KW  - computer neurocognitive testing
KW  - nursing
KW  - sickle cell disease
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Aims This study aimed to: (1) evaluate cognitive function among adults with sickle cell disease using a computer-administered neuropsychological test; and (2) replicate previously identified differences in processing speed between patients with sickle cell disease and controls. Background Previous evidence suggests that, compared with controls, adult patients with sickle cell disease have poorer cognitive functioning across most domains but the most significant deficits appear to be in the area of processing speed. Design Cross-sectional case?control study conducted from June 2008?June 2010. Methods Cognitive functioning was measured using computerized, self-administered, neuropsychological tests among 31 patients with sickle cell disease and 17 controls matched for age, gender and race. The assessment averaged 30 minutes and scores were recorded for seven computerized tests: verbal and visual memory, finger tapping, symbol digit coding, Stroop test, shifting attention and continuous performance. Results Patients with sickle cell disease scored 10·76 points lower on the CNS Vital Signs processing speed domain than controls. Although non-significant, patients scored 5·73 points lower on the full index than controls but after adjusting for processing speed, mean scores for patients were 3 points greater compared with controls. Differences in executive functioning and attention were not significant and memory did not differ between groups. Conclusion Using a brief, computer-administered 30-minute neuropsychological test, we were able to replicate previous findings showing a greater than 10-point deficit in processing speed among patients with sickle cell disease. When differences in processing speed are taken into account, patients perform equally well or better than controls on cognitive tasks.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lyden, Patrick
AU  - Pryor, Kent E.
AU  - Coffey, Christopher S.
AU  - Cudkowicz, Merit
AU  - Conwit, Robin
AU  - Jadhav, Ashutosh
AU  - Sawyer Jr, Robert N.
AU  - Claassen, Jan
AU  - Adeoye, Opeolu
AU  - Song, Shlee
AU  - Hannon, Peter
AU  - Rost, Natalia S.
AU  - Hinduja, Archana
AU  - Torbey, Michel
AU  - Lee, Jin-Moo
AU  - Benesch, Curtis
AU  - Rippee, Michael
AU  - Rymer, Marilyn
AU  - Froehler, Michael T.
AU  - Clarke Haley, E.
AU  - Johnson, Mark
AU  - Yankey, Jon
AU  - Magee, Kim
AU  - Qidwai, Julie
AU  - Levy, Howard
AU  - Mark Haacke, E.
AU  - Fawaz, Miller
AU  - Davis, Thomas P.
AU  - Toga, Arthur W.
AU  - Griffin, John H.
AU  - Zlokovic, Berislav V.
AU  - the NeuroNEXT Clinical Trials Network NN104 Investigators
TI  - Final Results of the RHAPSODY Trial: A Multi-Center, Phase 2 Trial Using a Continual Reassessment Method to Determine the Safety and Tolerability of 3K3A-APC, A Recombinant Variant of Human Activated Protein C, in Combination with Tissue Plasminogen Activator, Mechanical Thrombectomy or both in Moderate to Severe Acute Ischemic Stroke
JO  - Annals of Neurology
JA  - Ann Neurol
VL  - 85
IS  - 1
SN  - 0364-5134
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ana.25383
DO  - doi:10.1002/ana.25383
SP  - 125
EP  - 136
PY  - 2019
AB  - Objective Agonism of protease-activated receptor (PAR) 1 by activated protein C (APC) provides neuro- and vasculoprotection in experimental neuroinjury models. The pleiotropic PAR1 agonist, 3K3A-APC, reduces neurological injury and promotes vascular integrity; 3K3A-APC proved safe in human volunteers. We performed a randomized, controlled, blinded trial to determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of 3K3A-APC in ischemic stroke patients. Methods The NeuroNEXT trial, RHAPSODY, used a novel continual reassessment method to determine the MTD using tiers of 120, 240, 360, and 540 ?g/kg of 3K3A-APC. After intravenous tissue plasminogen activator, intra-arterial mechanical thrombectomy, or both, patients were randomized to 1 of the 4 doses or placebo. Vasculoprotection was assessed as microbleed and intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) rates. Results Between January 2015 and July 2017, we treated 110 patients. Demographics resembled a typical stroke population. The MTD was the highest-dose 3K3A-APC tested, 540 ?g/kg, with an estimated toxicity rate of 7%. There was no difference in prespecified ICH rates. In exploratory analyses, 3K3A-APC reduced ICH rates compared to placebo from 86.5% to 67.4% in the combined treatment arms (p = 0.046) and total hemorrhage volume from an average of 2.1 ± 5.8 ml in placebo to 0.8 ± 2.1 ml in the combined treatment arms (p = 0.066). Interpretation RHAPSODY is the first trial of a neuroprotectant for acute ischemic stroke in a trial design allowing thrombectomy, thrombolysis, or both. The MTD was 540 ?g/kg for the PAR1 active cytoprotectant, 3K3A-APC. A trend toward lower hemorrhage rate in an exploratory analysis requires confirmation. Clinical Trial Registration Clinical Trial Registration-URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT02222714. ANN NEUROL 2019;85:125?136.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Duncan, Jill
AU  - Brown, Nathan J
AU  - Hughes, James A
AU  - Trudgett, Scott
AU  - Crilly, Julia
AU  - Rothwell, Sean
AU  - Rosengren, David
TI  - Security interventions are frequently undocumented in emergency department clinical notes
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 31
IS  - 5
SN  - 1742-6731
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.13257
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.13257
SP  - 797
EP  - 804
KW  - emergency medical service
KW  - emergency medicine
KW  - health information systems
KW  - medical records
KW  - workplace violence
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Objective To compare the documentation of security interventions in ED presentations between clinical notes and security records. Methods Presentations (n?=?680) were randomly selected from all ED presentations to a public tertiary referral hospital in Queensland, Australia between April 2016 and August 2017 that were perceived by the treating clinician as alcohol-related. Retrospective data, manually extracted from clinical notes and the security service database, were compared for the documentation of any security interventions. Security interventions were defined as observation without physical contact, verbal de-escalation or physical restraint by security officers. Results Forty-one presentations had security interventions documented in the security services database and, of those, 20 (48.8%) had documentation in the clinical notes. Patients who required security interventions were admitted to hospital in higher proportions compared with those who did not (73.2% vs 26.8%, respectively, P?<?0.0001). Conclusion The rate of documentation of security interventions in clinical notes was less than 50%. Documentation of critical information, including alerts and risks, in the clinical notes is an essential component of communication that the multi-disciplinary team use to ensure patient safety. Strategies aimed at improving the documentation of security interventions in clinical notes will help to optimise risk management and the safety of patients, staff and visitors along the continuum of care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Johnson, Philippa
AU  - Beltran, Elsa
AU  - Dennis, Ruth
AU  - Taeymans, Olivier
TI  - MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING CHARACTERISTICS OF SUSPECTED VERTEBRAL INSTABILITY ASSOCIATED WITH FRACTURE OR SUBLUXATION IN ELEVEN DOGS
JO  - Veterinary Radiology & Ultrasound
JA  - Veterinary Radiology & Ultrasound
VL  - 53
IS  - 5
SN  - 1058-8183
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1740-8261.2012.01959.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1740-8261.2012.01959.x
SP  - 552
EP  - 559
KW  - canine
KW  - fracture
KW  - MRI
KW  - subluxation
KW  - trauma
KW  - vertebra
PY  - 2012
AB  - The purpose of this study was to describe the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics of suspected instability in dogs with vertebral fractures or subluxations. Eleven dogs that had MRI examinations of the spine prior to surgical stabilization of vertebral fractures and/or subluxations were included in the study. Nine dogs also had survey radiographs. Four dogs had cervical fracture or fracture-subluxation and presented with tetraplegia with intact nociception (n = 2) or nonambulatory tetraparesis (n = 2). Seven dogs had thoracolumbar fracture-subluxation or subluxation and presented with paraplegia with intact nociception (n = 5) or nonambulatory paraparesis (n = 2). A three-compartment model was applied to the interpretation of both the radiographic and MRI studies. Radiography identified compartmental disruption consistent with spinal instability in seven out of the nine cases radiographed. In MRI studies, rupture of the supportive soft tissue structures and/or fracture in at least two compartments could be visualized. Nine cases had spinal cord changes on MRI including signal intensity changes, swelling, compression, and intramedullary hemorrhage. Paravertebral muscle intensity changes were also visible at each trauma site. Magnetic resonance imaging provided helpful information on the location and extent of damage to supportive soft tissue structures and enabled assessment of spinal cord injury in this group of dogs with surgically confirmed vertebral fractures and subluxations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bjarnason, Bolli
AU  - Flosadottir, Ellen
TI  - P72 Pigmented patch-test substance and laser Doppler perfusion imaging
JO  - Contact Dermatitis
VL  - 50
IS  - 3
SN  - 0105-1873
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.00309hb.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.00309hb.x
SP  - 205
EP  - 205
PY  - 2004
AB  - Objective:? To investigate if pigment of a dark patch-test substance may affect assessment of perfusion with the laser Doppler imaging technique. Materials:? 13 subjects who previously patch-tested positive with 25% balsam of Peru in petrolatum were re-tested with the same test substance and petrolatum controls applied directly by transparent foils and with much weaker and less pigmented serial doses tested with polyester squares. Readings of perfusion were performed through the test substances and the transparent foils at time intervals up to 4 days while tests were applied and for 5 days following detachment of tests. The instrument set-up of the LDPI was the same as we have suggested for non-pigmented patch-test substances tested on white skin. Results:? Results show that pigment remnants following detachment of the dark pigmented and pasty test substance containing the petrolatum vehicle were prone to affect perfusion assessments by masking detection of perfusion of parts of test sites. A real masking effect is supported by a similar effect with readings of the same tests while they were applied and by no such observable effect with the petrolatum controls or the non-pasty and much less pigmented squares. Conclusion:? The results show that pigment of patch-test substances may affect perfusion assessments with the instrument set-up suggested for non-pigmented substances.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Brown, Erin A.
AU  - De Young, Alexandra
AU  - Kimble, Roy
AU  - Kenardy, Justin
TI  - The role of parental acute psychological distress in paediatric burn re-epithelialization
JO  - British Journal of Health Psychology
JA  - Br J Health Psychol
VL  - 24
IS  - 4
SN  - 1359-107X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bjhp.12384
DO  - doi:10.1111/bjhp.12384
SP  - 876
EP  - 895
KW  - parenting
KW  - post-traumatic stress
KW  - pain
KW  - anxiety
KW  - guilt
KW  - accidents and injuries
KW  - depression
KW  - coping
KW  - wound healing
PY  - 2019
AB  - Objectives Following a paediatric burn, parents commonly experience high levels of acute psychological distress, which has been shown to increase child psychological distress as well as child procedural distress. The influence of psychological stress and perceived pain on wound healing has been demonstrated in several laboratory and medical populations. This paper investigates the influence of parental acute psychological distress and procedural behaviour on the child's rate of re-epithelialization, after controlling for child procedural distress. Design A prospective observational study with longitudinal outcome. Methods Eighty-three parents of children 1?6 years old reported acute psychological distress (post-traumatic stress symptoms [PTSS], guilt, pre-procedural fear, general anxiety/depression symptoms) in relation to their child's burn. A researcher observed parent?child behaviour at the first dressing change, and parents and nurses reported child procedural distress (pre-, peak-, and post-procedural pain and fear). These variables, along with demographic and injury information, were tested for predicting time to re-epithelialization. Date of re-epithelialization was determined by the treating consultant. Results Days to re-epithelialization ranged from 3 to 35 days post-injury. A hierarchical multiple regression analysis found wound depth and size significantly accounted for 28% of the variance in time to re-epithelialization. In Block 2, child peak-procedural pain significantly accounted for 6% additional variance. In Block 3, parental PTSS significantly accounted for 5% additional variance. Conclusions Parental PTSS appears to be an important but under-recognized factor that may influence their child's burn re-epithelialization. Further investigation is required to understand the mechanisms contributing to this association. Statement of contribution What is already known on this subject? Psychological stress delays wound healing, and this relationship has been found in paediatric burn populations with procedural pain. Parental psychological stress is often present after a child's burn and is related to the child's procedural coping and distress. What does this study add? Parental post-traumatic stress is related to delayed child burn re-epithelialization. This association is in addition to procedural pain delaying re-epithelialization.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hung, Ning
AU  - Hsiao, Ching-Hsi
AU  - Yang, Ching-Sheng
AU  - Lin, Hsin-Chiung
AU  - Yeh, Lung-Kun
AU  - Fan, Yun-Chen
AU  - Sun, Pei-Lun
TI  - Colletotrichum keratitis: A rare yet important fungal infection of human eyes
JO  - Mycoses
JA  - Mycoses
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 0933-7407
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/myc.13058
DO  - doi:10.1111/myc.13058
KW  - Colletotrichum gloeosporioides
KW  - Colletotrichum keratitis
KW  - Colletotrichum truncatum
KW  - multi-locus phylogenetic analysis
KW  - taxonomy
AB  - Summary Background Colletotrichum is a rare cause of human infection. Previous reports about Colletotrichum keratitis were limited, and most diagnoses from past reports were based on morphological distinction, which could have led to underestimation of the prevalence of Colletotrichum species. Objective We reported phylogenetic analysis, clinical feature and treatment outcome of molecularly diagnosed Colletotrichum keratitis in our hospital. Patients/Methods We recruited 65 patients with culture-proven filamentous fungal keratitis between January 1, 2015 and December 30, 2018. Through molecular sequencing including internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and multi-locus phylogenetic analysis of fungal DNA, seven patients were verified as infected with Colletotrichum species, and their medical records were reviewed to determine the clinical characteristics. Results Six of seven patients had predisposing factors including trauma (5) and immunosuppressive status (1). Six isolates were initially misidentified as other fungi through morphological identification. ITS sequencing identified the isolates belonged to two species complex (SC): C. truncatum and C. gloeosporioides; multi-locus phylogenetic analysis enabled species identification including C. tropicale (3), C. fructicola (2), C. truncatum (1) and C. fusiforme (1). Five patients with C. gloeosporioides SC responded well to medical treatment and two patients with C truncatum SC underwent evisceration because of either no visual potential or intractable pain. Conclusions The molecular approach provides accurate diagnosis and raises epidemiological awareness of Colletotrichum keratitis. Through multi-locus phylogenetic analysis, we report the human infections caused by C. tropicale, C. fructicola and C. fusiforme. We also highlight the different clinical outcomes between C. gloeosporioides SC and C. truncatum SC.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tjemsland, Lars
AU  - Søreide, Jon Arne
AU  - Malt, Ulrik Fredrik
TI  - Traumatic distress symptoms in early breast cancer. II: Outcome six weeks post surgery
JO  - Psycho-Oncology
JA  - Psycho‐Oncology
VL  - 5
IS  - 4
SN  - 1057-9249
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1099-1611(199612)5:4<295::AID-PON234>3.0.CO;2-9
DO  - doi:10.1002/(SICI)1099-1611(199612)5:4<295::AID-PON234>3.0.CO;2-9
SP  - 295
EP  - 303
PY  - 1996
AB  - Abstract One hundred and six consecutive patients with a confirmed diagnosis of breast cancer were studied before and after surgery with a clinical psychiatric interview and questionnaires (Impact of Event Scale, General Health Questionnaire and Clinical Global Impression scale). The traumatic stress response after six weeks was related to sociodemographic factors, premorbid health problems, negative life events and clinical-oncological parameters. Symptoms of traumatic distress were significantly reduced post-surgery compared to acutely, and most so among patients with no premorbid health problems and negative life events according to pre-surgery interview and self-report data. Eighteen percent of the patients reported a high level (>19) of intrusive symptoms and 14%, avoidance symptoms. Patients with premorbid impairment in work, family and social functioning and patients who during the last year had experienced the death of a close relative or a serious illness other than cancer showed the greatest distress. Previous consultations for nervous problems, age, marital status, stage of disease, type of surgery (breast-conserving versus mastectomy) and adjuvant cytostatic treatment did not influence the traumaticstress response six weeks after surgery. The level of acute posttraumatic stress response to breast cancer surgery seems best predicted by premorbid variables.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Talvik, Inga
AU  - Männamaa, Mairi
AU  - Jüri, Piret
AU  - Leito, Kaja
AU  - Põder, Haide
AU  - Hämarik, Malle
AU  - Kool, Pille
AU  - Talvik, Tiina
TI  - Outcome of infants with inflicted traumatic brain injury (shaken baby syndrome) in Estonia
JO  - Acta Paediatrica
VL  - 96
IS  - 8
SN  - 0803-5253
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1651-2227.2007.00362.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1651-2227.2007.00362.x
SP  - 1164
EP  - 1168
KW  - Inflicted brain injury
KW  - Shaken baby syndrome
KW  - Outcome
KW  - Child abuse
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract This is a population-based prospective study to identify the long-term outcome of children with inflicted traumatic brain injury (ITBI). Twenty-two survivors were identified and followed up. Only 2 of 22 had no developmental problems at follow-up, 20 of 22 children were having different developmental problems, among them 3 of 22 were severely handicapped. Psychological tests passed 17 of 22, 5 did not pass due to severe handicap (3 children) or were too young (2 patients). Epilepsy was found in 7 of 22, being intractable in 3 cases. Serious motor problems were identified in 5 of 22. Ophthalmologic problems were found in 4 of 22. The most important predictor of adverse outcome was young age at the time of the insult. Conclusion: the outcome of these potentially healthy children is poor. The key question is prevention. Health care professionals should be more concerned about these problems.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Alanko, Kristiina
AU  - Jolanki, R
TI  - P59 Patch test results to plant extracts and chemicals
JO  - Contact Dermatitis
VL  - 50
IS  - 3
SN  - 0105-1873
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309go.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309go.x
SP  - 200
EP  - 200
PY  - 2004
AB  - Objective and methods:? We review patch test results from two special patch test series for plant allergens, ?plant extracts? and ?allergenic plant chemicals?, provided by Prof. Hausen (Germany) and tested in 1992?2003. The standard series contained Sesquiterpene-lactone mix (SL mix) since 1993 (3/1998?10/1999 excluded) and Compositae mix since 3/1998. We present the cases where either SL mix or Compositae mix gave an allergic reaction and where, in addition, the series of plant extracts was tested. Results:? SL mix and Compositae mix were tested to 900 patients. Among them, plant extracts were tested in 122 and plant chemicals in 104 cases. 30 patients had an allergic reaction to Compositae mix and 17 to SL mix as well. In the plant extract series, there were more than 5 allergic reactions to feverfew(21), true chamomile(21), arnica(18), chrysanthemum(18), laurel bay leaf(13), tansy(12), gaillardia(9), yarrow(8) and pot marigold(7). In the plant chemical series, there were 9 allergic reactions to parthenolide and single reactions to primin, chlorophorin and Mansonone A. Conclusions:? Compositae mix gave a positive test reaction always together with SL mix, which gave a positive reaction in only part of these cases. The concentration of Compositae mix was lowered from 6% to 3% in 1/1999 because of cases of active sensitisation. The lower concentration seems to be reliable for detecting allergy, although it still causes active sensitisation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reeves, Elizabeth A.
AU  - Humphreys, Janice C.
TI  - Describing the healthcare experiences and strategies of women survivors of violence
JO  - Journal of Clinical Nursing
JA  - J Clin Nurs
VL  - 27
IS  - 5-6
SN  - 0962-1067
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jocn.14152
DO  - doi:10.1111/jocn.14152
SP  - 1170
EP  - 1182
KW  - intimate partner violence
KW  - nursing practice
KW  - nursing research
KW  - qualitative descriptive
KW  - sexual abuse
KW  - trauma-informed care
KW  - trauma-informed practice
KW  - violence against women
KW  - women's health
PY  - 2018
AB  - Aim and Objective The purpose of this study was to develop knowledge on women survivors' healthcare experiences and strategies. Background Survivors of traumatic life events are at an increased risk for an array of negative health consequences, which can be complicated when distressing healthcare experiences act as a barrier to accessing needed care. Implications for trauma-informed and sensitive practice are well established, but evidence to date on survivors' healthcare experiences and patient engagement is limited. Design This study utilized individual interviews and qualitative description methods. Methods Fourteen participants completed a demographic questionnaire and one semistructured interview focused on their exposure to violence, healthcare experiences and strategies for navigating health care. Thematic analysis in alignment with qualitative description methods was used to analyse interview transcripts and identify themes. Results Participants in this study reported a variety of traumatic life experiences, ranging from childhood sexual abuse and intimate partner violence to severe car accidents. Experiencing a multiplicity of trauma sometimes complicated participants' later healthcare experiences. Although participants described ways in which providers helped them attain positive care experiences, they also acknowledged that limitations of the healthcare system could make trauma-informed practices difficult to implement. Participants described strategies they use to prepare for, navigate and recover after healthcare encounters including selecting providers, bringing support persons to appointments and engaging in relaxing activities after appointments. Conclusions Participants emphasised the importance of trusting and equitable provider?patient relationships and described several ways they prepare for, cope with and care for themselves after difficult healthcare experiences. Descriptive data on the patient engagement behaviours of survivors of violence is a unique contribution of this study to existing research. Relevance to clinical practice Findings from this study indicate the importance of comprehensive trauma history screening during health assessments, development of trusting and mutually respectful provider?patient relationships and provider training programmes focused on trauma-informed care practices.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lee, Sang-Kwon
AU  - Yoon, Sooa
AU  - Kim, Cheolhyun
AU  - Choi, Jihye
TI  - Triple-phased mesenteric CT angiography using a test bolus technique for evaluation of the mesenteric vasculature and small intestinal wall contrast enhancement in dogs
JO  - Veterinary Radiology & Ultrasound
JA  - Vet Radiol Ultrasound
VL  - 60
IS  - 5
SN  - 1058-8183
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vru.12781
DO  - doi:10.1111/vru.12781
SP  - 493
EP  - 501
KW  - bowel wall
KW  - canine
KW  - dynamic CT study
KW  - mesenteric vessels
KW  - test bolus
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Computed tomography angiography is widely used for the assessment of various mesenteric vascular and bowel diseases in humans. However, there are only few studies that describe CT angiography application to mesenteric vessels in dogs. In this prospective, experimental, exploratory study, the mesenteric vasculature and enhancement pattern of the intestinal wall were evaluated on triple-phase CT angiography, and improvement of the visibility of vasculature was assessed on multiplanar reformation, maximum intensity projection, and volume rendering technique. After test bolus scanning at the level of the cranial mesenteric artery arising from the aorta, mesenteric CT angiography was performed in 10 healthy, male, Beagle dogs. Scan delay was set based on time-to-attenuation curves, drawn by placing the regions of interest over the aorta, intestinal wall, and cranial mesenteric vein. Visualization and enhancement of mesenteric arteries and veins were evaluated with multiplanar reformation, maximum intensity projection, and volume rendering techniques. The degree of intestinal wall enhancement was assessed on the transverse images in precontrast, arterial, intestinal, and venous phases. Pure arterial images were obtained in the arterial phase. Venous phase images allowed good portal vascular mapping. All CT angiography images were of high quality, allowing for excellent visualization of the anatomy of mesenteric vasculature including the small branches, particularly on maximum intensity projection and volume rendering technique. Distinct contrast enhancement of the intestinal wall was observed in both intestinal and venous phases. Findings indicated that this technique is feasible for the evaluation of mesenteric circulation in dogs.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Olaleye, D
AU  - Perkins, BA
AU  - Bril, V
TI  - Evaluation of three screening tests and a risk assessment model for diagnosing peripheral neuropathy in the diabetes clinic
JO  - Journal of the Peripheral Nervous System
JA  - Journal of the Peripheral Nervous System
VL  - 7
IS  - 2
SN  - 1085-9489
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1529-8027.2002.02011_11.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1529-8027.2002.02011_11.x
SP  - 137
EP  - 137
PY  - 2002
AB  - OBJECTIVE: With the aim of evaluating predictive power, three simple screening tests as alternates to nerve conduction tests for diagnosing diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) were investigated. Results of the screening tests, along with the subjects' demographic and clinical characteristics, were planned as the variables for the development of a risk assessment tool for predicting DPN. DESIGN: This is a cross-sectional multi-group comparison study. The study utilized a predictive model derived from one subset of the study population, and prospectively tested in the other subset to predict the presence of neuropathy. SETTING: Diabetic Neuropathy Research Clinic of the Toronto General Hospital and University Health Network in Toronto, Ontario, Canada from June 1998 to August 1999. Sample population: data come from 478 subjects consisting of non-diabetic reference subjects, and patients with type I and type 2 diabetes mellitus. OUTCOME MEASURES: Nerve conduction studies (NCS) comprised the primary defined outcome. The three screening sensory tests examined in the study were the Semmes-Weinstein 10 g monofilament examination (SWME), superficial pain sensation, and vibration by the on-off method. RESULTS: The three screening tests are significantly and positively correlated with NCS. An increase in the number of insensate responses in the screening test is associated with an increase in the abnormal NCS score. The strength of the association between NCS and each sensory test was greater when the neuropathy severity stage of the subject was added to the model. Both the SWME and vibration by the on-off method tests demonstrated sufficient statistical power to differentiate non-diabetic control subjects from subjects with diabetes, as well as to differentiate subjects with diabetes with and without neuropathy. These two tests, when compared with NCS, also demonstrated acceptable diagnostic performance characteristics in terms of high sensitivity and specificity, total number of correctly predicted cases, and receiver-operating characteristic curves. CONCLUSION: This data, through the development of a model involving training and validation sets, demonstrates that the knowledge of clinical risk factors alters the interpretation of sensory tests for DPN. This finding lends further support to the validity of simple sensory testing maneuvers in the conditional diagnosis of DPN. We recommend annual screening with either the SWME or vibration by the on-off method in the primary care and diabetes clinics.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Shklovsky, Viktor M.
AU  - Zotova, Lybov I.
AU  - Malyukova, Natalia G.
AU  - Mamicheva, Elena D.
AU  - Petrushevsky, Alexey G.
AU  - Mayorova, Larisa A.
AU  - Syrnikova, Bela A.
TI  - A fight for life and dignity: A case of massive traumatic brain injury and the paths for treatment and neurorehabilitation
JO  - PsyCh Journal
JA  - Psych J
VL  - 5
IS  - 1
SN  - 2046-0252
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pchj.127
DO  - doi:10.1002/pchj.127
SP  - 48
EP  - 56
KW  - aphasia
KW  - apraxia
KW  - brain injury
KW  - follow-up
KW  - neurorehabilitation
PY  - 2016
AB  - We present a clinical case of treatment and neurorehabilitation of a patient with severe neurological deficit due to extensive traumatic lesion of the left hemisphere of the brain. Until recently, such cases were considered incurable and remained marginalized throughout their lives. This clinical case illustrates the compensatory brain possibilities under long-term integrated multidisciplinary treatment and neurorehabilitation with mandatory application of medical, medico-psychological, medico-pedagogical, and medico-social methods, the importance and intensity of which vary at different stages of the disease. This process is addressed in the individual patient. The greatest efficiency of the neurorehabilitation treatment of patients with severe consequences of a stroke and traumatic brain injury can be reached under the following conditions: the earliest possible start of rehabilitation with a sufficient duration and intensity; interdisciplinary and integrative rehabilitation process at various stages of rehabilitation treatment; systematic clinical and neuropsychological diagnostics; systematic monitoring of somatic, neurological, psychiatric, and psychological condition of the patient; assistance with sociopsychological and labor issues; and problem-solving support.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ruf, Martina
AU  - Schauer, Maggie
AU  - Neuner, Frank
AU  - Catani, Claudia
AU  - Schauer, Elisabeth
AU  - Elbert, Thomas
TI  - Narrative exposure therapy for 7- to 16-year-olds: A randomized controlled trial with traumatized refugee children
JO  - Journal of Traumatic Stress
JA  - J. Traum. Stress
VL  - 23
IS  - 4
SN  - 0894-9867
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jts.20548
DO  - doi:10.1002/jts.20548
SP  - 437
EP  - 445
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract The authors examined the effectiveness of narrative exposure therapy for children (KIDNET) in treating posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in refugee children living in exile. Twenty-six children traumatized by organized violence were randomly assigned to KIDNET or to a waiting list. Significant treatment by time interactions on all PTSD-relevant variables indicated that the KIDNET group, but not the controls, showed a clinically significant improvement in symptoms and functioning. Success of the KIDNET group remained stable at 12-month follow-up. This study confirms previous findings that, if left untreated, PTSD in children may persist for an extended period. However, it also shows that it is possible to effectively treat chronic PTSD and restore functioning in traumatized refugee children in only 8 treatment sessions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bjarnason, Bolli
AU  - Xu, H
AU  - Elmets, CA
TI  - P28 Interleukin-8 from keratinocytes can be used to test for contact allergy
JO  - Contact Dermatitis
VL  - 50
IS  - 3
SN  - 0105-1873
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309fj.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309fj.x
SP  - 188
EP  - 188
PY  - 2004
AB  - Objective:? To investigate whether secretion of interleukin-8 (IL-8) proteins by keratinocytes following in vitro exposure to a contact allergen can be used to detect contact allergy. Methods:? Suction blisters were made on skin of allergic and anergic subjects to urushiol, the contact allergen of poison ivy. Keratinocyte cultures were prepared and exposed to the allergen in vitro. Controls were the allergen solvent. Variable allergen concentrations, allergen exposure times and cell culture times were used. At the end of each culture time, IL-8 RNA and protein of the culture supernatants were analyzed by PCR and ELISA. Results:? The concentration of IL-8 in the supernatants proved to be a successful way to distinguish between subjects who patch tested positive with a non-toxic concentration of urushiol and subjects who tested negative. In the allergic subjects, a correlation was established between the dose of the allergen and the IL-8 protein concentration in the supernatants. Conclusions:? In vitro testing of contact allergies in patients makes possible an objective assessment of their allergic status without causing a booster effect or risking active sensitizations. The results indicate that the method may be used as an alternative method to animal models for testing consumer products before their marketing, thus avoiding ethical problems and problems related to interpretation of tests because of biological differences between animals and humans.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Maitra, Subir R
AU  - Wang, Shiying
AU  - El-Maghrabi, M Raafat
AU  - Henry, Mark C
TI  - Regulation of Liver and Kidney Glucose-6-phosphatase Gene Expression in Hemorrhage and Resuscitation
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
VL  - 7
IS  - 7
SN  - 1069-6563
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1553-2712.2000.tb02259.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1553-2712.2000.tb02259.x
SP  - 731
EP  - 738
KW  - phentolamine
KW  - propranolol
KW  - cyclic somatostatin
KW  - insulin
KW  - corticosterone
KW  - glucagon
KW  - glucose-6-phosphatase
KW  - lactated Ringer's
KW  - rat
KW  - mRNA
PY  - 2000
AB  - Abstract. The authors have recently demonstrated that increased gene expression of glucose-6-phosphatase (Glu-6-Pase) in hemorrhagic hypotension (HH) and following lactated Ringer's resuscitation (LR) is associated with a decrease in insulin and an increase in corticosterone concentrations. Objective: To evaluate the in-vivo role of hormones the authors used insulin (IN), phentolamine and propranolol (PP) as an adrenergic blocker, and cyclic somatostatin (CS) as a glucagon blocker to prevent the induction of Glu-6-Pase gene expression in liver and kidney following HH and LR. Methods: Hemorrhage was induced in fasted anesthetized rats, and the reduction of blood pressure to 40 mm Hg for a duration of 30 minutes was accomplished by withdrawal or infusion of shed blood. The resuscitated group underwent hemorrhage followed by fluid resuscitation with lactated Ringer's solution. Results: Neither PP nor CS treatment could block the induction of Glu-6-Pase messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) following either HH or LR. However, the administration of IN significantly prevented the increase of Glu-6-Pase mRNA level and activity in both liver and kidney following HH and LR. This was associated with a normalization of plasma glucose, corticosterone, and glucagon levels and glucose-6-phosphate concentrations in liver and kidney toward prehemorrhage levels. Conclusions: These results indicate that in-vivo treatment with insulin during hemorrhagic hypotension and resuscitation is capable of preventing the increase in Glu-6-Pase gene expression in liver and kidney responsible for the observed hyperglycemia.
ER  - 
