
TY  - JOUR
TI  - 研修医・学生セッション
JO  - Nihon Kyukyu Igakukai Zasshi: Journal of Japanese Association for Acute Medicine
JA  - Nihon Kyukyu Igakukai Zasshi: Japanese Journal of Japanese Association for Acute Medicine
VL  - 29
IS  - 10
SN  - 1883-3772
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jja2.12346
DO  - doi:10.1002/jja2.12346
SP  - 417
EP  - 448
PY  - 2018
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ishii, Shinya
AU  - Cauley, Jane A
AU  - Greendale, Gail A
AU  - Nielsen, Carrie
AU  - Karvonen-Gutierrez, Carrie
AU  - Ruppert, Kristine
AU  - Karlamangla, Arun S
TI  - Pleiotropic Effects of Obesity on Fracture Risk: The Study of Women's Health Across the Nation
JO  - Journal of Bone and Mineral Research
JA  - J Bone Miner Res
VL  - 29
IS  - 12
SN  - 0884-0431
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbmr.2303
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbmr.2303
SP  - 2561
EP  - 2570
KW  - OBESITY
KW  - OSTEOPOROSIS
KW  - FRACTURE RISK
KW  - STRENGTH RELATIVE TO LOAD
KW  - FALL IMPACT FORCES
KW  - SOFT TISSUE PADDING
PY  - 2014
AB  - ABSTRACT Some aspects of an obese body habitus may protect against fracture risk (higher bone mineral density [BMD] and greater tissue padding), while others may augment that risk (greater impact forces during a fall). To examine these competing pathways, we analyzed data from a multisite, multiethnic cohort of 1924 women, premenopausal or early perimenopausal at baseline. Obesity was defined as baseline body mass index (BMI)?>?30?kg/m2. Composite indices of femoral neck strength relative to fall impact forces were constructed from DXA-derived bone size, BMD and body size. Incident fractures were ascertained annually during a median follow-up of 9 years. In multivariable linear regression adjusted for covariates, higher BMI was associated with higher BMD but with lower composite strength indices, suggesting that although BMD increases with greater skeletal loading, the increase is not sufficient to compensate for the increase in fall impact forces. During the follow-up, 201 women had fractures. In Cox proportional hazard analyses, obesity was associated with increased fracture hazard adjusted for BMD, consistent with greater fall impact forces in obese individuals. Adjusted for composite indices of femoral neck strength relative to fall impact forces, obesity was associated with decreased fracture hazard, consistent with a protective effect of soft tissue padding. Further adjustment for hip circumference, a surrogate marker of soft tissue padding, attenuated the obesity?fracture association. Our findings support that there are at least three major mechanisms by which obesity influences fracture risk: increased BMD in response to greater skeletal loading, increased impact forces, and greater absorption of impact forces by soft tissue padding. ? 2014 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reddy, C.
AU  - Goolam, S.
AU  - Malka, V.
TI  - GS19P VERSAJET: A NOVEL APPROACH TO DEBRIDEMENT
JO  - ANZ Journal of Surgery
VL  - 77
IS  - s1
SN  - 1445-1433
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04119_19.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04119_19.x
SP  - A30
EP  - A30
PY  - 2007
AB  - The addition of hydrosurgery into our surgical armamentarium will aim to revolutionize surgical wound debridement. Hydrosurgery (Versajet1) utilizes a high pressure fine saline jet delivered via a compact hand-piece to debride, irrigate and remove debri simultaneously. The hydrosurgery system is minimally invasive enabling debridement at the bedside, with minimal haemorrhage and analgesic requirements2. Its applications range from debridement of traumatic and non-traumatic wounds (acute and chronic), wound lavage, debridement of variable thickness burns, wound bed preparation prior to skin grafting, and flap recontouring. Complex infected wounds (necrotising fasciitis) may also be debrided with potential maximal preservation of adjacent neurovasculature and viable tissues. We present five cases involving the use of the Versajet for the debridement of three diabetic foot wounds, one venous ulcer, and one traumatic chest wound. All hydro-debridements were performed at the bedside with an average procedure time of 23 minutes (15?40 minutes), an average analgesic requirement of 10?mg morphine (5?15?mg), and with minimal encountered blood losses (including two patients on Coumarin). Only a single ward debridement procedure was required to achieve a healthy wound bed in all five patients. The Versajet enables debridement and wound bed preparation that is efficient, minimally invasive, and cost effective with reductions in hospital stay.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tyszko, C.
AU  - Bright, J. M.
AU  - Swist, S. L.
TI  - Recurrent supraventricular arrhythmias in a dog with atrial myocarditis and gastritis
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 48
IS  - 6
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2007.00337.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2007.00337.x
SP  - 335
EP  - 338
PY  - 2007
AB  - This report describes a dog with recurrent atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter associated with chronic gastritis. Although no underlying structural heart disease was apparent antemortem or on gross post-mortem examination, chronic atrial myocarditis was seen on histopathological examination. Atrial myocarditis is a recognised cause of atrial fibrillation in human beings with presumed lone fibrillation, and an association between supraventricular tachyarrhythmias and infectious agents has been made.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sunderkötter, Cord
AU  - Becker, Karsten
TI  - Frequent bacterial skin and soft tissue infections: diagnostic signs and treatment
JO  - JDDG: Journal der Deutschen Dermatologischen Gesellschaft
JA  - JDDG: Journal der Deutschen Dermatologischen Gesellschaft
VL  - 13
IS  - 6
SN  - 1610-0379
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ddg.12721
DO  - doi:10.1111/ddg.12721
SP  - 501
EP  - 526
PY  - 2015
AB  - Summary Skin and soft tissue infections rank among the most frequent infections worldwide. Classic erysipelas is defined as a non-purulent infection by beta-hemolytic streptococci. The typical signs are tender, warm, bright erythema with tongue-like extensions and early systemic symptoms such as fever or at least chills. Erysipelas always and best responds to penicillin. Limited soft tissue infection or limited cellulitis are the terms we have introduced for infections frequently caused by S. aureus and often originating from chronic wounds or acute trauma. Clinically, they are marked by tender, erythematous swelling which, unlike erysipelas, exhibit a darker red hue and is not always accompanied by fever or chills at onset. Severe cellulitis is a purulent, partially necrotic infection extending to the fascia, with general symptoms of infection, requiring surgical management in addition to antibiotics. It often fulfils criteria of so-called complicated soft tissue infections according to the definition of the FDA, due to their frequent association with e.g. severe diabetes mellitus, peripheral arterial occlusive disease or severe immunosuppression. In contrast, the rare necrotizing skin and soft tissue infections represent a distinct entity, characterized by rapid progression to ischemic necroses and shock due to special bacterial toxins. Limited cellulitis should be treated with cephalosporins group 1 or 2, or, when S.aureus is the isolated or highly likely causative agent, isoxazolyl-penicillins (exploiting their minimal selection pressure on other bacteria). For severe cellulitis, initial antibiotic treatment (mostly iv) includes ? depending on the location - agents also active against gram-negative and/or anaerobic bacteria. (e.g. clindamycine, aminopeniclilline with inhibitors of betalaktamase, fluochinolons, cephalosporines group 4). For cutaneous abscesses, drainage presents the therapy of choice. Only under certain conditions additional antibiotic therapy is required. Adherence to the diagnostic criteria and to evidence-based or consensus-derived treatment recommendations as presented herein should allow for an antibiotic therapy with a good balance of efficacy, tolerability by patients and low selection pressure for highly resistant bacteria.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dursun, Erbil
AU  - Dursun, Nigar
AU  - Ural, Canan Eksi
AU  -             Çakci:, Aytül
TI  - Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (85)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 1530-7085
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-85.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-85.x
SP  - 112
EP  - 113
PY  - 2001
AB  - Glenohumeral joint subluxation and reflex sympathetic dystrophy in hemiplegic patients. (Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, Turkey) Arch Phys Med Rehabil 1999; 81:944?946. This is a case-controlled study of the relationship between glenohumeral joint subluxation and reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) in hemiplegic patients set in an inpatient rehabilitation hospital. Thirty-five hemiplegic patients with RSD (RSD group) and 35 hemiplegic patients without RSD (non-RSD group) were included in this study. Patients with rotator cuff rupture, brachial plexus injury, or spasticity greater than stage 2 on the Ashworth scale were excluded. Both the RSD and non-RSD groups were assessed for presence and grade of subluxation from radiographs using a 5-point categorization. The degree of shoulder pain of the non-RSD group was assessed by a visual analogue scale of 10 points. Glenohumeral subluxation was found in 74.3% of the RSD group and 40% of the non-RSD group (P = 0.004). In the non-RSD group, 78.6% of the patients with subluxation and 38.1% of the patients without subluxation reported shoulder pain (P = 0.019). No correlation was found between the degree of shoulder pain and grade of subluxation in the non-RSD group (P = 0.152). Conclude that the findings suggest that shoulder subluxation may be a causative factor for RSD. Therefore, prevention and appropriate treatment of glenohumeral joint subluxation should be included in rehabilitation of hemiplegic patients. Comment by Miles Day, MD. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between shoulder subluxation in hemiplegic patients and reflex sympathetic dystrophy. They also examined if subluxation is associated with shoulder pain and the grade of subluxation in patients with subluxation and no reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD). Patients with injuries to the rotator cuff of the brachial plexus, marked spasticity, and major trauma to joint structures were excluded as these can be precipitating factors for RSD. The study noted a significantly higher presence of shoulder subluxation within the RSD group and the presence of pain was significantly high in patients with shoulder subluxation in the non-RSD group. The take home message of this article is that any measure or treatment that can be applied to the glenohumeral joint should be performed to eliminate the possibility of the patient developing RSD and subsequently hindering further rehabilitation in these patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wisdom, Alice
AU  - Eaton, Vaughn
AU  - Gordon, David
AU  - Daniel, Santhosh
AU  - Woodman, Richard
AU  - Phillips, Cameron
TI  - INITIAT-E.D.: Impact of timing of INITIation of Antibiotic Therapy on mortality of patients presenting to an Emergency Department with sepsis
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emerg Med Australas
VL  - 27
IS  - 3
SN  - 1742-6731
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.12394
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.12394
SP  - 196
EP  - 201
KW  - antibacterial agents
KW  - emergency department
KW  - mortality
KW  - sepsis
KW  - time factors
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Objectives To analyse the association between time from triage to administration of initial antibiotics and mortality in all patients presenting with sepsis to a tertiary hospital ED. Methods A retrospective review of patients presenting to the ED with sepsis from January to December 2012 was conducted at Flinders Medical Centre, South Australia. Outcome measures were: time elapsed from triage to administration of initial antibiotic therapy and in-hospital mortality. Results A total of 220 patients presented with sepsis, comprising 102 cases of uncomplicated sepsis and 118 severe sepsis. The median time to antibiotic administration was 3.5?h (interquartile range [IQR] 1.7?6.6) and in-hospital mortality was 28.6% (95% CI 22.6?34.6%). There was no association observed between delays to antibiotics and mortality in the total patient population. When stratified by presenting severity, patients with severe sepsis demonstrated a trend towards increased mortality when delays to antibiotics exceeded 6 h from triage (HR = 2.25, 95% CI 0.91?5.59, P = 0.08) in comparison with <1?h. Significant delays to antibiotic administration occurred when initial agents were charted as a ?regular medicine? (9.4?h, IQR 5.1?16.6) in comparison with a ?once only order? (3.4?h, IQR 1.7?6.7), P < 0.001. Conclusions Early administration of antibiotics specifically in patients with severe sepsis might be beneficial. Further studies within the ED are warranted to establish the effect of delayed antibiotics in a generalised sepsis cohort.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tripney, Janice
AU  - Roulstone, Alan
AU  - Vigurs, Carol
AU  - Hogrebe, Nina
AU  - Schmidt, Elena
AU  - Stewart, Ruth
TI  - Interventions to Improve the Labour Market Situation of Adults with Physical and/or Sensory Disabilities in Low- and Middle-Income Countries: A Systematic Review
JO  - Campbell Systematic Reviews
JA  - Campbell Systematic Reviews
VL  - 11
IS  - 1
SN  - 1891-1803
UR  - https://doi.org/10.4073/csr.2015.20
DO  - doi:10.4073/csr.2015.20
SP  - 1
EP  - 127
PY  - 2015
AB  - The objectives of this Campbell systematic review were: 1) To describe the range and diversity of interventions available for addressing the low labour market participation of adults with physical and/or sensory disabilities in developing country contexts. 2) To systematically identify, assess, and synthesise the evidence on the effects of interventions on labour market outcomes for disabled adults in low- and middleincome countries. As part of this, to critically analyse the evidence along the causal chain framework, linking interventions with intermediate outcomes and final impacts, and document the level/strength of evidence on potential pathways of impact using the framework. 3) To assess if effects are moderated by characteristics of the participants, interventions, and/or settings. 4) To provide an explanation for the intervention effects by examining what participants in the included studies reported about why the interventions did, or did not, work for them. A total of 14 studies met the eligibility criteria. Publication dates of included studies ranged between 1992 and 2012, with six studies published in the four-year period 2010-2013. A key finding of this review is the overall scarcity of robust evidence, as indicated by the relatively few studies that met the inclusion criteria. Although the evidence in general showed positive results, we need to be wary of drawing strong inferences from the findings of this body of literature. Not only is the number of impact evaluations limited, but most used designs in which conclusively attributing causality is not possible. Our assessment of the evidence does not allow us to develop practical suggestions on what interventions are likely to work, for whom, and when. Clearly, there is an urgent need for investment in high quality impact evaluations of interventions to support people with disabilities in accessing the labour market in low- and middle income settings. To build the evidence base further, it is therefore important that many more of the interventions currently in existence in low- and middle-income countries are rigorously evaluated, and the results are reported and disseminated widely. The methodological inconsistencies and weaknesses of the current evidence base, and specific knowledge gaps, suggest a number of future research priorities. Executive Summary BACKGROUND Disability is a development issue, with widespread poverty, inequality and violation of human rights. Recent estimates suggest that more than one billion people are living with some form of disability. Persons with disabilities are over-represented among the world's poor, and significant labour market disadvantage helps maintain the link between poverty and disability in many country contexts. The costs of disability are particularly acute in low- and middle-income countries (those with gross national income per capita of less than $12,616), where up to 80% of people with disabilities of working age can be unemployed, around twice that for their counterparts in high-income countries. When people with disabilities do work, they generally do so for longer hours and lower incomes, have fewer chances of promotion, are more likely to work in the informal labour market, and are at greater risk of becoming unemployed for longer periods. The barriers faced by people with disabilities globally in accessing and sustaining paid work is a profound social challenge. There is now growing recognition of employment as a key factor in the process of empowerment and inclusion into society, and the role of interventions to improve labour market outcomes for disabled people is receiving increased international attention. It is therefore both vital and timely to increase understanding of the impacts of available programmes, in order to ensure that they are effective in delivering positive outcomes for people with disabilities and provide value for money. Although several reviews have attempted to summarise the existing research in this area, there are a number of substantive and methodological limitations to these reviews. Thus, there is a need to systematically examine the evidence base to provide an overview of the types of interventions being used to improve employment outcomes, to identify those that are effective and ineffective, and to identify areas in which more research needs to be conducted. OBJECTIVES To describe the range and diversity of interventions available for addressing the low labour market participation of adults with physical and/or sensory disabilities in developing country contexts. To systematically identify, assess, and synthesise the evidence on the effects of interventions on labour market outcomes for disabled adults in low- and middle-income countries. As part of this, to critically analyse the evidence along the causal chain framework, linking interventions with intermediate outcomes and final impacts, and document the level/strength of evidence on potential pathways of impact using the framework. To assess if effects are moderated by characteristics of the participants, interventions, and/or settings. To provide an explanation for the intervention effects by examining what participants in the included studies reported about why the interventions did, or did not, work for them. SELECTION CRITERIA To be included in the review, studies were required to meet several eligibility criteria. First, studies must have evaluated an intervention with the means to improve the labour market situation of adults with disabilities. Such interventions could take the form of a device, policy, programme, strategy, or other type of action. Second, studies must have investigated outcomes for adults aged 16-65 years with physical and/or sensory impairments associated with disability. Third, the study setting must have been a low-or middle-income country (LMIC). Fourth, studies must have utilised one of the following: (a) randomised experimental design, (b) rigorous quasi-experimental design that used robust methods for removing biases due to non-random assignment of treatment, or (c) quasi-experimental design that used less rigorous methods for constructing the counterfactual, including uncontrolled studies. Fifth, studies must have reported at least one quantitative employment-related outcome variable. Sixth, the date of publication or reporting of the study must have been within the period 1 January 1990 to 31 December 2013. Finally, no language or form of publication restrictions was applied. SEARCH STRATEGY A systematic and comprehensive search was used to locate both published and unpublished studies. Ten major bibliographic databases were electronically searched, along with 32 specialist databases and library catalogues, and 59 websites of relevant organisations. Six journals were manually searched and search engines used. The reference lists of previous reviews and included studies were examined, and forward citation checking exercises were conducted. Finally, information was requested from authors of included studies and other relevant stakeholders. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS Each study was subject to a rigorous process of data extraction and quality assessment, conducted independently by pairs of reviewers using a coding tool specifically designed for this review. Descriptive analysis was undertaken to examine and describe data related to the characteristics of the included studies and interventions. The findings from the included studies were combined descriptively using a narrative approach to synthesis. RESULTS The literature search yielded a total of 20,417 potentially relevant reports, 479 of which were retrieved for full-text screening. A total of 14 studies met the eligibility criteria. Publication dates of included studies ranged between 1992 and 2012, with six studies published in the four-year period 2010-2013. Studies were conducted in nine different LMICs in Asia, Africa and Latin America: Bangladesh (three studies); Brazil (two studies); China (one study); India (four studies); Kenya (one study); Nigeria (one study); Philippines (one study); Vietnam (one study) and Zimbabwe (one study). The majority of studies examined outcomes for adults with physical impairments. There was variation in sample sizes. One study had a sample size greater than 500 participants, the sample size was between 251 and 500 in three studies, and the remaining ten studies had a sample size of less than 250. Different methodologies were employed to construct the counterfactual and evaluate the impacts of the interventions. The majority were uncontrolled before-and-after studies. One quasi-experiment (ex-post) utilised propensity score matching techniques and one study applied logistic regression to pre-test/post-test data. The remaining studies used a non-equivalent groups design. All 14 studies were assessed as high risk of bias. The 14 studies examined 15 different interventions grouped as follows: treatment  assistive devices and accommodations (two interventions); occupational rehabilitation services (four interventions); financial services (one intervention); and community-based rehabilitation (four interventions). Thirteen were multi-component programmes. All 15 interventions were targeted at people with disabilities, with some designed for people with a specific impairment or diagnosis. Six interventions targeted persons with specific types of physical impairment, and a further two interventions were available to adults with any type of physical impairment. Three interventions were targeted at persons with visual impairments. Finally, four interventions were available to persons with any/multiple impairments. Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) were the most common source of funding. The main aim of eight interventions was to improve employment prospects for persons with disabilities. The other interventions sought improvements in a wider range of outcomes. The interventions were designed and implemented on different scales, with the majority available over a large geographical area, such as one or more districts, provinces or regions. Information about duration of the interventions was often not reported, but typically they were available for periods of less than six months. All 14 studies measured relevant labour market outcomes and assessed the following impacts: motivation to work (one study); professional social skills (one study); employment participation (12 studies); self-employment (two studies); income (four studies) and hours worked (one study). Five studies measured additional outcomes: health-related outcome (four studies); social outcomes (five studies); and empowerment-related outcome (one study). Several studies relied solely on self-reported outcome data. The majority of study reports did not provide clear information about the timing of outcome measurement. Only one study examined longer-term outcomes, evaluating impacts after two and four years of participants entering the programme. In all 14 studies, the direction of effect was positive for the outcome variables measured. Five studies reported results of tests for statistical significance and indicated study findings were significant. Effects on motivation to work. One study measured this outcome. It investigated two interventions for visually impaired students. Effects on professional social skills. One study measured this outcome. It assessed a programme for persons with any type of physical impairment. Effects on paid employment. Twelve studies measured this outcome. Of these, seven studies evaluated different types of support for persons with physical disabilities, with five designed for people with a specific diagnosis or impairment. One study investigated an intervention for the visually impaired. The remaining four studies in this category evaluated interventions that were open to individuals with any/multiple types of impairments. Effects on self-employment. Two studies measured this outcome. Both studies evaluated interventions available to persons with any type of physical impairment. Effects on income. Four studies measured this outcome. Of these, three studies evaluated interventions designed for persons with physical disabilities. The remaining study focused on an intervention for the visually impaired. Effects on hours worked. One study measured this outcome. It evaluated a programme for persons with any type of physical impairment. Seven of the 14 included studies explored variation in treatment effects. The variables considered were gender (three studies), participants' size of business (one study), impairment severity (one study), type of intervention (one study), and duration of follow-up (two studies). Four of the seven studies tested whether results were statistically significant. Overall, these seven studies were not sufficiently similar to detect meaningful differences in outcomes. Two studies investigating occupational rehabilitation services reported participants' observations, experiences and views about why the intervention they received had worked for them. The following factors were cited: general health  cooperation in the family/community; motivation; attitudes in the workplace; attitudes in the community; and appropriateness of the training. Three studies reported participants' observations, experiences and views about why the intervention they received had not worked for them. Two examined occupational rehabilitation services and the other evaluated the provision of free wheelchairs. The following barriers to the success of the interventions were cited: discriminatory attitudes of prospective employers; attitudes of family members and/or wider community; health and well-being; physical inaccessibility (workplace and/or broader environment); lack of ?start-up? funds for self-employment; shortcomings of the training (i.e., mismatch between it and participant's skills, abilities and financial resources); lack of education and skills; and motivation. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS A key finding of this review is the overall scarcity of robust evidence, as indicated by the relatively few studies that met the inclusion criteria. Although the evidence in general showed positive results, we need to be wary of drawing strong inferences from the findings of this body of literature. Not only is the number of impact evaluations limited, but most used designs in which conclusively attributing causality is not possible. Our assessment of the evidence does not allow us to develop practical suggestions on what interventions are likely to work, for whom, and when. Clearly, there is an urgent need for investment in high quality impact evaluations of interventions to support people with disabilities in accessing the labour market in low- and middle-income settings. To build the evidence base further, it is therefore important that many more of the interventions currently in existence in low- and middle-income countries are rigorously evaluated, and the results are reported and disseminated widely. The methodological inconsistencies and weaknesses of the current evidence base, and specific knowledge gaps, suggest a number of future research priorities.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mango, Robert L.
AU  - Bugdayli, Kubra
AU  - Crowson, Cynthia S.
AU  - Drage, Lisa A.
AU  - Wetter, David A.
AU  - Lehman, Julia S.
AU  - Peters, Margot S.
AU  - Davis, Mark D.
AU  - Chowdhary, Vaidehi R.
TI  - Baseline characteristics and long-term outcomes of eosinophilic fasciitis in 89 patients seen at a single center over 20 years
JO  - International Journal of Rheumatic Diseases
JA  - Int J Rheum Dis
VL  - 23
IS  - 2
SN  - 1756-1841
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1756-185X.13770
DO  - doi:10.1111/1756-185X.13770
SP  - 233
EP  - 239
KW  - eosinophilia
KW  - eosinophilic fasciitis
KW  - sclerosing disorder
KW  - thickened skin
PY  - 2020
AB  - Abstract Aim Eosinophilic fasciitis (EF) is a rare, fibrosing disorder of skin and subcutaneous tissue. This study was undertaken to describe its clinical and laboratory features and identify prognostic factors associated with outcome. Methods We conducted a retrospective review of all EF patients evaluated at our institution from 1 January1997 to 30 December 2016. Kaplan-Meier methods were used to determine treatment response rates over time. Potential associations between baseline characteristics and complete response were examined using Cox models adjusted for age and sex. Time-dependent covariates were used to examine treatment effects. Results We identified 89 EF patients, with a female-to-male ratio of 1:1. Clinical features included groove sign in 26 (29%), peau d'orange/dimpling in 22 (25%), inflammatory arthritis in 9 (10%) and muscle weakness in 9 (10%). Aldolase was elevated in 11/36 (31%). Complete response rate was 60% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 35-75) at 3 years. Diagnostic delay was inversely associated with treatment response (hazards ratio: 0.84 per 1 month increase; 95% CI: 0.73-0.98). No baseline characteristics correlated with treatment response, but a trend toward positive association of elevated aldolase, hypergammaglobulinemia and presence of hematologic disorders was noted. Methotrexate was the most commonly used immunosuppressant in 79%, hydroxychloroquine in 45%, mycophenolate mofetil in 18% and azathioprine in 8%. No single immunosuppressant agent was associated with a superior response during treatment. Conclusions EF is characterized by relatively high response rates. Consensus diagnostic criteria, standardized management algorithms, and large prospective multi-center cohorts are needed to develop an evidence-directed approach to this challenging condition.
ER  - 

AU  - Love, Lydia
AU  - Thompson, Dave
C7  - pp. 105-114
TI  - Nontraditional Analgesic Agents
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118999196.ch8
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118999196.ch8
SP  - 105-114
KW  - antiepileptic drugs (AEDs)
KW  - gabapentinoids
KW  - ketamine
KW  - N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor
KW  - nontraditional analgesic agents
KW  - norepinephrine (NE)
KW  - serotonin
PY  - 2020
AB  - Summary The pharmacological mechanisms of nontraditional analgesic agents are diverse and are the focus of much current research activity. This chapter reviews nontraditional analgesics, and is arranged according to currently accepted pharmacological mechanisms. Since the 1960s, antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including carbamazepine, gabapentin, and pregabalin, have been used to manage neuropathic pain in human patients. Gabapentin has received the most attention as a nontraditional analgesic in veterinary medicine, and the chapter focuses on the gabapentinoids. There are many drugs in current use that have antagonist activity at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, including ketamine and tiletamine, amantadine, dextromethorphan, nitrous oxide, xenon, and some opioids, including methadone. The chapter discusses ketamine and the oral NMDA antagonist amantadine, The neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine (NE) are fundamental to many central nervous system activities, including vigilance, hunger, mood, and nociception. Mounting evidence indicates that NE systems may influence analgesia to a greater degree than serotonin pathways.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sillesen, Henrik
AU  - Fuster, Valentin
TI  - Predicting Coronary Heart Disease: From Framingham Risk Score to Ultrasound Bioimaging
JO  - Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine: A Journal of Translational and Personalized Medicine
JA  - Mt Sinai J Med
VL  - 79
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/msj.21343
DO  - doi:10.1002/msj.21343
SP  - 654
EP  - 663
KW  - 3-dimensional ultrasound
KW  - cardiovascular disease
KW  - carotid intima-media thickness
KW  - carotid plaque
KW  - prediction of risk
KW  - ultrasound imaging.
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Atherosclerosis is the leading cause of death and disabling disease. Whereas risk factors are well known and constitute therapeutic targets, they are not useful for prediction of risk of future myocardial infarction, stroke, or death. Therefore, methods to identify atherosclerosis itself have been tested and found useful (ie, coronary calcium detection by computed tomography scanning, reduction in ankle-brachial index, and ultrasound scanning of the carotid arteries). This review will focus on the latter technique. Detection of thickened carotid intima-media by ultrasound has been used in many large epidemiological studies, but although it has been found to be associated with increased risk of cardiovascular death, its clinical utility is limited. Detection of carotid plaque has, on the other hand, been found to be associated with a substantial risk of future events. Similarly, detection of plaque in the femoral arteries is associated with increased risk, and plaque in the femoral as well as carotid arteries predicts even higher risk. Furthermore, quantification of plaque size (plaque area), such as quantification of amount of coronary calcium on computed tomography scanning, improves predictability?the larger the plaques, the higher the risk. So far, studies using ultrasound all have been performed with 2-dimensional ultrasound imaging. Recently, 3-dimensional ultrasound imaging has been introduced, which allows for more accurate quantification of atherosclerosis. Small studies pioneering its use have indicated the utility of measuring changes in vessel-wall volume and plaque volume with respect to treatment effect. The High-Risk Plaque Initiative BioImage Study is currently investigating the predictive value of total carotid plaque volume with respect to prediction of future cardiovascular events. Mt Sinai J Med 79:654?663, 2012. ? 2012 Mount Sinai School of Medicine
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Berkey, Douglas B.
AU  - Scannapieco, Frank A.
TI  - Medical considerations relating to the oral health of older adults
JO  - Special Care in Dentistry
JA  - SPECIAL CARE IN DENTISTRY
VL  - 33
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/scd.12027
DO  - doi:10.1111/scd.12027
SP  - 164
EP  - 176
KW  - geriatric dentistry
KW  - general health
KW  - epidemiology
PY  - 2013
AB  - ABSTRACT This review paper was written in conjunction with the 2010 National Coalition Consensus Conference: Oral Health of Vulnerable Older Adults and Persons with Disabilities. It provides an overview of specific medical considerations involved with dental diagnosis and treatment of this ?at risk population.? The role of oral inflammation is referenced within the context of the oral/systemic paradigm (e.g., diabetes, cardiovascular disease/stroke, respiratory diseases, and cognition). Oral manifestations associated with multi-organ diseases, tobacco/alcohol use, and medications are additionally discussed. Finally, the paper encourages development of interdisciplinary approaches to positively influence health outcomes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Allerton, F.
AU  - Jeffery, N.
TI  - Prescription rebellion: reduction of antibiotic use by small animal veterinarians
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.13098
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.13098
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rahman, M.H.
AU  - McGoldrick, M.D.
AU  - Haqqie, S.S.
TI  - Acute hemolysis and renal failure associated with charcoal hemoperfusion for valproic acid intoxication
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ba.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ba.x
SP  - 89
EP  - 89
PY  - 2005
AB  - Charcoal hemoperfusion is an effective treatment in acute drug intoxication with small volume of distribution. For certain drugs, clearance rates are higher with hemoperfusion than hemodialysis. We describe a patient with severe valproic acid overdose who developed severe hemolysis and acute renal failure related to charcoal hemoperfusion treatment. A 50-year-old female was admitted to the hospital following valproic acid overdose. Initial valproic acid level was 73.6?mg/L, and she was treated with oral activated charcoal. Four hours later she developed mental status changes with valproic acid level at 490.9?mg/L and prolonged QT interval. Charcoal hemoperfusion was started with blood flow rate 400?ml/min. Patient developed bleeding with evidence of severe Before(*C.H.) After (C.H.) Hemoglobin 12.1?gm/DL 7.6?gm/DL Hematocrit 35.5?gm/DL 21.1?gm/DL Platelet count 268,000 tho/ul 43,000?tho/ul L.D.H 90?IU/L 2494?IU/L Valproic Acid 490.9?mg/L 74.1?mg/L * C.H. (Charcoal Hemoperfusion) Blood ? evidence of massive hemolysis intra-vascular hemolysis, shown in table (no evidence of HUS/TTP). She received transfusion of packed red blood cells, platelets, and fibrin. Over the next few days she developed oligouric acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis for 2 weeks. Eventually hemolysis resolved and the renal function improved (kidney biopsy was consistent with acute tubular necrosis). To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of severe intravascular hemolysis occurring during the charcoal hemoperfusion treatment. Etiology includes mechanical trauma to the red cells, probably related to high blood flow rate through the charcoal column.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Daigo, Kenji
AU  - Inforzato, Antonio
AU  - Barajon, Isabella
AU  - Garlanda, Cecilia
AU  - Bottazzi, Barbara
AU  - Meri, Seppo
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
TI  - Pentraxins in the activation and regulation of innate immunity
JO  - Immunological Reviews
JA  - Immunol Rev
VL  - 274
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imr.12476
DO  - doi:10.1111/imr.12476
SP  - 202
EP  - 217
KW  - cancer-related inflammation
KW  - complement activation
KW  - inflammation
KW  - opsonization
KW  - pentraxins
KW  - PTX3
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Humoral fluid phase pattern recognition molecules (PRMs) are a key component of the activation and regulation of innate immunity. Humoral PRMs are diverse. We focused on the long pentraxin PTX3 as a paradigmatic example of fluid phase PRMs. PTX3 acts as a functional ancestor of antibodies and plays a non-redundant role in resistance against selected microbes in mouse and man and in the regulation of inflammation. This molecule interacts with complement components, thus modulating complement activation. In particular, PTX3 regulates complement-driven macrophage-mediated tumor progression, acting as an extrinsic oncosuppressor in preclinical models and selected human tumors. Evidence collected over the years suggests that PTX3 is a biomarker and potential therapeutic agent in humans, and pave the way to translation of this molecule into the clinic.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Livingstone, Callum
TI  - Review of Copper Provision in the Parenteral Nutrition of Adults
JO  - Nutrition in Clinical Practice
JA  - Nutrition in Clinical Practice
VL  - 32
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1177/0884533616673190
DO  - doi:10.1177/0884533616673190
SP  - 153
EP  - 165
KW  - copper
KW  - copper deficiency
KW  - copper toxicity
KW  - parenteral nutrition
KW  - nutritional support
PY  - 2017
AB  - The essential trace element copper (Cu) is required for a range of physiologic processes, including wound healing and functioning of the immune system. The correct amount of Cu must be provided in parenteral nutrition (PN) if deficiency and toxicity are to be avoided. While provision in line with the standard recommendations should suffice for most patients, Cu requirements may be higher in patients with increased gastrointestinal losses and severe burns and lower in those with cholestasis. The tests of Cu status that are currently available for clinical use are unreliable. Serum Cu concentration is the most commonly ordered test but is insensitive to Cu deficiency and toxicity and is misleadingly increased during the acute phase response. These limitations make it difficult for prescribers to assess Cu status and to decide how much Cu to provide. There is a need for better tests of Cu status to be developed to decrease uncertainty and improve individualization of Cu dosing. More information is needed on Cu requirements in disease and Cu contamination of PN components and other intravenous fluids. New multi?trace element products should be developed that provide Cu doses in line with the 2012 American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition recommendations. This article discusses the evaluation and treatment of Cu deficiency and toxicity in patients treated with PN.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reckless, J. P. D.
AU  - Henry, P.
AU  - Pomykaj, T.
AU  - Lim, S. T.
AU  - Massaad, R.
AU  - Vandormael, K.
AU  - Johnson-Levonas, A. O.
AU  - Lis, K.
AU  - Brudi, P.
AU  - Allen, C.
TI  - Lipid-altering efficacy of ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg compared with doubling the statin dose in patients admitted to the hospital for a recent coronary event: the INFORCE study
JO  - International Journal of Clinical Practice
VL  - 62
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01697.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01697.x
SP  - 539
EP  - 554
PY  - 2008
AB  - Summary Background:? The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety profile of switching to ezetimibe/simvastatin (Eze/Simva) 10/40?mg compared with doubling the statin dose upon discharge in patients taking a statin and admitted to the hospital for the investigation of a coronary event. Design:? This phase IV, multi-centre, randomised, open-label, active-controlled, parallel group study enrolled 424 patients (aged?≥?18?years) hospitalised for an acute coronary event and taking a stable dose of a statin (≥?6?weeks) that could be doubled per the product label. Upon discharge from the hospital, patients were stratified by their statin dose/potency (high, medium and low) and randomised 1?:?1 to doubling of the statin dose (n?=?211) or Eze/Simva 10/40?mg (n?=?213) for 12?weeks. The primary efficacy variable was the absolute low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) value (mmol/l) at study end-point. Results:? Mean baseline LDL-C for the two treatment groups were 2.48 and 2.31?mmol/l for the Eze/Simva and statin groups respectively. At study end-point, least squares mean LDL-C values were 1.74?mmol/l in the Eze/Simva group and 2.22?mmol/l in the statin group resulting in a significant between-group difference of ?0.49?mmol/l (p?≤?0.001). Eze/Simva 10/40?mg also produced significantly lower total cholesterol (?0.49?mmol/l), non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [(non-HDL-C); ?0.53?mmol/l] and apolipoprotein B (?0.14?mmol/l) values compared with doubling the statin dose (p?≤?0.001 for all). Both treatments produced similar effects on triglycerides, C-reactive protein and HDL-C; the between treatment group differences were not significant (p?≥?0.160). Significantly more patients achieved LDL-C levels <?2.5 (<?100?mg/dl; 86% vs. 72%), <?2.0 (<?77?mg/dl; 70% vs. 42%) and <?1.8?mmol/l (<?70?mg/dl; 60% vs. 31%) with Eze/Simva than statin (all p?≤?0.001). Eze/Simva was generally well tolerated, with a safety profile similar to statin. There were no differences in the incidences of liver transaminases ≥?3???upper limit of normal (ULN) or creatine kinase ≥?10???ULN between the groups. Conclusions:? In patients taking a statin and admitted to the hospital for investigation of a coronary event, treatment with Eze/Simva 10/40?mg for 12?weeks produced greater improvements in lipids with a similar safety profile compared with doubling of the statin dose.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Aló, Kenneth M.
AU  - Redko, Vladimir
AU  - Charnov, Jeffery
TI  - Four Year Follow-up of Dual Electrode Spinal Cord Stimulation for Chronic Pain
JO  - Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface
VL  - 5
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1525-1403.2002.02017.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1525-1403.2002.02017.x
SP  - 79
EP  - 88
KW  - dorsal column stimulation
KW  - dual electrode stimulation
KW  - electrical stimulation
KW  - neuromodulation
KW  - paresthesia coverage
KW  - spinal cord stimulation
PY  - 2002
AB  - Abstract This paper reports on 80 patients using dual electrode, spinal cord stimulation (SCS) over a four-year period Implant status, stimulation mode, anode-cathode configuration (array), cathode position, paresthesia overlap, explantation rates, complications, Visual Analog Scores (VAS), and overall satisfaction were examined in patients implanted with dual 8 contact, staggered, percutaneous electrodes. All patients had undergone implantation for chronic axial and extremity pain [e.g., Failed Back Surgery Syndrome (FBSS), Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS)]. Outcomes were evaluated in view of our previous reports in this same group at 24 and 30 months (1,2). Data was collected by a disinterested third party. At 48 months, 18 of the original 80 patients were lost to follow-up. Of the 62 patients contacted, 33 remained implanted and 29 (47%) had been explanted. After an average evaluation of 85 arrays (PainDoc, Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Plano, Texas), 88% of patients reported using one or two ?best? arrays (bipolar or guarded tripolar) to maintain favorable paresthesia overlap (89%), VAS reduction (8.1 to 4.9), and overall patient satisfaction (63%). These arrays were most commonly positioned about the physiologic midline of the COL3?4 vertebral segments for upper extremity pain, and the T9?10 vertebral segments for low back and lower extremity pain. In contrast to our initial reports where essentially all patients preferred more than two arrays to maintain ?best? paresthesia overlap and outcome, only 12% of these same patients maintained this trend in this long-term follow-up study. The arrays most commonly selected long-term as the ?best? ones (88% of all electrodes) were narrow (adjacent contact) bipoles and guarded cathode tripoles (< 8 contacts). Thirty-five percent of patients with thoracic implants achieved paresthesia in the low back at 48 months. Explantation rates and overall patient satisfaction were significantly affected by painful radio frequency (RF) antenna coupling. This data supports the efficacy of dual electrodes in optimizing long-term SCS paresthesia overlap and complex pain outcomes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kjærgaard, Anders G.
AU  - Dige, Anders
AU  - Nielsen, Jeppe S.
AU  - Tønnesen, Else
AU  - Krog, Jan
TI  - The use of the soluble adhesion molecules sE-selectin, sICAM-1, sVCAM-1, sPECAM-1 and their ligands CD11a and CD49d as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in septic and critically ill non-septic ICU patients
JO  - APMIS
JA  - APMIS
VL  - 124
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/apm.12585
DO  - doi:10.1111/apm.12585
SP  - 846
EP  - 855
KW  - Biomarkers
KW  - sepsis
KW  - adhesion molecules
KW  - endothelial activation
PY  - 2016
AB  - Endothelial activation is pivotal in the development and escalation of sepsis. Central to endothelial activation is the endothelial up-regulation of cellular adhesion molecules (CAMs) including E-selectin, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, and PECAM-1. Shed CAMs are also found in circulating soluble forms (sCAMs). We investigated whether sCAMs can be used as biomarkers for the differentiation between septic and non-septic patients. Furthermore, we investigated lymphocyte and monocyte expression of LFA-1 (CD11a/CD18) and VLA-4 (CD49d/CD29) ligands for ICAM-1 and VCAM-1, respectively. Twenty-one septic and 15 critically ill non-septic patients were included. All patients had an APACHE II score above 13 at ICU admission. Fifteen healthy volunteers served as controls. Flow cytometry was used to estimate levels of sE-selectin, sICAM-1, sVCAM-1, sPECAM-1, and the cellular expression of CD11a and CD49d. Levels of sE-selectin, sICAM-1 and sPECAM-1 were higher in the septic patients compared with the non-septic patients and controls at admission and during the observation period. Lymphocyte and monocyte expression of CD11a and CD49d was suppressed or unaltered in the septic patients compared with the non-septic patients and controls. Levels of sE-selectin, sICAM-1, and sPECAM-1 were able to discriminate between septic and non-septic patients, indicating that sCAMs may be potential diagnostic biomarkers of sepsis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lombardi, Celestino Pio
AU  - Raffaelli, Marco
AU  - Princi, Pietro
AU  - Lulli, Paola
AU  - Rossi, Esther Diana
AU  - Fadda, Guido
AU  - Bellantone, Rocco
TI  - Safety of video-assisted thyroidectomy versus conventional surgery
JO  - Head & Neck
JA  - Head Neck
VL  - 27
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813812243
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hed.20118
DO  - doi:10.1002/hed.20118
SP  - 58
EP  - 64
KW  - video-assisted thyroidectomy
KW  - minimally invasive thyroidectomy
KW  - thyroidectomy
KW  - thyroid surgery
KW  - endoscopic thyroidectomy
PY  - 2005
AB  - Abstract Background. Thyroid gland manipulation, surgical stress response, and postoperative outcome in cases of video-assisted thyroidectomy (VAT) and conventional thyroidectomy were compared to verify the safety of VAT. Methods. Twenty consenting patients were randomly assigned to undergo VAT or conventional thyroidectomy. Serum thyroglobulin levels were monitored as indicators of thyroid manipulation, and C-reactive protein and white blood cell count were monitored to assess surgical stress response. Thyroid capsule integrity and the presence of spilled cells in the thyroid bed were verified. Results. No significant differences were found in the indicators of thyroid gland manipulation and surgical stress response between groups. No thyroid capsules ruptured, and no spilled thyroid cells were found. Patients who had VAT experienced less pain, required fewer analgesics, and were more satisfied with the cosmetic result and the surgical outcome. Conclusions. VAT is as safe as conventional thyroidectomy and is characterized by a less painful postoperative course and by better cosmetic results and postoperative outcome. ? 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Head Neck 27: 58?64, 2005
ER  - 
