
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vellanki, Priyathama
AU  - Rasouli, Neda
AU  - Baldwin, David
AU  - Alexanian, Sara
AU  - Anzola, Isabel
AU  - Urrutia, Maria
AU  - Cardona, Saumeth
AU  - Peng, Limin
AU  - Pasquel, Francisco J.
AU  - Umpierrez, Guillermo E.
AU  - Linagliptin Inpatient Research Group
TI  - Glycaemic efficacy and safety of linagliptin compared to a basal-bolus insulin regimen in patients with type 2 diabetes undergoing non-cardiac surgery: A multicentre randomized clinical trial
JO  - Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism
JA  - Diabetes Obes Metab
VL  - 21
IS  - 4
SN  - 1462-8902
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/dom.13587
DO  - doi:10.1111/dom.13587
SP  - 837
EP  - 843
KW  - DPP-IV inhibitor
KW  - glycaemic control
KW  - incretin therapy
KW  - randomised trial
PY  - 2019
AB  - Aims The use of incretin-based therapy, rather than or complementary to, insulin therapy is an active area of research in hospitalized patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). We determined the glycaemic efficacy and safety of linagliptin compared to a basal-bolus insulin regimen in hospitalized surgical patients with T2D. Materials and Methods This prospective open-label multicentre study randomized T2D patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery with admission blood glucose (BG) of 7.8 to 22.2 mmol/L who were under treatment with diet, oral agents or total insulin dose (TDD) ≤ 0.5 units/kg/day to either linagliptin (n = 128) daily or basal-bolus (n = 122) with glargine once daily and rapid-acting insulin before meals. Both groups received supplemental insulin for BG > 7.8 mmol/L. The primary endpoint was difference in mean daily BG between groups. Results Mean daily BG was higher in the linagliptin group compared to the basal-bolus group (9.5 ± 2.6 vs 8.8 ± 2.3 mmol/L/dL, P = 0.03) with a mean daily BG difference of 0.6 mmol/L (95% confidence interval 0.04, 1.2). In patients with randomization BG < 11.1 mmol/L (63% of cohort), mean daily BG was similar in the linagliptin and basal-bolus groups (8.9 ± 2.3 vs 8.7 ± 2.3 mmol/L, P = 0.43); however, patients with BG ≥ 11.1 mmol/L who were treated with linagliptin had higher BG compared to the basal-bolus group (10.9 ± 2.6 vs 9.2 ± 2.2 mmol/L, P < 0.001). Linagliptin resulted in fewer hypoglycaemic events (1.6% vs 11%, P = 0.001; 86% relative risk reduction), with similar supplemental insulin and fewer daily insulin injections (2.0 ± 3.3 vs 3.1 ± 3.3, P < 0.001) compared to the basal-bolus group. Conclusions For patients with T2D undergoing non-cardiac surgery who presented with mild to moderate hyperglycaemia (BG < 11.1 mmol/L), daily linagliptin is a safe and effective alternative to multi-dose insulin therapy, resulting in similar glucose control with lower hypoglycaemia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - HUSSAIN, Syed
AU  - PIERING, Walter
AU  - MOHYUDDIN, Tayyab
AU  - SALEH, Mohammad
AU  - ZHU, Yong-Ran
AU  - HANAN, Mary
AU  - COHEN, Eric
TI  - Outcome among patients with acute renal failure needing continuous renal replacement therapy: A single center study
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1542-4758.2009.00342.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1542-4758.2009.00342.x
SP  - 205
EP  - 214
KW  - CRRT
KW  - outcome
KW  - acute renal failure
KW  - dialysis dependance
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Outcome of acute renal failure (ARF) and use of continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) have shown a consistently high mortality. (1) Evaluate the short-term patient survival. (2) Evaluate dialysis-free survival. (3) Evaluate risk factors associated with overall survival and the continued need for intermittent dialysis. We identified adults (≥18 years) needing CRRT, treated in the critical care units of Froedtert Medical and Lutheran Hospital from January 1, 2003 till December 31, 2005. Patients were divided into two major groups needing CRRT, end stage renal disease (ESRD) (chronic dialysis) and non-ESRD with ARF. Continuous renal replacement therapy was performed with an average of 2?L replacement fluid exchanges/h. Sigma stat software was used for analysis. Comparison was done for noncontinuous variables by chi-square and t test for categorical and continuous variables, respectively. A total of 110 (ESRD 24/non-ESRD 86) patients received CRRT during study period. Over all in-hospital mortality among non-ESRD patients was 63% vs. 46% for ESRD. Among non-ESRD patients who survived, 47% needed intermittent hemodialysis on intensive care unit discharge and 28% continued to need hemodialysis at last follow-up. Among non-ESRD patients alive at discharge, those who were dialysis dependent on last follow-up were older (64.5) than those who did not require dialysis on last follow-up (58.4) P=0.347. Non-ESRD patients who died were in the hospital for an average of 17.5 days compared with 29 days for those who were discharged from the hospital. Patients with ARF needing CRRT have high in-hospital mortality. A significant percentage of patients remained dialysis dependant on last follow-up.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Knight, R.J.
AU  - Kerman, R.H.
AU  - McKissick, E.
AU  - Lawless, A.
AU  - Podder, H.
AU  - Katz, S.
AU  - Van Buren, C.T.
AU  - Kahan, B.D.
TI  - Selective corticosteroid and calcineurin-inhibitor withdrawal after pancreas–kidney transplantation utilizing thymoglobulin induction and sirolimus maintenance therapy
JO  - Clinical Transplantation
VL  - 22
IS  - 5
SN  - 0902-0063
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-0012.2008.00839.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1399-0012.2008.00839.x
SP  - 645
EP  - 650
KW  - calcineurin-inhibitor
KW  - corticosteroids
KW  - pancreas–kidney transplantation
KW  - withdrawal
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract:? Of 25 simultaneous pancreas?kidney transplant (SPK) recipients treated with thymoglobulin induction, sirolimus and reduced-dose cyclosporine (CsA), 18 low-immune responders (non-African?Americans, PRA?<?30%) were withdrawn from prednisone on post-transplant day 5, whereas seven high-immune responders continued on prednisone. Most high- and low-immune responder recipients were converted from CsA to mycophenolic acid (MPA) at six months post-transplantation. At a mean follow-up of 28?±?10?months, two pancreas grafts were lost to pancreatitis. There were no patient or kidney graft losses, but one acute rejection episode. At 28?±?11?months, all 18 low-responder recipients remain steroid-free. Twenty recipients (14 low and six high-immune responders) were converted from CsA to MPA. During conversion, immune response was monitored by Flow-PRA and T-cell stimulation (Cylex) assays. Nineteen of 20 recipients displayed a post-conversion PRA of 0%, whereas one highly sensitized patient expressed a post-conversion PRA of 67%. Fifty-eight percent of individual T-cell stimulation scores were in the hypo-responsive range. Twelve of 18 low-immune responders are both steroid and CsA-free at a mean follow-up of 17?±?13?months, whereas five of seven high-immune responders remain CsA-free at a mean follow-up of 11?±?10?months. These data suggest that thymoglobulin induction with combined sirolimus and CsA maintenance therapy permits immunosuppression minimization in selected SPK recipients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Demetriou, J. L.
AU  - Foale, R. D.
AU  - Ladlow, J.
AU  - McGrotty, Y.
AU  - Faulkner, J.
AU  - Kirby, B. M.
TI  - Canine and feline pyothorax: a retrospective study of 50 cases in the UK and Ireland
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 43
IS  - 9
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2002.tb00089.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2002.tb00089.x
SP  - 388
EP  - 394
PY  - 2002
AB  - Fifty cases (36 dogs and 14 cats) with a confirmed diagnosis of pyothorax were evaluated from five referral institutions in the UK and Ireland. Aetiology, clinical presentation, diagnosis, treatment and outcome of all cases were examined. The underlying cause of pyothorax was determined in 18 per cent of cases. Positive bacteriological cultures of the pleural fluid were obtained in 68·7 per cent of the animals. Treatment modalities included surgery and medical management, involving thoracostomy tube placement, thoracic aspiration, thoracic lavage and antimicrobial therapy. A successful outcome was achieved in 86 per cent of patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Neurophysiology: EEG–Video Monitoring
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_4.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_4.x
SP  - 23
EP  - 34
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Elaine C. Wirrell, and 2 Christina Cheung ( 1 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Faculty of Medicine, Queens University, Kingston, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Adolescent perception of physical and social impact of chronic illness was assessed to determine a) is there greater prejudice toward epilepsy than other chronic disease, b) do adolescents with chronic disease have less prejudice towards similarly affected peers with all, or just their specific chronic disease. Methods: Cohort study. Setting: Outpatient clinics of a tertiary care pediatric hospital. Participants: Cognitively normal teens aged 13?18 without chronic disease (n = 41) and with epilepsy (n = 32), asthma (n = 38), diabetes (n = 21) and migraine (n = 17). Main Outcome Measures: Perceived physical and social impact of 8 chronic diseases (epilepsy, asthma, diabetes, Down's syndrome, arthritis, migraine, leukemia, HIV infection). Results: Epilepsy was perceived to have more adverse physical impact than all chronic illnesses except Down's syndrome. The perception was that it more frequently caused mental handicap, injured the afflicted individual and bystanders and led to death. Epilepsy was also perceived to have more negative social impact particularly on behavior, honesty, popularity, adeptness at sports and fun. Significantly more adolescents' expressed reluctance to befriend peers with epilepsy both from their own and their perceived parental perspectives. Having a chronic disease did not generally alter adolescents' perceptions of peers with chronic disease. However cases with epilepsy ranked this disease to have less social impact than teens with other chronic diseases. Conclusions: Adolescents consider epilepsy to have a greater physical and social impact than most chronic diseases. Educational efforts should focus on the ?normality? of most persons with epilepsy, and emphasize the low risk of injury when proper first aide is followed. 1 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 Veriano Alexandre Jr., 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Roger Walz, 1 Charles L. Dalmagro, 1 Regina M.F. Fernandes, 1 Juliana S. Lage, and 1 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology, CIREP, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Fourteen and six positive spiking is an electroencephalographic phenomenon first described by Gibbs and Gibbs in 1951 as bursts of arch-shaped surface positive waves at 14  and 2 Department of Neurology, Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center, Winston-Salem, NC ) Rationale: Bradycardia and asystole occurring during seizures are thought to be possible risk factors for SUDEP in patients with epilepsy. Pacemaker implantation has been carried out in most patients because of concerns of potential cardiac morbidity and mortality. Literature review of patients reported to have ictal asystole and pacemakers implanted show them to have a long history of seizures and better control of seizures following diagnosis and change in treatment resulting in lack of pacemaker activation. We report a patient with ictal asystole on VEEG who failed prior montherapy that was subsequently treated with Levetiracetam (LEV) and did not undergo pacemaker implantation. Methods: The case is a 27 year old female with a 4 year history of spells consisting of an aura of deja vu and fear followed by loss of consciousness for less than 30 seconds. She was also described as becoming limp with tongue biting and incontinence but no tonic clonic activity. Due to lack of response to Topiramate and need to characterize spells, she underwent VEEG monitoring. Results: VEEG recording of 2 events were done. The two events were preceded by tachycardia which was up to 200 beats per minute(bpm) followed by asystole for 20 seconds in one and tachycardia of 120 bpms followed by bradycardia of 30 seconds in the other. (VEEG will be shown at meeting).There was brief right temporal theta seziure activity seen preceding the second event. SPECT injection was normal. The patient was placed on LEV and underwent a Reveal Loop recorder implantation for continuous EKG recording. The patient has been seizure free for 6 months with no cardiac arrhythmias detected. Conclusions: Ictal asystole has not been associated with increased mortality from epilepsy. The occurrence of asystole during seizures in patients with longstanding epilepsy and reports that seizures may respond to antiepileptic medication supports this concept. Patterns of heart rate change leading to ictal asystole appear unique and will be discussed. Further studies looking at larger numbers of patients with comprehensive cardiac evaluation are needed to further understand the concept of SUDEP rather than single aspects such as bradyarrhythmias. This case suggests that ictal asystole may not necessitate pacemaker implantation. 1 Luis Otavio S. Caboclo, 1 Henrique Carrete Jr., 1 Ricardo S. Centeno, 1 Elza Marcia T. Yacubian, and 1,2 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Universidade Federal de S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Universidade de S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and unilateral severe hippocampal sclerosis (HS) may have contralateral temporal scalp ictal onset. This has recently been called ?burned-out hippocampus,? which is believed to be a rare entity (1). In this study we report four patients with unilateral hippocampal sclerosis and contralateral ictal onset registered by scalp-sphenoidal electrodes. We discuss the importance of such cases in pre-surgical evaluation of patients with TLE, as well as possible strategies used for evaluation of these particular cases. Methods: We reviewed charts from all patients with TLE submitted to pre-surgical evaluation, which included high resolution MRI and prolonged video-EEG monitoring, during a two-year period (2003?2004). We searched for patients who only had seizures that were clearly contralateral in location to the atrophic hippocampus. Results: Four patients fulfilled the criteria above. All four had unilateral HS with severely atrophic hippocampus, confirmed by volumetric measures. Two of these patients went through semi-invasive video-EEG monitoring with foramen ovale (FO) electrodes, which revealed seizures originating from the atrophic hippocampus, hence confirming false lateralization in the scalp EEG. These patients were submitted to surgical treatment ? anterior temporal lobectomy ? and had favorable prognosis after surgery. The other two patients are still going through pre-surgical evaluation. Conclusions: Burned-out hippocampus syndrome may not be as rare as it was previously believed. Further studies will be necessary before one can affirm that patients with unilateral HS and scalp ictal EEG showing contralateral ictal onset may be operated without confirmation of the epileptogenic zone by invasive monitoring. In these patients, semi-invasive monitoring with FO electrodes might be an interesting alternative. REFERENCE 1.?Mintzer S, Cendes F, Soss J, Andermann F, Engel J Jr., Dubeau F, Olivier A, Fried I. Unilateral hippocampal sclerosis with contralateral temporal scalp ictal onset. Epilepsia 2004;45: 792?802. (Supported by FAPESP (Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo) and CAPES (Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior)/CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico).) 1 David R. Chabolla ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: To determine if whispering or feeble motor displays in response to commands during the initial post-ictal recovery of responsiveness can help to differentiate epileptic from psychogenic seizures. Methods: Video-EEG recordings from 100 consecutive adult admissions to the EMU during 2003 and 2004 were reviewed. The medical history and clinical follow-up after EMU dismissal were also reviewed. Cases were divided into three diagnostic categories: 1) epileptic seizures (ES), 2) physiological events (phyE) that included movement disorders, parasomnias, and syncope, 3) psychogenic nonepileptic seizure (pNES) that included the somatoform, dissociative, and anxiety disorders with panic attacks. Cases without a recorded spell or with only brief subjective symptoms without loss of responsiveness were excluded from the analysis. Specific attention was paid to the behaviors occurring during the first 1 to 2 minutes of verbal and motor responsiveness in the post-ictal recovery phase. Whispery verbal responses were identified by low volume, soft speech using breath instead of phonation. A feeble motor response to command involved movement of the correct limb in a manner lacking force, strength, or effectiveness and typically not completing the task. Results: Twenty five (25%) had pNES, 43 (43%) had ES, 9 (9%) had phyE, and 23 (23%) had no recorded symptoms or only brief subjective symptoms without loss of responsiveness. PNES cases consisted of 21 (84%) somatoform or dissociative disorder (all females) and 4 (16%) anxiety disorder with panic attacks (1 female). No cases of malingering or facticious disorder were diagnosed. The 25 pNES patients experienced approximately 240 events (range 1?22/patient). The initial 1 to 2 minutes of verbal or motor response in the post-ictal recovery phase were associated with whispering or feeble motor responses to command in 16 (21%) of all cases and 76% of pNES cases due to a somatoform or dissociative disorder. These signs were not seen in any of the panic disorder, phyE, or ES cases. In 132 (73%) of the seizures in patients with a somatoform or dissociative disorder, both seizures with motor manifestations as well as those with loss of responsiveness without motor manifestations, one or both of these signs were observed. The 5 pNES patients who did not display a whispery voice or feeble movements, and did not have a panic disorder, showed previously reported signs of indifference, telegraphic speech, or regression to child-like speech patterns post-ictally. Conclusions: Psychogenic seizures due to somatoform or dissociative disorders are commonly associated with the presence of a whispery voice or feeble motor responses to commands during the initiation of post-ictal recovery of responsiveness. These signs were not commonly seen after epileptic seizures. A prospective study of a larger population would be helpful to determine the predictive value of these signs. 1 William S. Corrie, and 1 Venkata V. Jakkampudi ( 1 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Individuals contemplating admission to an epilepsy monitoring unit wish an estimate of the time they should plan to stay and the likelihood that the stay will lead to a diagnosis. We sought to provide data that will aid in answering these questions. Methods: We reviewed all patients 18 years or older who were referred for diagnosis of seizures and seizure-like behavior in the last five years. From admission history and descriptions of witnesses, we defined a particular seizure pattern or behavior pattern as the event we were asked to assess. We call this the ?target event.? Most patients had all anticonvulsant medications discontinued beginning with the morning dose on the day of admission. Some did not take medications with long half-lives for a longer period before admission. Sometimes, we are asked to identify the nature of a new pattern that occurs with patients on medications, and these patients continue their home medications. On occasion, we found that the ?target event? was non-epileptic, on other occasions it was epileptic. Some patients had additional ?non-target? events. We considered an admission as ?not successful? when we did not record the event that represented the current chief complaint and/or the event that the patient's physician needed clarified. Results: We found 180 men and 352 women who were monitored as described above. We observed ?target events? in 316 of them. Duration of monitoring was variable. Thus, we report the patients having their first ?target event? in a day as a percentage of patients who entered that day without having one in an earlier session. We found that 27.8% had a ?target event? on the first day, 13% within the first six hours. The second day, 25.7% had their first event; the third day, 18.6%; the fourth day, 17.1% and 10.0%on the fifth day. Although we recorded only twenty patients yet to have an event on the sixth day, two of them had their first target event on that day. Conclusions: A single day of monitoring will only lead to a diagnosis in about one quarter of admitted adult patients. Three days of monitoring will provide at least one diagnostic event in about one half of the patients. If we recorded no ?target events? after four days of monitoring, we have a chance of recording such data in only 10% of these remaining patients. This suggests that four days of monitoring may be a point of diminishing returns. 1,2 Maria Luiza C. Dal-Cól, 2 Vera Cristina Terra-Bustamante, 2 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 José Antônio C. De Oliveira, 1,2 Poliana Bertti, 2 Américo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Norberto Garcia-Cairasco ( 1 Physiology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology, Psychiatry and Psychology, Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine, University of S?o Paulo - FMRP/USP, Ribeir?o Preto, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The aim of this work was to differentiate behavioral pattern of human right (RTLE) and left (LTLE) temporal lobe seizures with a neuroethological method used and validated in our laboratory for animal models of epilepsy. Methods: We analyzed 14 seizures of 7 patients in each group. Patients were monitorized at CIREP/FMRP/USP between 1997 and 2002. Videos were observed and all patients' behaviors annotated second/second. Data were analyzed using Ethomatic software and displayed as flowcharts including frequency, duration and sequential dyads statistic interaction. (X2≥10.827; >p < 0.001). Results: Pre-ictal period of both goups were similar, with patients awakened or sleeping. In this case, awakening was the starting point of a seizure. Behaviors as ictal speech; mouth, throat and abdominal clonia; positive verbal command for speech (VC+S) and normal speech (FANO); deglutition automatism; beak and left upper limb paresis; face and eye right hand wiping occurred only in RTLE group. Left hand automatism; eye deviation to the right; right hand tonic posture and relaxing and right upper limb immobility occurred only in LTLE group. Behaviors that happened mostly in the RTLE group: positive verbal command for action (VC+A; 69,2%); left hand dystonia (81,81%); global movements (71,43%). Mostly in the LTLE group: negative verbal command (VC-; 79,41%), right hand dystonia (76,92%), hip raising (70,97%), left cephalic deviation (69,23%) and left leg automatisms (76,19%). Interaction analysis showed strong interaction (interactions shown, p < 0,001) between global tonic contraction, tremor and global clonic contraction in the LTLE group and more variable clonic and tonic postures in the RTLE, with prominence to left hemibody tonic postures or clonic movements. In the LTLE group we can verify right hand dystonia, and in the RTLE group, an interesting progression from left hand dystonia to left leg dystonia. In the post ictal period, patients from RTLE group present great interaction between CIREP equip questions (INRE) and VC+A, besides VC+S and FANO. In the LTLE group, interactions are mostly between INRE and VC-. Other interesting feature of the RTLE group is eye, mouth, nose and face wiping with the right hand. Conclusions: We confirmed various behaviors with lateralizatory value described in the literature. Also, recording of all behaviors second-by-second permits the observation of novel behaviors that may have predictive value. Interaction analysis permits the observation of possible preferential spread circuits, such as the progression of dystonia or seizure generalization. Studies with other epileptic syndroms are planned. (Supported by FAPESP, CNPq, FAEPA, PROAP-CAPES, PRONEX and FAEPA.) 1 Martin Del Campo, 1 Richard Wennberg, 2 Taufik Valiante, and 3 Richard Farb ( 1 Neurology, Krembil Neuroscience Centre, University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada ; 2 Neurosurgery ; and 3 Medical Imaging ) Rationale: In the presurgical EEG evaluation of patients with epilepsy it is often necessary to conduct intracranial recordings (IR), the purpose of which is to accurately localize the epileptogenic zone(s) when surface recordings are insufficient. Reported morbidity includes infection, cerebral edema and hemorrhage. However, the relevant literature has not emphasized the possibility of falsely localizing data produced by transient focal seizures (TFS) that may appear early in the post-implantation phase and spontaneously subside. Published reports are scant and sometimes in journals not likely to be read by epileptologists. Methods: Once aware of the possibility of transient epileptogenic foci associated with subdural electrode placement (Clin Neurophysiol 1999; 110:419?23), we examined 26 consecutive patients undergoing IR. Visual analysis of the IR was performed by MdC and/or RW. The simultaneous video data was analyzed and patients were questioned about any symptoms surrounding the times during which TFS occurred. Brain CT/MRI and direct observation at the time of surgery was carried out to look for blood or any other change associated with the presence of TFS during the IR. Results: Seventeen of the 26 patients were implanted with subdural grid and/or strip electrodes. The remainder had depth electrodes. Three patients developed TFS distant from the ultimately identified clinically relevant epileptogenic zone. Localized near the border regions of subdural grids, these TFS were very frequent at first and subsided within 3 days of implantation. Thin layers of blood were found underlying the grids on CT or at surgery. Another patient had morphologically distinct TFS recorded from a basal temporal subdural strip which subsided after evacuation of a subdural hematoma in the area. Clinically relevant seizures appeared 3 days later arising from the same region but exhibiting very different electrographic features. None of the 4 patients was symptomatic or demonstrated any behavioural changes during the TFS which lasted up to 8 minutes, preceeded by long periods of continuous rhythmic spike or sharp wave activity. Conclusions: Transient areas of focal epileptogenesis may develop as a discrete irritative phenomenon distant from areas of clinical relevance. This occurred in our patients in association with the presence of blood under subdural grids or strips. Recognition of this infrequent complication of IR will avoid mislocalization of areas to be included in surgical resection. It is also important that patients not be inappropriately denied surgery should TFS appear close to eloquent cortex or as one of several foci. The occurence of frequent focal electrographic seizures preceeded by long periods of rhythmic spiking early in the post-implantation period should alert the electroencephalographer to this phenomenon and the likely presence of subdural blood in the region. 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 1 Mark D. Holmes ( 1 Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: Investigators commonly identify epileptic seizures (EPI) and psychological non-epileptic events (NES) during EEG monitoring, but in most cases no reference is made to reports of ?seizures? by patients which are purely subjective (SUB) and which have neither EEG nor clinical changes. This is true even though there is the recent suggestion in the literature that SUB (Epilepsia 1998; 39:857?862) is both important and largely independent of EPI and NES. Methods: All 857 adults (age 16?76) with EEG monitoring (average of 5.83 days) during an 8.5 year period were included. All were reported to have episodes which possibly or probably represent epilepsy. Monitoring established the nature of the episodes reported, and suitability for various forms of treatment including surgery. All patients had also completed the WAIS-R, much or all of an expanded Halstead-Reitan neuropsychological battery, the MMPI, and the WPSI (Washington Psychosocial Seizure Inventory). The types of events and their frequencies among the 857 patients were as follows: EPI only 298; NES only 120; SUB only 128; EPIL+SUB 135; SUB+NES 51; EPIL+NES 13; EPIL+NES+SUB 7; no events of any type, 106. ANOVAs run across the groups with one type of event and with two types events on the variables of interest constituted the primary analyses. Results: Biodata variables evaluated included age (no differences across the groups), gender (SUB and NES were similar with about 70% female; EPI 50%; p < .001), and years of education (SUB slightly but not significantly better educated than NES and EPI). Medical history/monitoring variables included age at onset of seizures (EPI much earlier than NES and SUB which were similar; p < .001), psychiatric history (NES and SUB similar and much higher than EPI; p < .001), neurological history other than seizures (n.s.), total episodes recorded during monitoring (n.s.), and days of monitoring required (SUB > NES, EPI intermediate; p < .001). Mental ability variables showed EPI patients to be below NES and SUB in many cases, with SUB often being slightly but non-significantly better than NES. WAIS-R VIQ, PIQ, FSIQ, and overall percent of neuropsychological tests outside normal limits were all significantly different across the groups (p < .01?p < .001). Emotional adjustment variables from the MMPI showed SUB to be more depressed than NES and EPI (p < .001) but with similar scores which were higher than EPI on scales emphasizing somatic focus and unusual thought patterns (p < .01?p < .001). Psychosocial variables from the WPSI showed scores which were worse for SUB than for either NES or EPI (Family Background, p < .001; Emotional Adjustment, p < .001; Overall Psychosocial Adjustment, p < .01). Conclusions: Reports of ?seizures? during EEG monitoring without either the electrographic changes of EPI or the behavioral changes of NES need to be routinely recorded as they have substantially different characteristics. The investigation of such spells may lead to new insights in several areas. 1 Pradeep Modur, and 1 Fred Dunda ( 1 Neurology, University of Louisville Hospital, Louisville, KY ) Rationale: Short-term video-EEG monitoring (SVEM) and long-term video-EEG monitoring (LVEM) are extremely helpful in the diagnosis of intractable seizures (JNNP 2004 75:771?2; Epilepsia 2004 45:928?32; Epilepsia 2004 45:1150?3). However, there is little information regarding their usefulness when performed in conjunction with routine EEG (REEG), or serially in the same cohort of patients. Methods: Retrospective analysis of data from all the patients with intractable seizures evaluated at the University of Louisville Comprehensive Epilepsy Center over a 2-year period (October 2002?2004) was performed. Patients underwent either SVEM (4-hour duration) or LVEM (1?8 day/s duration). At the beginning of each SVEM and during the first day of each LVEM, a 20-min segment of EEG with video was acquired as baseline recording using appropriate activation procedures (hyperventilation, photic stimulation, and sleep when possible); this baseline segment was designated REEG since its protocol was similar to the routine outpatient EEG performed in our center. In those patients who underwent both SVEM and LVEM (at different dates), the baseline segment obtained at the time of SVEM was considered as REEG. In patients suspected of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures, suggestion was used for induction. Interpretation for each REEG, SVEM and LVEM was categorized into one or more of the following: partial epilepsy (PE), generalized epilepsy (GE), and nonepileptic seizures (NES); the designation, non-diagnostic (ND), was used when none of the above categories was applicable. NES comprised of psychogenic seizures and all other paroxysmal attacks. Results: There were 336 patients (223 females, 66%) in the age range of 11 to 86 years (mean 38 years). As shown in the table, the diagnostic yield was highest (78%) for LVEM, lowest for REEG (14%) and intermediate for SVEM (44%). Eighteen patients underwent LVEM after an earlier SVEM. In 15 of these, the interpretation was non-diagnostic after SVEM; in 8 of these 15 patients (53%), definitive diagnosis was established at the conclusion of LVEM, with NES being the most predominant category in 6 (40%) patients. Eight patients (5%) were considered for VNS implantation after SVEM while 37 patients (18%) were evaluated for epilepsy surgery after LVEM. Conclusions: In the evaluation of intractable seizures, routine EEG is not helpful and LVEM provides the highest diagnostic yield. With SVEM, there are 7-fold and 2.5-fold increases in the diagnostic yield of nonepileptic seizures and generalized epilepsy respectively. In a given cohort of patients, LVEM after a non-diagnostic SVEM is most likely to establish the diagnosis of nonepileptic seizures. ND, n (%) PE, n (%) GE, n (%) NES, n (%) REEG, n = 336 288 (86) 52 (16) 12 (4)? ?2 (<1)? SVEM, n = 151 84 (56) 35 (23) 21 (14) 11 (7)?? LVEM, n = 203 45 (22) 84 (41) ?9 (4)? 73 (36)? ND SVEM ? LVEM, n = 15 ?7 (47) ?1 (7)? ?1 (7)? ?6 (40)? 1 Luiz K. Ferreira, 1 Leandro R. Teles, 1 Rosa Maria F. Valerio, 1 Carmen L. Jorge, 2 Paula R. Arantes, 2 Carla R. Ono, and 1 Luiz Henrique M. Castro ( 1 Neurology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Radiology, Faculdade de Medicina USP, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Hypothalamic hamartoma (HH) is associated with refractory epilepsy with multiple seizure types. Few studies have addressed the ictal findings in non-gelastic seizures. Methods: Adult patients with MRI diagnosed HH and epilepsy underwent continuous video-eeg monitoring to document all seizure types and ictal SPECT. Seizures were classified acccording to clinical and ictal EEG findings. Data were correlated with MRI and ictal SPECT. Results: Six patients (ages 18?39 years; 4 men) with sessile HHs, measuring 0.178 to 9.952cm3. Four were right lateralized and two left. Four had posterior, one middle HHs. The remaining HH was unclassifiable. Three seizure types were seen: gelastic (GS), complex partial (CPS) and asymmetric tonic postural (ATPS). GS were associated with other seizure types. An individual patient could present either CPS or ATPS. GS were present in five patients. Ictal EEG in GS showed no or nonspecific changes. Four patients had ATPS. In three, ATPS were associated with GS. The other patient had isolated ATPS; ictal EEG showed diffuse attenuation or paroxysmal fast activity, followed by right frontal ictal activity in one patient. The remaing two patients had CPS with automatisms; ictal EEG showed unilateral temporal activity. In both, CPS were associated with GS. A generalized tonic-clonic seizure was seen in four patients, always preceded by another seizure type. The two smallest HH were associated with CPS and not to ATPS. The HH's side correlated with EEG lateralization during CPS. We found no correlation between the middle/posterior HH location and seizure type. Ictal SPECT was performed in five patients and showed increased flow in two (increased right temporal flow in one CPS and increased left frontal and HH flow in one GS/ATPS, concordant with hamartoma lateralization). Accepting HH intrinsic epileptogenicity, we propose that seizure progression from GS to other seizure types is due to seizure activity spread from the HH to other brain areas. Electroclinical differences between CPS and ATPS suggest a different ictal spread. CPS could result from temporal lobe involvement (?horizontal spread?) and ATPS from midline structures (?vertical spread?). Horizontal spread correlated with HH lateralization and only occured in the smallest HHs. Vertical spread was seen in the larger HH with features of frontal/midline involvement. There was no association between HH/mamillary body relationship and seizure spread pattern. Conclusions: Seizure types in HH were limited to three specific seizure types. The pattern of clinical seizure types in each patient, ictal EEG and SPECT findings suggest ictal onset in the HH, with horizontal spread in CPS (in smaller HHs) or vertical spread in ATPS (in the larger HHs). Seizure and HH lateralization was seen in both seizure types. (Supported by FAPESP (The State of S?o Paulo Research Foundation).) 1 James D. Geyer, 2 Paul R. Carney, and 3 Frank G. Gilliam ( 1 The Clinical Neurophysiology Laboratories, Southern Sleep Specialists, Tuscaloosa, AL ; 2 Department of Pediatrics, Neurology, Neuroscience, and Bioengineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL ; and 3 Columbia Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: Dyshormia or epileptiform spikes occurring within K-complexes has been described in patients with generalized epilepsy, with one study reporting that generalized spikes occurred frequently in association with K-complexes. We report the rate and laterality of focal dyshormia in localization-related epilepsy. Methods: Pre-surgical or diagnostic long-term video-EEG results of 40 consecutive patients with epilepsy (13 patients with right temporal lobe epilepsy, 20 patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy, and 7 patients with frontal lobe epilepsy) were reviewed. Sleep samples were reviewed and the numbers of K-complexes, spikes and spikes within K-complexes were recorded. The comparison group consisted of 40 consecutive patients with non-epileptic events who were monitored with long-term video EEG. Results: Focal dyshormia occurred in 2 of 13 (15%) right temporal lobe epilepsy patients, 6 of 20 (30%) left temporal lobe patients and 3 of 7 (42%) extratemporal lobe epilepsy patients. In most patients with focal dyshormia, spikes occurring during K-complexes were relatively rare. The epileptiform activity occurred ipsilateral to the primary epileptogenic zone in each case. Not only did more patients with frontal lobe epilepsy have focal dyshormia but the percentage of K-complexes with associated focal epileptiform activity tended to be higher in these patients than in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Conclusions: We identified focal dyshormia, or spikes occurring during K-complexes, in patients with localization-related epilepsy. The sharply contoured components of K-complexes or associated sleep spindles may obscure focal spikes within K-complexes. Nevertheless, K-complexes may be associated with focal epileptiform discharges. Several authors suggested that dyshormia occurs only in patients with primary generalized epilepsy. We report focal dyshormia occurring ipsilateral to the primary epileptogenic zone, associated with localization related epilepsy. Given the predilection of the epileptiform discharges associated with K-complexes to occur ipsilateral to the side of ictal onset, the presence of focal dyshormia may assist in the identification of the primary epileptogenic zone. In general, there was a trend toward more K-complexes being associated with spikes in frontal lobe epilepsy than in temporal lobe epilepsy. Malow et al. reported the presence of sleep spindles recorded from the hippocampus and the association with epileptiform activity in one patient. The association of K-complexes with epileptiform activity may also represent an effect of temporal modulation of the typical features of stage II sleep. 1 Christine M. Heath, and 1 Charles M. Epstein ( 1 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Posterior dislocation/fracture of the humerus is a known, but rare, complication of generalized convulsions. Methods: Observational. Results: Over the course of 53 days, we observed three humeral fractures during generalized seizures in a single epilepsy monitoring unit during acute withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Patients had been on anticonvulsants for 16 to 48 years. Ages were 31 to 55 years. All were in bed during seizures, and none fell. Conclusions: This striking cluster of humeral fractures, which represents 3% of monitored patients over a short time interval, may represent in part vulnerability from long-term anticonvulsants in epileptic patients. However, it may also represent a tendency to more severe generalized convulsions during acute withdrawal. An increased incidence of fractures may be part of the additional morbidity associated with rapid anticonvulsant taper. 1 Heidi L. Henninger, and 2 Donald L. Schomer ( 1 Department of Neurology, Maine Medical Center, Portland, ME ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Beth Isreal Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Inpatient, video-EEG monitoring is often considered the ?gold standard? for evaluating patients with medically refractory epilepsy. Access to inpatient epilepsy monitoring units is improving as more non-academic centers are providing this service. There are still large numbers of patients for whom access is a major barrier. We evaluated the diagnostic utility of ambulatory, digital video-EEG monitoring in patients with refractory ?epilepsy? without access to an in-patient monitoring unit. Methods: Data from a consecutive cohort of fifty patients with a presumptive diagnosis of medically refractory epilepsy for whom ambulatory video-EG monitoring was ordered were retrospectively analyzed. A study was considered ?positive? if typical spells were recorded, epileptic or not, or if inter-ictal (ii)EEG abnormalities were identified which clarified seizure type when prior baseline EEGs were normal. ?Negative? studies were those where no spells were recorded or when the iiEEG provided no additional data compared to prior EEGs. Results: Of the 50 patients, 36 underwent testing for diagnostic purposes and 14 for presurgical screening. Mean evaluation period was 2.2 days. Mean number of seizures recorded per patient was 3. Positive diagnostic information was obtained in 60% of studies. In the diagnostic group, positive yield was 53%. The yield in the presurgical group was 78.5%. No seizures were recorded in 46% of patients (n = 23), but of these, 30% had iiEEG abnormalities that helped clarify diagnosis, and hence were considered diagnostic. Medical management was changed on the basis of the ambulatory video-EEG study in 60% of patients. Conclusions: The development of ambulatory, digital video-EEG monitoring can allow for diagnosis, seizure classification and even presurgical screening for patients without access to in-patient monitoring. In addition, the ambulatory video-EEG study may be appropriate for some patients who might find it difficult to comply with in-patient monitoring, such as pediatric patients, patients with heavy smoking, child care issues or in those where it is thought that environmental stimuli are triggers for targeted episodes. The shorter monitoring duration maybe responsible for the slightly lower rate of ?positive studies? compared to recent studies looking at this issue in in-patient monitoring (1), but the cost savings is substantial. Therefore, for many patients, ambulatory digital video-EEG monitoring is a cost-effective alternative to in-patient video-EEG studies. 1 Ghougassian D. F., et. al., Epilepsia 45(8):928?932, 2004 (Supported by SleepMed/DigiTrace (Peabody, MA 01960).) 1 Luciana M. Inuzuka, 1 Vera C.T. Bustamante, 1 Sandra S. Funayama, 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Sara R.E. Rosset, 1 Helio R. Machado, 1 Americo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Regina M.F. Fernandes ( 1 CIREP, Hospital das Clinicas de Ribeirao Preto - USP, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Ketogenic diet (KD) is a long-time known treatment, effective for seizure control, and often indicated for patients with refractory epilepsy.We carried out the present study in order to speculate how KD should be introduced, and further evaluate its effect over several electrophysiological parameters as well as its efficacy for seizure control. Methods: We evaluated prospectively clinical and neurophysiologic parameters of a group of patients submitted to KD treatment in our hospital. For this purpose, 27 patients with refractory epilepsy were selected and submitted to the classic KD. All patients had detailed previous video-EEG studies and 2 optimized anti-epileptic drugs before the beginning of KD treatment. The patients were randomly assigned to 2 groups and were submitted to two different modalities of KD introduction: First group of patients (n = 13) was submitted to KD after 24 hours of fasting. The second one was submitted to KD without fasting (n = 14). Both groups were compared by age of beginning of the DC, gender, age of epilepsy onset and introduction of KD, time to reach large urinary ketosis, types of epileptic seizures and syndromes, adverse events, efficacy of the KD for seizures control after 2, 6 and 12 months of treatment. Additionally, complete data of an historical series of 13 patients previously submitted to KD after prolonged fasting (24 to 72 hours) in our center were analyzed and included in this study. Results: There were no differences in age of KD introduction, age, gender, age of epilepsy onset, and epilepsy syndrome (focal or generalized) and time to reach strong ketosis among the three groups of patients. Also, there were no differences for seizure control after 2 or 6 months of follow-up among the three groups analyzed. After 6 months and 12 months, the KD was effective in controlling focal or generalized seizures in 46.9% and 37.5% of patients respectively. Corresponding to 25.0% (6 months) and 21.8% (12 months) of patients seizure free or improvement of seizures more than 90%. During KD period, 19 patients were submitted to video-EEG monitoring and 26.3% of them showed improvement on clinical and electroencephalographic parameters. During the introduction of the diet and along the first following days, no differences in the incidence of adverse effects were observed in regard to previous fasting or not. Conclusions: The introduction of KD without a previous fasting period was equally effective in provoking large urinary ketosis as compared to patients submitted to fasting. The incidence of adverse effects of KD was also not different between those groups. Moreover, a fasting period before KD did not affect long-term seizure control. Taken together, our results support the concept that a fasting period before the introduction of KD is not clinically relevant. 1 Soo Yeon Park, 1 Hee Hwang, 1 Jong Hee Chae, 1 Ji Eun Choi, 1 Ki Joong Kim, and 1 Yong Seung Hwang ( 1 Pediatrics, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Although atonic seizures are not uncommon in infants and children, the precise ictal semiology and EEG have not been characterized. This study was performed to demonstrate the clinical and electrophysiological characteristics of atonic seizures in infants and children. Methods: Twenty six patients (19 males and 7 females) showed atonic seizures during long-term video-EEG monitoring (VEM). The mean age on VEM was 37 months. Ictal semiology, interictal and ictal EEG, and brain imaging findings were analyzed. Results: The brain MRI findings were normal in 14 (53.8%) and abnormal in 11 patients (42.3%). Thirteen patients (50%) had atonic seizures only, while the other 13 patients (50%) showed other type of seizures in addition. The types of accompanying seizures were myoclonic seizures in 5, atypical absence seizures in 4, partial seizures in 3, tonic spasms in 2, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures in 1 patient. In the patients with atonic seizures only, 12 showed generalized epileptiform discharges as ictal rhythm such as diffuse or bilateral polyspike/spike and wave complexes (9) or diffuse theta or delta bursts (1) sometimes followed by diffuse attenuation of the background activity (2). One patient showed hemispheric polyspike wave bursts. Abnormalities in the interictal EEG were as follows; 1) 15 showed abnormal background activity, 2) interictal epileptiform discharges included generalized spike or spike wave in 9, generalized with multifocal spike in 7, focal or multifocal spike in 7. Conclusions: Fifty percent of the patients with atonic seizures experienced other types of seizures. In some cases, interictal EEG showed focal or multifocal epileptiform discharges. Therefore, VEM can be helpful for accurate diagnosis and classification of atonic seizures. 1 Mohamad Z. Koubeissi, 1 Gregory K. Bergey, 1 Christophe Jouny, and 1 Piotr Franaszczuk ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Cingulate seizures are poorly understood because their patterns of propagation may confound both the classification of clinical semiology and attempts at seizure localization. The anterior cingulate gyrus is known to have anatomic connections to temporal lobe structures, but projections from the posterior cingulate area are less established. We present a detailed analysis of seizure dynamics from intracranial recordings of repetitive seizures originating from the right posterior cingulate region and producing secondary seizure activity in the right mesial temporal structures. Methods: Depth electrode recordings were made of complex partial seizures (CPS) in a 22 year-old man with one year history of medically intractable epilepsy. His seizures were characterized by staring, automatisms, and incomprehensible speech. MRI revealed an 8.5 X 7 mm lesion of the right parietal cingulate region. PET revealed decreased activity of the right lateral temporal lobe. With scalp EEG, his CPS revealed a buildup of right temporal rhythmic spikes at 8?9 Hz. Depth electrode arrays were then placed in the right amygdala, hippocampus and cingulate lesion. Three stereotyped CPS were recorded. Ictal recordings were analyzed using the matching pursuit method which allows for detailed time-frequency decomposition of rapidly changing signals. In addition the Gabor atom density (GAD) was calculated for all seizures. GAD is a composite measure of signal complexity that has been shown to increase during epileptic seizures. Results: Each of the seizures had a stereotyped pattern of ictal dynamics. The seizures began with a right cingulate sentinel spike followed by low voltage, 40-hz activity. After 20?30 seconds, the mesial temporal depth contacts developed prominent secondary organized rhythmic activity of 6?8 Hz frequency, typical for mesial temporal lobe generators. The patient continued normal activities until the secondary right temporal involvement. GAD revealed a significant change of complexity from baseline during the earliest phase of the cingulate gamma activity and also a consistent pattern of complexity changes from both cingulate and mesial temporal contacts. Conclusions: These recurrent seizures did not produce clinical symptoms until secondary involvement of ipsilateral mesial temporal structures. This suggests connectivity between posterior cingulate regions and the temporal lobe and supports previous observations that cingulate seizures may not produce clinical symptoms without propagation to other brain regions. The dynamic analysis of the seizures revealed a stereotyped pattern of both time-frequency changes and complexity. The mesial temporal ictal evolution was a secondary pattern distinct from but always following the cingulate ictal onset. This activity can be clearly delineated by dynamical analyses. The patient is presently seizure free early after resection of this benign lesion. (Supported by NIH grant NS 33732.) 1 George R. Lee, 1 Noel P. Lim, 1 Amir Arain, and 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: We observed distinctive non-clonic unilateral rhythmic hand motions during seizures in several patients with temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing seizure monitoring. We initially considered these rhythmic hand movements to be automatisms, but noted they were contralateral to the seizure focus. Automatisms usually have no lateralizing value in temporal lobe epilepsy, but will be ipsilateral to the seizure focus if there is contralateral hand dystonic posturing. We studied these RINCH motions systematically in a consecutive series of patients. Methods: We identified thirteen patients with epilepsy who demonstrated RINCH motions and reviewed video-EEG recordings of all their seizures. We recorded time of clinical and EEG onset, time and duration of the rhythmic motions, specific character and laterality of these motions, association with other ictal signs, proportion of seizures that involved this activity, and laterality of the seizure focus. Results: RINCH motions were unilateral, rhythmic, non-clonic hand motions. The description of the movements varied between patients, but was consistent in each patient. They were either low amplitude milking, grasping, fist clenching, pill-rolling, or large amplitude opening-closing motions. The mean duration of the motions was 24 seconds with a range of 6?128 seconds. RINCH motions occurred 0?72 (mean 17.5) seconds following the onset of the electrographic seizure and 0?50 (mean 13) seconds following the onset of the clinical seizure. In the thirteen patients studied, RINCH motions were noted in 28 of 91 seizures analyzed. All patients with RINCH motions had temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). RINCH motions were followed or accompanied by posturing (dystonic or tonic) in every patient (though not in every seizure). They involved the hand contralateral to the temporal lobe of seizure onset in 12/13 patients. Only one patient demonstrated rhythmic hand movements ipsilateral to the seizure onset, and that patient had bilateral dystonic posturing consistent with contralateral seizure spread. Interestingly, RINCH motions affected the right hand in 89% (25/28) of the seizures and 10/13 patients. For each individual, the proportion of seizures with these rhythmic hand movements ranged from 6% to 100%. Based on a limited survey, we estimated that RINCH motions occur in ? 10% of patients with TLE. Conclusions: RINCH motions are a distinct ictal sign associated with posturing. They appear to be a lateralizing contralateral sign in temporal lobe epilepsy, unless bilateral dystonic posturing is present. RINCH motions are to be distinguished from automatisms, which are more likely to be ipsilateral to the seizure focus, involving the arm not affected by dystonic posturing. The mechanism of RINCH motions is unknown; evaluation of these motions in patients with implanted electrodes may help in understanding their mechanism. 1 Lawrence D. Morton, 1 Venkata V. Jakkampudi, 1 Lydia Kernitsky, 1 Alan R. Towne, and 1 William S. Corrie ( 1 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Patients with reports of ongoing seizures are often recommended for admission to an Epilepsy Monitoring Unit for Phase I evaluation to determine next most appropriate care, including possible surgical candidacy. Pressures exist from both patients and third party payers for this assessment to be carried out in the most efficient manner. Antiseizure medications are frequently withdrawn to increase the chance that sufficient events will be captured in a timely fashion. Data is limited regarding safety of this practice. Methods: All patients 18 years and older referred for seizures and seizure-like events admitted from 1/1/2000 through 12/31/2004 were reviewed. Data obtained included age, gender, admission seizure type, captured seizure type(s), including non-epileptic events, duration of admission, baseline antiseizure medications and additional medications administered (including rescue medications for acute seizures, staus epilepticus and impending status epilepticus). Patients with intracranial monitoring or history of status epilepticus were excluded from evaluation. Results: A total of 532 patients who were monitored (180 male, 352 female) had medications withdrawn or reduced. 316 patients experienced target events. 191 patients experienced seizures. A total of 29 patients received rescue therapy - 23 received lorazepam, 2 received diazepam, 2 received clonazepam, 2 received fosphenytoin. Almost all received therapy because the study was completed as an added measure was provided for safety while medications were reinstated or because, patient completed the study and was experiencing seizures above baseline frequency in a crescendo fashion. Only one patient required therapy for impending status. No one was treated for status epilepticus. One patient developed spike wave stupor which resolved spontaneously without treatment. This occurred overnight with no technologist present. Conclusions: Drug withdrawal for Phase I long term video eeg monitoring is safe. Impending status epilepticus or status epilepticus is a rare event that may be aborted with appropriate therapy. However, appropriate safeguards must be in place including intravenous access when withdrawing medication, and an ability to assess and treat rapidly. In addition, as it becomes increasingly difficult to have qualified technologists present 24 hours/day, there is a risk of nonconvulsive seizures occurring with a delay in diagnosis and hence treatment. 1 Rickey J. Reynolds, 2 Muhammad Al-Kaylani, and 3 Bassel Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ; 2 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ; and 3 Neurophysiology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy evaluated for epilepsy surgery commonly have bilateral independent interictal epileptiform discharges (IED) during prolonged EEG monitoring. This finding raises the possibility of independent epileptogenic foci. There are no established criteria to distinguish IED associated with ictal onsets from those that are not. This study is an attempt to find neurophysiological IED indicators in the pre-surgical evaluation to help distinguish a primary focus from a mirror focus which does not generate seizures. Methods: We retrospectively studied 75 patients who underwent epilepsy surgery at Vanderbilt Medical Center for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and who demonstrated successful post-surgical outcomes defined as being seizure free for at least two years. From these 75 patients, 14 were found to have bilateral IED. Only ten patients had recordings available for review. The IED were evaluated by frequency of occurrence, amplitude, and field. A side to side comparison was made for the entire group. The IED incidence, average amplitude, maximum amplitude, average field and maximum field were compared with a two-tailed t-test for the primary epileptogenic focus and the mirror focus. Results: The mean IED incidence was higher on the epileptogenic side (ratio was 7.2 to 3; p < 0.0002). In addition, the epileptogenic side demonstrated a higher mean IED amplitude (p < 0.05) as well as maximum IED amplitude (p < 0.005). The mean IED field was not significantly different for the two sides, but the maximum field was wider on the epileptogenic side (p = 0.02). Conclusions: Even though this study had a small sample size, it demonstrated that in addition to the expected higher IED incidence on the epileptogenic side, mean and maximum IED amplitude, as well as maximum IED field were greater on the epileptogenic side. It is hopeful that this data may encourage a larger prospective study to determine more accurately the significance of these easily assessed values in the pre-surgical evaluation of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. 1 Alcibiades J. Rodriguez, and 2 Elson L. So ( 1 Sleep Disorders Center/Neurology Department-Epilepsy Division, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 2 Neurology Department-Epilepsy Division, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: Temporal lobe epilepsy is the most common type of intractable seizure disorder. Seizure semiology has been shown to improve the localization of seizures for the purpose of selecting candidates for temporal lobectomy. There are no studies to date that compare the clinical manifestations of seizures occurring during wakefulness with those of seizures arising from sleep in the same temporal lobe epilepsy patient. Methods: Inclusion study criteria were: 1) excellent outcome following left or right temporal lobectomy; 2) age of >5 years; 3) both wake and sleep seizures recorded by video-EEG; 4) recordings available for review; 5) no other seizure focus identified. Thirty patients from our epilepsy surgery database consecutively met the inclusion criteria. Video-EEG recordings of wake and sleep seizures were reviewed and compared in detail. Results: Subjects consisted of 12 males and 18 females. Nineteen had left temporal lobectomy. Average age was 29.7 years. There was no statistically significant difference in the following semiologic manifestations: early unforced head turn, unilateral automatism, contralateral immobile limb, ictal speech retention, dystonic limb, tonic limb, clonic activity, late forced head turn, ?fencing? posture, ?Figure 4? posture, second late forced head turn, asymmetric clonic ending, Todd's paresis, postictal nose wiping or postictal dysphasia. Mean seizure duration was 71.7 seconds during wakefulness vs. 88.7 seconds during sleep. The difference was not statistically significant (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Within each temporal lobe epilepsy surgery patient, there is no difference in semiology between seizures that occurred during wakefulness and seizures that occurred during sleep. Temporal lobe seizures arising from sleep has localizing value similar to that of temporal lobe seizures occurring during wake. 1 Lori A. Schuh, 1 David E. Burdette, and 1 Brian Silver ( 1 Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI ) Rationale: The most effective methods for providing resident neuroscience instruction are not established. Performance on the Neurology Residency Inservice Training Exam (RITE) is predictive of performance on the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN) Part I, which is a measure of the quality of residency training (Goodman JC, et al. Neurology 2002; 58:1144?1146). We previously demonstrated the superiority of an education intervention consisting of resident presentations with weekly quizzing when the format was team oriented, emphasized performance in front of peers, and offered an incentive over a similar intervention with weekly written quizzes, confidential results, and no incentive (Schuh L, Burdette D. Neurology 2005; 64(S6):A31). We sought to confirm the effectiveness of this intervention in Neurophysiology. Methods: A prospective cohort of 17 residents from 2004?2005 were studied. The control group consisted of 44 resident data points from the RITE from 1998?2002. Residents were equally divided between 3 years of training. All residents from 1998?2005 received a minimum of 3 months training in EEG and EMG over 3 years of training and participated in the same lecture series. The additional educational program for the study cohort was a resident-prepared weekly lecture from a chosen text. Residents were divided into 2 teams. Weekly oral quizzes required every team member to answer in turn; the team with the highest cumulative points was given an incentive. Percent correct scores, individual year to year change and historical first year performance in Neurophysiology were compared with controls. Statistics used mean, standard deviation and t-test. Results: Results are presented in the Table. The study group demonstrated superior performance on the Neurophysiology section of the RITE compared to the historical control, with superior year to year improvement, but not superior first year resident performance. Conclusions: We confirmed the success of an educational format consisting of resident presentations with weekly quizzing when the format was team oriented, emphasized performance in front of peers, and offered an incentive. This format may be used by other residencies with a desire to improve RITE performance and document measurable learning under the core competency ?Medical Knowledge.? We plan to continue using this format in other courses and eventually analyze effect on ABPN pass rate. Neurophysiology Performance on RITE ?Control Group ?Study Group Statistical ?Significance Mean Percent Correct 49.4 ± 12.8 63.6 ± 17.0 p < 0.001 Mean Year to Year Difference ?8.5 ± 10.7 19.2 ± 14.0 p < 0.02? Mean Historical First Year Performance 41.6 ± 9.2? 44.2 ± 7.1? p = 0.7?? Means presented; statistical analysis performed with individual data points. 1 Romila Mushtaq, and 1 Linda M. Selwa ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Ictal SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) is a valuable diagnostic tool for localization of seizures in a presurgical evaluation of refractory epilepsy patients. At our institution, trained neurophysiology technicians are placed directly at the patient's bedside to monitor for seizure onset in order to obtain optimal ictal SPECT injection times. This creates additional demands on the institution for personnel and for financial resources. We proposed to analyze patients admitted for ictal SPECT to assess: 1)the success rate of obtaining an ictal SPECT study, 2)average time to record seizure that was injected for SPECT, 3)and average time of actual injection measure from seizure onset. Methods: A retrospective analysis was performed on all patients admitted for ictal SPECT scan between 2002?2004 utilizing inpatient charts, VEEG monitoring data, and monitoring reports generated by physicians. Patients are designated prior to admission to obtain an ictal SPECT. All patients have one seizure recorded prior to obtaining an ictal SPECT to characterize seizures. Day 1 was started as the time of admission until 11:59PM on that day. Patient admissions were analyzed to: 1) quantify the total number of successful ictal SPECT obtained, 2)duration to record the first seizure, 3)time between first and second seizure, 4)time to capture seizure for injection for ictal SPECT, and 5)time to actual injection of tracer from onset of seizure. Results: A total of 93 patients were admitted over 118 admissions to obtain ictal SPECT. Out of 118 admissions, only 23(19%) were unsuccessful at obtaining an ictal SPECT scan. The most common reason was failure to capture seizure during specific hours when SPECT can be performed. The average time to capture the first seizure was on day 2.1. The average time to capture seizure for injection was on day 4.5. Time to actual injection of tracer was calculated from the onset of clinical or EEG changes, whichever occurred first. Data was available in 80/97 successful injections, and the average injection time was 13 seconds. A total of 90% of injections occurred within 30 seconds of seizure onset. Conclusions: Early ictal SPECT injections minimize the problem of seizure propagation and of non-localization due to an early switch from ictal hyperperfusion to postictal hypoperfusion. At our institution, 81% of admissions for ictal SPECT were successfully performed, and 90% of these patients were injected with tracer within 30 seconds of seizure onset. We feel that this data justifies the utilization of trained neurophysiology personnel to monitor patients for seizure onset at the bedside when admitted for ictal SPECT scans. 1 Sona K. Shah, 1 Susan Hawes Ebesole, 1 James Tao, 1 Maria Baldwin, and 1 John Ebersole ( 1 Adult Epilepsy Center, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Non-invasive localization of epileptogenic foci by means of EEG dipole source modeling depends on there being a definable relationship between the cerebral source of an EEG spike or seizure potential and the scalp EEG voltage field that is used for the inverse solution. Validating this relationship can best be performed by simultaneously recording both intracranial and scalp EEG and correlating source location to scalp field. Determining scalp voltage fields correlated with selective sublobar sources would benefit from a technique to increase the ?signal? of the epileptiform activity from the ?noise,? which in this case is the ongoing EEG. Methods: We selected data from eight patients who had simultaneous EEG recordings from both an array of subdural electrodes encircling the temporal lobe and at least 24 scalp electrodes, including subtemporal locations bilaterally. Intracranial EEG spikes or seizure potentials of similar morphology from various circumscribed temporal lobe sources (base, tip, anterior infero-lateral, anterior and posterior lateral) were identified and used as a trigger to average the scalp EEG and thus enhance the signal to noise of any correlated scalp potential. Voltage topographic maps and single moving dipole models of the averaged scalp potentials were then calculated. Results: Discrete, sublobar intracranial EEG spikes and seizure potentials often did not have a scalp EEG correlate that was recognizable in ongoing EEG activity. Signal averaging usually resulted in a definable scalp voltage field for even small cortical sources. Temporal sources from different sublobar areas produced distinctive scalp voltage fields that were modeled by dipoles of different location and orientation. Dipole orientation, in particular, distinguished the various sublobar surfaces. Conclusions: There is a direct and definable relation between the location and orientation of a cortical spike or seizure source and the scalp voltage field it produces. Dipole and other source models of scalp EEG are therefore reasonable approaches to non-invasive localization of epileptogenic foci. Sublobar resolution should be possible given our findings. 1,3 C. A. Smith, 2 W. Trescher, 1 D. Boatman, 3 C. French, 3 K. Walsh, and 1 E. P. Vining ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins Medical School ; 2 Neurology, Kennedy Krieger Institute ; and 3 Neuropsychology, Mt Washington Pediatric Hospital ) Rationale: The study investigates the stability of neuropsychological test performance of children with Benign Epilepsy with Central-Temporal Spikes (BECTS). Children with BECTS generally have normal cognition; however, recent studies have demonstrated difficulties in various cognitive domains. It is unclear, however, whether the reported cognitive deficits are due to a fixed underlying cerebral dysfunction or if the deficits change over time, possibly related to fluctuations in interictal sharp activity. It was hypothesized that cognition would remain relatively stable over the course of 2 months. Methods: Four children were tested, ages 7?12, 2 girls and 2 boys. All were right handed and of average intelligence (FSIQ 97?112) with no history of developmental delays, learning or psychological disorders, and observed seizures within one month of initiating the study. Clinical criteria for the diagnosis of BECTS was met, including EEG sharp activity greater than 100 microvolts with a central or central-temporal distribution, and no evidence of focal slowing. Continuous EEG recordings were obtained on the same day as the neuropsychological evaluation. Subjects underwent assessment of attention, visual/verbal working memory, visual/verbal memory, receptive/expressive language, verbal fluency, visuospatial discrimination and motor abilities in a within subject, repeated-measures design. Subjects underwent repeat testing at 1?1:5 month intervals for 2 sessions (1 subject) or for 3 sessions (3 subjects). No changes in medication between sessions occurred. Results: Three subjects showed impaired visual attention across sessions (>2SD). Impaired performance (>2SD) was observed in immediate/delayed memory, visuospatial skills, response time, and auditory attention in select subjects and sessions. All subjects demonstrated significant variability (>1SD) across sessions in multiple cognitive domains of receptive/expressive language, visual/verbal memory, attention, response time, and executive abilities. Three subjects had central or central-temporal sharp activity on 1or more EEG recordings on the testing day. The observed variability in performance was not related to abnormal EEG activity or practice effect. One subject had normal EEG activity with impaired cognitive performance. The youngest, most recent onset subject had no overall impairment despite abnormal EEG; however, significant variability between sessions was noted. Conclusions: These preliminary results suggest that children with BECTS have significantly fluctuating cognition (>1SD difference) affecting attention, memory, visuospatial, and executive skills that can adversely affect their development and education. Even in a child who demonstrated no cognitive impairment, fluctuation of greater than 1SD was present, predicting alteration in academics, behavioral, and emotional functioning. 1 Christian A. Sonnefeld, 1 Adriana Palade, and 1 John F. Brick ( 1 Department of Neurology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV ) Rationale: Ictal aggression is extremely rare. We report the video EEG of two cases of aggressive behavior occurring during temporal lobe seizures. Methods: Case 1 involved a 20 year old man with a 3 year history of poorly controlled complex partial seizures. His MRI and neurological exam were normal. Interictal EEG revealed frequent right temporal sharp waves. Several seizures were captured on video EEG during which the patient exhibited destructive manifestations, improper language, and semi-purposefully striking and throwing objects. In one unprovoked typical event he struck a wall and attempted to strike his father. His language during this consisted of swearing and inappropriate words. Electrographically, rhythmic lateralized theta activity seen best over the anterior right temporal electrodes was present and began 7 seconds prior to the event. This progressed into higher frequency activity with superimposed spikes and poly-spikes over a 2 minute period. Case 2 involved a 39 year old man with a 4 year history of complex partial seizures and right temporal lobe tumor. Video EEG monitoring revealed the patient getting out of bed, turning toward his wife and motioning with his arms as if to shoot a bow and arrow at her while he makes a shooting noise. He then moves in towards her and appears to strangle her briefly. She cried out and he stepped back with a dazed look over his face. Electrographically, the seizure began with rhythmic theta activity over the right temporal electrodes, which gradually increased in amplitude and sharpness. Results: Both patients were amnestic of the events. In the second case the behavior was not the patient's typical event, having been induced by medication withdrawal. Conclusions: Ictal aggression is extremely rare, but does occur with temporal lobe seizures and probably can lead to injury to the patient or others. Medication withdrawal may lead to a new seizure type for an individual patient, including ictal aggressive behavior. 1 Patricia S. Sousa, 1 Katia Lin, 1 Gerardo M. Araujo Filho, 1 Americo C. Sakamoto, and 1 Elza Marcia T. Yacubian ( 1 Neurology, UNIPETE-UNIFESP-EPM Hospital S?o Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is the most common idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Patients with JME are very sensitive to precipitants factors (PF) such as sleep deprivation, excess of alcohol intake, and photic stimulation. More recently, other unusual PF, such as praxis, reading, writing, calculating, decision-making, speaking and playing musical instruments have been identified in patients with JME. Activation of specific cortical areas of the brain by cognitive stimuli is known to induce seizure in patients with JME. Objective: To examine the effects of higher mental activity in patients with JME, monitored with video-EEG during neuropsychological activation. Methods: Sixty-one patients with JME (35 females), treated and non-treated, underwent video-EEG recording during performance of neuropsychological tasks, which involved reading, speaking, writing, written and mental arithmetic calculation, and spatial construction. These tasks were compared to other activation methods during video-EEG: photic stimulation, hyperventilation, opening/closure of the eyes, and sleep after the tasks (without sleep deprivation). Results: All but 7 patients were treated with anti-epileptic drugs at the time of video-EEG examination. Overall, 18 patients (29.5%) had epileptiform discharges (ED) activation during at least one neuropsychological task. All non-treated patients had ED activation related to these tasks. Among 54 treated patients, 11 (20.4%) showed EEG activation. When photic stimulation and hyperventilation were included as activation methods, 35 patients (57.5%) showed increase of ED in EEG. Praxis was the most effective task (11 patients) followed by reading and writing (6) and mathematic calculation (4). Seizure was precipitated during the tests in 28 (45,9%) patients; the most common were myoclonus (22 patients ? 36.1%). Conclusions: Neuropsychological EEG activation is a useful instrument in the evaluation of treated and non-treated JME patients. It may confirm the existence of PFs and identify reflex seizures in these patients. (Supported by CAPES and FAPESP from Brazil and DAAD from Germany.) 1 Tiffany N. Townsend, 1 Beate Diehl, 1 Richard C. Burgess, and 1 Hans O. Lüders ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Epileptologists have observed that considerable differences exist between the time of first ictal EEG activity and the initial clinical manifestations of a seizure. Recording from intracranial electrodes currently offers us the earliest view of this ictal electrical activity. The window of time between ictal EEG and clinical onset is of interest because, if long enough, it might be used to accomplish some intervention, thereby aborting a seizure or diminishing the harm accompanying unavoidable seizures. Methods: A retrospective review was performed on all patients with focal epilepsy who underwent intracranial video-EEG monitoring (ICEEG) at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation between January 2003 and January 2005. For each patient demographic data was collected and the ICEEG seizure recordings were reviewed. To calculate the time difference from ictal EEG onset to clinical seizure onset, only those seizures with both clear focal EEG onsets as well as a clear clinical onsets were used. Clinical onsets were defined as one of the following: 1) patient self-report of an aura or pressing seizure button, 2)clear change in facial expression, 3) change in responsiveness as determined by interaction with others, 4)onset of automatisms 5)onset of motor seizure. In the group of patients who had >1 seizure that was analyzed, we then calculated the percentage of patients in that group who had a minimum time from EEG to clinical seizure onset of ≥ 10s in at least 80% of their seizures. Results: 31 patients who had a total of 268 seizures were studied. The mean age was 26.6, range [7?48]. The mean number of seizures recorded/patient was 8.65 (SD8.68), range [1?50]. The mean number of seizures/patient with both clear focal EEG onset and clear clinical onset was 3.32 (SD 2.81), range [0?9]. The mean time from ictal EEG onset to clinical seizure onset was 35.13s (SD 87.90), range [-2.14 to 432.42]. The subgroup of patients who had >1 seizure with both clear focal EEG onset and clear clinical onset consisted of 20 patients. In this group, 40% (n = 8) had a time from EEG to clinical seizure onset of ≥10s in at least 80% of their analyzed seizures. These patients represent 27% of the total study population. Conclusions: Our study shows that in about 27% of patients with focal epilepsy who undergo ICEEG there is a considerable time difference (>10s) between ictal ICEEG onset and clincal onset in at least 80% of their seizures. This information is useful in that it supports the rationale for creating EEG based interventions that may warn of, or prevent clinical seizure onset. 1 Amit Verma, and 1 Ian L. Goldsmith ( 1 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Vartiations in heart rate have been described during seizures by numerous authors. All this information is based on recorded seizures in patients with onset in either the dominant or nondominant hemisphere. No case has ever been reported, to our knowledge, where individual seizure onset in either hemisphere produced a different effect on heart rate in a single patient. We report a patient with bilateral seizure onset where seizure onset in the dominant (left) hemisphere was associated with asystole, while a tachycardia was seen during seizure onset from the nondominant (right) hemisphere. Methods: DK is a 35 year old right handed female with a history of a febrile convulsion at age 1 year. The patient began to experience seizures when she was in college. She initially reported having complex partial seizures associated with a ?bad taste in her mouth..? VideoEEG monitoring with bilateral sphenoidal electrodes performed in 1996 demonstrated seizure onset in the right temporal region. An MRI scan, however, demonstrated an enhancing lesion in the left frontal operculum. The patient underwent a partial resection of this lesion. The pathology was consistent with a ganglioglioma. The patient continued to have seizures, but then developed a second seizure type which she described as ?blackout spells.? Repeat video EEG monitoring in 2001 demonstrated two seizure types: 1) Seizures with onset in the left temporal region which were associated with bradycardia and asystole and 2) Seizures with onset in the right temporal region which were associated with slight increase in heart rate. Results: The patient subsequently underwent placement of a on-demand cardiac pacemaker to prevent episodes of asystole. She reported an elimination of her ?blackout spells? but continued to have her seizures associated with the ?bad taste in her mouth.? The patient had failed multiple antiepileptic drugs and subsequently underwent placement of a vagus nerve stimulator (VNS). This did not appreciably change her seizure frequency. Since the cardiac pacemaker had been implanted in the left infraclavicular region, the VNS was implanted in the right infraclavicular region with the VNS lead attached to the left vagus nerve. Conclusions: We believe this case is important to report for a variety of reasons. First, to our knowledge, no single case has ever been reported where independent seizure onset in both hemispheres has been associated with differential effects on heart rate. A volume of information exists about heart rate changes, but is all based on single sides of seizure onset in large cohorts of patients. This case may help provide more insite into the mechanism of Sudden Unexpected Death in patients with Epilepsy. Secondly, this also illustrates the safety of implantation of the VNS battery pack in the right infraclavicular region while stimulating the right vagus nerve. (Supported by Peter Kellaway Foundation For Research.) 1 Norman C. Wang, 1 Juan Ros-Escalante, and 2 Yu-tze Ng ( 1 Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ; and 2 Pediatric Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Scalp video-EEG (Phase I) studies often do not clearly localize seizure onsets. Depth wire recordings improve accuracy; however, invasive (Phase II) studies carry significant risks including, infection, hemorrhage and stroke. Earlier, non-invasive identification of nonsurgical candidates is warranted. One such population is patients with seizures arising from both left and right hemispheres independently. Various characteristics of this group of patients were examined to determine any noninvasive predictors of independent, bilateral onset seizures (IBOS) in cases that were subsequently confirmed on depth wire studies. Methods: All video-EEG monitoring reports from our epilepsy monitoring unit from 11/92 to 12/04 were reviewed. These included phase I and phase II monitored patients. Depth wire reports were examined for evidence of IBOS. Corresponding scalp EEG reports were obtained. Both reports for each patient were examined for the following data points: (1) ictal and interictal activity on scalp EEG recording, (2) MRI results, (3) seizure semiologies and (4) PET scans. Results: Of 2496 total reports, 299 depth wire cases were identified. Twenty-three (7.7%) of these demonstrated IBOS during Phase II and 3 cases were excluded due to lack of Phase I data. Twenty patients were reviewed in detail. During Phase I studies, 6 suggested IBOS with 5 showing interictal epileptiform discharges from both sides. None of 20 MRI reports had evidence of bilateral structural changes. PET scans revealed bilateral hypometabolism in only 2 of 15 cases. Thirteeen (65%) patients had two or more different seizure semiologies. During Phase II exams, there was a characteristic seizure semiology for each side of onset in only 2 patients. However, in 5 cases, the 2 observed semiology types did not correspond with a particular side of onset, and in 7 cases, there was only one seizure type despite varying onset lateralizations. More than 2 semiologies were seen in 6 cases. Conclusions: A surprisingly high number (7.7%) of patients undergoing depth electrode monitoring have IBOS. Certain noninvasive evidence suggests the findings of IBOS in Phase II studies. IBOS on scalp recordings were suggested in less than one-third of these patients but may indicate that depth wires are not indicated in this group. Further cohort studies would be necessary to determine the specificity to support this conclusion. Functional (PET) rather than structural (MRI) imaging appears more sensitive for these cases although this also occurred in a minority of cases (13.3%). Most patients (65%) had at least 2 different seizure semiologies with 6 patients (30%) having 3 or more semiologies and this may be predicitive of IBOS, although the seizure semiologies themselves did not consistently correlate with side of onset, varying widely between patients. Better recognition of patients with IBOS would prevent unnecessary depth electrode placements. 1,2,3 Randall J. Wright, 1,2,3 Amit Verma, 1,2,3 Ian L. Goldsmith, and 1?4 Eli M. Mizrahi ( 1 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 2 Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center at The Methodist Hospital, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ; 3 Department of Neurophysiology, The Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX ; and 4 Section of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: A variety of techniques are utilized to localize epileptic seizure onset in patients with complex partial seizures in order to co-register non-neurophysiologic parameters with ictal EEG findings. Some techniques such as positron emission computerized tomography (SPECT) are based on detecting an increase in regional blood flow in the area of seizure onset. Very little is known about changes in larger diameter blood vessels during seizures. Such changes in cerebral blood flow were investigated utilizing ictal transcranial doppler (TCD). Methods: Transcranial doppler was recorded during EEG-video monitoring in 2 adult patients undergoing evaluation for anterior temporal lobectomy. Bilateral TCD sensors were held in place over the temporal regions utlizing a fixed halo. Standard EEG-video monitoring protocols utlizing scalp electrodes were not altered from clinical practice for this study. Results: One seizure each was recorded from each patient. For each, there was an increase in mean blood flow velocities on the side ipsilateral to the seizure onset as determined by ictal EEG. Conclusions: This preliminary data suggests that blood flow changes during TCD monitoring during complex partial seizures may correlate to the side of seizure onset. This may provide another tool in the evaluation of candidates for epilepsy surgery allowing another non-neurophysiologic method for co-registration of functional data. In addition, since TCD reflects changes in blood flow velocities in larger diameter blood vessels, this technique may provide further insight into blood flow patterns in larger blood vessels during partial seizures. (Supported in part by the Peter Kellaway Research Endowment, Baylor College of Medicine and National Service Award Training Grant T32 NS07399, National Institutes of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIH.) 1 Elza M.T. Yacubian, 1 Luis O.S.F. Caboclo, 1 Katia Lin, 1 Eliana Garzon, and 1 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology, UNIFESP/EPM, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Ictal spitting is considered to be a rare event in epileptic seizures (1, 2), being most frequently observed in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). It may represent a lateralizing sign of non-dominant temporal lobe seizures (3). Ictal spitting may, however, be observed in seizures originating in the dominant temporal lobe (1). We report three cases of right-handed patients with TLE, with ictal spitting in seizures originating in the left temporal lobe, as confirmed by video-EEG monitoring. Methods: We reviewed charts from all patients with TLE submitted to pre-surgical evaluation, which included high resolution MRI and prolonged video-EEG monitoring, during a two-year period (2003?2004). We searched for patients who presented ictal spitting during monitoring. Results: Three patients fulfilled the criteria above. All three reported spitting automatisms in the initial clinical evaluation. The first patient was a twenty-nine year-old right-handed man with seizures since the age of two. MRI showed a severely atrophic left hippocampus. During video-EEG with scalp-sphenoidal electrodes, twelve seizures were recorded, with ictal onset clearly lateralized to the right temporal lobe. In one seizure he presented ictal spitting. Due to discordance between neurophysiologic and imaging data, the patient was submitted to a new video-EEG monitoring with foramen ovale (FO) electrodes. He had three seizures with ictal onset in the contacts of the left FO electrode, which confirmed the hypothesis of false lateralization in surface EEG, and was submitted to left anterior temporal lobectomy; after 18 months of follow-up, he is seizure-free. The second patient was a nineteen year-old right-handed man with history of febrile seizures at the age of two, and onset of epileptic seizures at the age of nine. MRI revealed left hippocampal sclerosis (HS). The patient had six seizures during video-EEG monitoring, all with ictal onset over the left temporal lobe; in all seizures he had spitting automatisms. The third patient was a twenty-six year-old right handed woman with onset of epilepsy at the age of sixteen. MRI showed left HS. She had three seizures during video-EEG monitoring, with ictal onset localized over the left temporal lobe. In one of the seizures, she presented ictal spitting. Conclusions: Spitting is an uncommon automatism in temporal lobe seizures. As we have shown in this work, it should not be considered a lateralizing sign to nondominant temporal lobe, since it may occur as a clinical manifestation of seizures originating in the left temporal lobe. (Supported by FAPESP (Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo) and CAPES (Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior)/CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico).) 1 Alexei E. Yankovsky, 1 Frederick Andermann, and 1 Francois Dubeau ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Yawning, an autonomic phenomenon, has surprisingly rarely been described in association with seizures and has not previously been documented by video-EEG. Methods: We studied a 48-year-old woman with a long history of non-dominant centro-parietal seizures who developed forceful repetitive post-ictal yawning. Results: The patient began having intractable epileptic attacks at age 18. She described five types of seizures. At 30, she underwent invasive EEG studies, which showed epileptiform abnormalities over the right parietal operculum. Brain CT and MRI were normal. A right inferior parietal and posterior temporal resection did not lead to improvement. At 31, she had a second resection at the temporal edge of the previous operation again with no improvement. The tissue showed no definite abnormality. Yawning appeared late (approximately 24 years after onset of her seizures). It was repetitive, irresistible and forceful starting from 1 to 30 seconds after the seizure offset and lasting from 5 to 60 seconds. During video telemetry it was observed after most (86%) focal sensory-motor seizures and after one third of simple sensory attacks. She was alert during all yawning episodes. A video will be presented. Conclusions: Yawning may be added to the other autonomic peri-ictal symptoms such as spitting, water drinking, vomiting, urinary urgency or coughing. There is evidence suggesting that such symptoms involve primarily the nondominant hemisphere and this may be the case for yawning as well.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ledinh, Hieu
AU  - Weekers, Laurent
AU  - Bonvoisin, Catherine
AU  - Krzesinski, Jean-Marie
AU  - Monard, Josée
AU  - de Roover, Arnaud
AU  - Squifflet, Jean Paul
AU  - Meurisse, Michel
AU  - Detry, Olivier
TI  - Results of kidney transplantation from controlled donors after cardio-circulatory death: a single center experience
JO  - Transplant International
VL  - 25
IS  - 2
SN  - 0934-0874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1432-2277.2011.01402.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1432-2277.2011.01402.x
SP  - 201
EP  - 209
KW  - brain death
KW  - organ preservation
KW  - primary graft dysfunction
KW  - risk assessment
KW  - treatment outcome
KW  - warm ischemia
PY  - 2012
AB  - Summary The aim of this study was to determine results of kidney transplantation (KT) from controlled donation after cardio-circulatory death (DCD). Primary end-points were graft and patient survival, and post-transplant complications. The influence of delayed graft function (DGF) on graft survival and DGF risk factors were analyzed as secondary end-points. This is a retrospective mono-center review of a consecutive series of 59 DCD-KT performed between 2005 and 2010. Overall graft survival was 96.6%, 94.6%, and 90.7% at 3?months, 1 and 3?years, respectively. Main cause of graft loss was patient?s death with a functioning graft. No primary nonfunction grafts. Renal graft function was suboptimal at hospital discharge, but nearly normalized at 3?months. DGF was observed in 45.6% of all DCD-KT. DGF significantly increased postoperative length of hospitalization, but had no deleterious impact on graft function or survival. Donor body mass index ≥30 was the only donor factor that was found to significantly increase the risk of DGF (P?<?0.05). Despite a higher rate of DGF, controlled DCD-KT offers a valuable contribution to the pool of deceased donor kidney grafts, with comparable mid-term results to those procured after brain death.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chua, Su-Kiat
AU  - Lo, Huey-Ming
AU  - Chiu, Chiung-Zuan
AU  - Shyu, Kou-Gi
AU  - Taiwan ACS Full Spectrum Registry Investigators
C8  - NEP-2015-0518.R2
TI  - Prognostic impact of renal dysfunction in patients with acute coronary syndrome—role beyond the CHA2DS2-VASc score: Data from Taiwan acute coronary syndrome full spectrum registry
JO  - Nephrology
JA  - Nephrology
VL  - 21
IS  - 7
SN  - 1320-5358
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nep.12653
DO  - doi:10.1111/nep.12653
SP  - 583
EP  - 591
KW  - CHA2DS2-VASc score
KW  - death
KW  - myocardial infarction
KW  - Renal dysfunction
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Aim CHA2DS2-VASc score has been proven to have great prognostic value in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We aimed to determine whether the addition of renal dysfunction in the CHA2DS2-VASc score would improve the prognostic impact of the scoring system to predict prognosis among ACS patients. Methods A total of 3031 ACS patients were prospectively enrolled at 39 hospitals and followed for 1 year. The patients were divided into three groups based on estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (group 1, eGFR>90; group 2, eGFR between 60 and 90; and group 3, eGFR<60 mL/min per 1.73 m2). The occurrence of subsequent myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, or death was recorded. Results As renal function progressively decreased from group 1 to 3, the patients were, respectively older and had higher incidence of comorbidity, worse Killip classification, and less evidence-based medical therapies. The rate of subsequent MI, stroke or death increased from 3.4% in group 1 to 7.4% in group 2 and 17.2% in group 3 (P?< 0.001). Renal dysfunction (eGFR<60 mL/min per 1.73 m2) and CHA2DS2-VASc scores were both significant predictors of adverse events in multivariable regression analyses. Renal dysfunction can further stratify patients with CHA2DS2-VASc score of 0 or 1 into 3 groups with different adverse event rates (group 1, 3.0%; group 2, 4.1%; and group 3, 9.2%, P?< 0.001). A new scoring system (R-CHA2DS2-VASc score) derived by assigning one more point for eGFR ≤ 60 mL/min per 1.73 m2 to the CHA2DS2-VASc score could improve its predictive accuracy (area under the receiver operating curve, 0.70 vs. 0.66, P?< 0.001). Conclusions Renal dysfunction is a significant risk factor of future adverse events in ACS patients and may improve the prognostic impact of the CHA2DS2-VASc score.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - O'Neill, D. G.
AU  - Scudder, C.
AU  - Faire, J. M.
AU  - Church, D. B.
AU  - McGreevy, P. D.
AU  - Thomson, P. C.
AU  - Brodbelt, D. C.
TI  - Epidemiology of hyperadrenocorticism among 210,824 dogs attending primary-care veterinary practices in the UK from 2009 to 2014
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 57
IS  - 7
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12523
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12523
SP  - 365
EP  - 373
PY  - 2016
AB  - OBJECTIVES To estimate prevalence and risk factors for diagnosis with hyperadrenocorticism in dogs attending primary-care veterinary practices in the UK from 2009 to 2014. METHODS Cases were identified by searching the de-identified electronic patient records from UK primary-care veterinary practices participating in the VetCompass Programme. RESULTS The estimated prevalence for hyperadrenocorticism diagnosis in dogs was 0·28% (95% confidence interval: 0·25 to 0·31). Multivariable logistic regression analysis revealed four associated risk factors: breed, breed-relative bodyweight, age and insurance status. The bichon frise had 6·5 times the odds (95% CI: 3·5 to 12·1, P<0·001) of hyperadrenocorticism compared with crossbreds. Dogs weighing more than or equal to their breed mean had 1·7 times the odds (95% CI: 1·3 to 2·3, P<0·001) of hyperadrenocorticism compared with dogs weighing less than the breed mean. Dogs aged 12·0 years and above showed 5·7 times the odds (95% CI: 3·7 to 8·7, P<0·001) of hyperadrenocorticism compared with dogs aged 6·0 to 8·9 years. Insured dogs had 4·0 times the odds (95% CI: 2·8 to 5·6, P<0·001) of hyperadrenocorticism compared with non-insured dogs. CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE This is the first epidemiological report of a non-referral hospital population of dogs diagnosed with hyperadrenocorticism in the UK and describes important breed, age and bodyweight associations with this disorder which may improve diagnosis and enhance understanding of the underlying pathophysiology.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - LOPES, M. A. F.
AU  - II, N. A. WHITE
TI  - Parenteral nutrition for horses with gastrointestinal disease: a retrospective study of 79 cases
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 34
IS  - 3
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/042516402776186083
DO  - doi:10.2746/042516402776186083
SP  - 250
EP  - 257
KW  - horse
KW  - parenteral nutrition
KW  - nutritional support
KW  - gastrointestinal disease
KW  - colic
PY  - 2002
AB  - Summary Parenteral nutrition is advocated for sick foals and horses, although there is no report which has critically evaluated its benefits in this species. Therefore, the hypothesis that parenteral nutrition (PN) is beneficial for horses with severe gastrointestinal disease was investigated in a retrospective study. Records from 79 treatment courses in horses with gastrointestinal disease were reviewed for the years 1992?2000. The fatality rate (48.1%) was attributed to the severity of the primary disease. Complications due to PN were recorded and hyperglycaemia was the most common complication associated with PN. The number of laparatomies, proportion of horses that received lipid emulsion and the daily cost were higher in nonsurvivors than in survivors. The length of PN course was longer in survivors, although glucose peak was observed later in nonsurvivors after initiation of PN. The content of vitamins in PN solution and plasma protein at the beginning of PN were higher for survivors, while the volume of plasma administered was significantly larger in nonsurvivors. In horses with inflammatory diseases, the rate of glucose infusion and the amount of vitamins administered were higher than in horses with nonstrangulated obstruction. The proportion of horses that received lipid emulsion was higher among those with nonstrangulated and strangulated obstruction than in the group with inflammatory conditions. Because of the diverse group of diseases and the variability in the clinical signs, evaluating the effect of PN on disease outcome was not possible. A prospective study to compare horses with similar clinical conditions treated and not treated with PN is needed to evaluate fully the benefits of PN, and to establish guidelines for patients election for PN.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tarabishy, Sami P.
AU  - Inglesby, Dani
AU  - Tapp, Marion
AU  - Corral, Gabriel Del
AU  - Herrera, Fernando A.
TI  - Thrombocytosis is associated with complications after microvascular surgery: An NSQIP data analysis
JO  - Microsurgery
JA  - Microsurgery
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 0738-1085
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/micr.30530
DO  - doi:10.1002/micr.30530
AB  - Background Complications after microvascular surgery, such as partial flap loss, and arterial/venous compromise cannot only increase morbidity for the patient but also tax the healthcare system. Thrombocytosis, both essential and reactive, can predispose patients to thrombosis and hemorrhage and thus should intuitively have an effect on the outcome of microvascular free tissue transfers. We sought to evaluate the effect of preoperative thrombocytosis on outcomes after microvascular free flap surgery. Methods A retrospective review of the 2013?2016 American Collges of Surgeons, National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP) database identified 4,299 patients who had microsurgical flaps. Of these 3,744 had preoperative platelet levels recorded. Fifty-four patients had preoperative thrombocytosis, defined as a platelet count >450?K/CUMM, while 3,690 did not. The groups were compared; demographics, comorbidities, and smoking status were recorded. We then examined outcomes between groups including average operative time, length of hospital stay, need for transfusion, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) postoperatively, and need for reoperation. Results When comparing the two cohorts, there was no statistical difference in comorbidities. We found a significant difference between the thrombocytosis and control cohort in need for transfusion (29.6 vs. 12.8%, p =?.0002), average days till discharge (8.36 vs. 5.75, p =?.009), and need for reoperation (27.8 vs. 13.8%, p =?.003). There was no difference in DVT occurrence (0 vs. 0.1%, p =?.46) or average operation time (535?m vs. 482?min, p =?.088). Conclusion Patients with thrombocytosis undergoing microvascular free flaps are at increased risk for complications, including the need for a blood transfusion, prolonged hospital stays, and reoperation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Aachmann-Andersen, Niels J.
AU  - Christensen, Soren J.
AU  - Lisbjerg, Kristian
AU  - Oturai, Peter
AU  - Johansson, Pär I.
AU  - Holstein-Rathlou, Niels-Henrik
AU  - Olsen, Niels V.
C7  - e13573
TI  - Recombinant erythropoietin acutely decreases renal perfusion and decouples the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
JO  - Physiological Reports
JA  - Physiol Rep
VL  - 6
IS  - 5
SN  - 2051-817X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.14814/phy2.13573
DO  - doi:10.14814/phy2.13573
SP  - e13573
KW  - Glomerular filtration rate
KW  - lithium clearance
KW  - recombinant erythropoietin
KW  - renal plasma flow
KW  - renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract The effect of recombinant erythropoietin (rhEPO) on renal and systemic hemodynamics was evaluated in a randomized double-blinded, cross-over study. Sixteen healthy subjects were tested with placebo, or low-dose rhEPO for 2 weeks, or high-dose rhEPO for 3 days. Subjects refrained from excessive salt intake, according to instructions from a dietitian. Renal clearance studies were done for measurements of renal plasma flow, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and the segmentel tubular handling of sodium and water (lithium clearance). rhEPO increased arterial blood pressure, total peripheral resistance, and renal vascular resistance, and decreased renal plasma flow in the high-dose rhEPO intervention and tended to decrease GFR. In spite of the decrease in renal perfusion, rhEPO tended to decrease reabsorption of sodium and water in the proximal tubule and induced a prompt decrease in circulating levels of renin and aldosterone, independent of changes in red blood cell mass, blood volumes, and blood pressure. We also found changes in biomarkers showing evidence that rhEPO induced a prothrombotic state. Our results suggest that rhEPO causes a direct downregulation in proximal tubular reabsorption that seems to decouple the activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system from changes in renal hemodynamics. This may serve as a negative feed-back mechanism on endogenous synthesis of EPO when circulating levels of EPO are high. These results demonstrates for the first time in humans a direct effect of rhEPO on renal hemodynamics and a decoupling of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Abstracts presented at the World Congress of Veterinary Anaesthesiology, September 12–16, 2006, Santos, Brazil
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 34
IS  - 4
SN  - 1467-2987
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2007.00371a.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2007.00371a.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 77
PY  - 2007
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Baugh, Christopher W.
AU  - Clark, Carol L.
AU  - Wilson, Jason W.
AU  - Stiell, Ian G.
AU  - Kocheril, Abraham G.
AU  - Luck, Krista K.
AU  - Myers, Troy D.
AU  - Pollack Jr., Charles V.
AU  - Roumpf, Steven K.
AU  - Tomassoni, Gery F.
AU  - Williams, James M.
AU  - Patel, Brian B.
AU  - Wu, Fred
AU  - Pines, Jesse M.
TI  - Creation and Implementation of an Outpatient Pathway for Atrial Fibrillation in the Emergency Department Setting: Results of an Expert Panel
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
JA  - Acad Emerg Med
VL  - 25
IS  - 9
SN  - 1069-6563
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/acem.13410
DO  - doi:10.1111/acem.13410
SP  - 1065
EP  - 1075
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Atrial fibrillation and flutter (AF) is a common condition among emergency department (ED) patients in the United States. Traditionally, ED care for primary complaints related to AF focus on rate control, and patients are often admitted to an inpatient setting for further care. Inpatient care may include further telemetry monitoring and diagnostic testing, rhythm control, a search for identification of AF etiology, and stroke prophylaxis. However, many patients are eligible for safe and effective outpatient management pathways. They are widely used in Canada and other countries but less widely adopted in the United States. In this project, we convened an expert panel to create a practical framework for the process of creating, implementing, and maintaining an outpatient AF pathway for emergency physicians to assess and treat AF patients, safely reduce hospitalization rates, ensure appropriate stroke prophylaxis, and effectively transition patients to longitudinal outpatient treatment settings from the ED and/or observation unit. To support local pathway creation, the panel also reached agreement on a protocol development plan, a sample pathway, consensus recommendations for pathway components, sample pathway metrics, and a structured literature review framework using a modified Delphi technique by a technical expert panel of emergency medicine, cardiology, and other stakeholder groups.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Naeser, J
AU  - Lichtenberger, M
AU  - Mariani, C
AU  - Thamm, DHM
AU  - Kirby, R
TI  - CLINICAL COMPARISON OF LORAZEPAM VS. DIAZEPAM IN THE CONTROL OF CANINE SEIZURES
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 14
IS  - S1
SN  - 1479-3261
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-30-04035.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-30-04035.x
SP  - S1
EP  - S17
PY  - 2004
AB  - Lorazepam is a long-acting benzodiazepine that interacts with a high degree of affinity for the GABA receptor complex. This high affinity binding in turn leads to a prolonged duration of action. There are no published clinical studies documenting its duration of action in dogs or its ability to control seizures. The purpose of this study was to compare the duration of seizure control of lorazepam with diazepam in 16 dogs presenting in status epilepticus or with active cluster seizures. Previous seizure history and anticonvulsant therapy was not a consideration for inclusion into this study. Animals were excluded if there was a known metabolic, toxic or traumatic cause of the seizure. Dogs were randomly assigned to receive either lorazepam (0.2?mg/kg IV) or diazepam (0.5?mg/kg IV), and the clinicians were blinded as to which drug they were administering. The duration of the study was 12 hours from the time of drug administration, and the animals were monitored for any indication of seizure activity, including generalized motor activity, focal motor activity (e.g., movement of facial or limb musculature) and change in the level of consciousness. The study ended at 12 hours post-study drug administration or when the dog seized before the end of the 12 hour study period. The results indicated no significant difference between lorazepam versus diazepam with regard to median seizure-free interval (2.8?h for diazepam versus 3.4?h for lorazepam, p=0.58 by log rank test), or with regard to percent seizure-free for the duration of the observation period (1/8 for lorazepam versus 3/8 for diazepam, p=0.51 by Fisher's exact test). There was also no difference between the 2 drugs regarding the number of animals in which seizures were initially controlled (6/8 in each group). Lorazepam used at this dose does not appear to result in a significant increase in duration of seizure control for dogs with status epilepticus and cluster seizures. Additional studies may be warranted using higher doses of lorazepam.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Namgoong, Sik
AU  - Jung, Suyoung
AU  - Han, Seung-Kyu
AU  - Jeong, Seong-Ho
AU  - Dhong, Eun-Sang
AU  - Kim, Woo-Kyung
TI  - Risk factors for major amputation in hospitalised diabetic foot patients
JO  - International Wound Journal
JA  - Int Wound J
VL  - 13
IS  - S1
SN  - 1742-4801
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/iwj.12526
DO  - doi:10.1111/iwj.12526
SP  - 13
EP  - 19
KW  - Diabetic foot
KW  - Major amputation
KW  - Risk factor
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Diabetic foot ulcers are the main cause of non-traumatic lower extremity amputation. The objective of this study was to evaluate the risk factors for major amputation in diabetic foot patients. Eight hundred and sixty diabetic patients were admitted to the diabetic wound centre of the Korea University Guro Hospital for foot ulcers between January 2010 and December 2013. Among them, 837 patients were successfully monitored until complete healing. Ulcers in 809 patients (96·7%) healed without major amputation and those in 28 patients (3·3%) healed with major amputation. Data of 88 potential risk factors including demographics, ulcer condition, vascularity, bioburden, neurology and serology were collected from patients in the two groups and compared. Among the 88 potential risk factors, statistically significant differences between the two groups were observed in 26 risk factors. In the univariate analysis, which was carried out for these 26 risk factors, statistically significant differences were observed in 22 risk factors. In a stepwise multiple logistic analysis, six of the 22 risk factors remained statistically significant. Multivariate-adjusted odds ratios were 11·673 for ulcers penetrating into the bone, 8·683 for dialysis, 6·740 for gastrointestinal (GI) disorders, 6·158 for hind foot ulcers, 0·641 for haemoglobin levels and 1·007 for fasting blood sugar levels. The risk factors for major amputation in diabetic foot patients were bony invasions, dialysis, GI disorders, hind foot locations, low levels of haemoglobin and elevated fasting blood sugar levels.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bonacchi, Massimo
AU  - Battaglia, Francesco
AU  - Prifti, Edvin
AU  - Giunti, Gabriele
TI  - Surgical Revascularization of Coronary Bifurcations Employing a Single Arterial Graft According to the “ω-Anastomosis” Technique:
JO  - Journal of Cardiac Surgery
VL  - 19
IS  - 5
SN  - 0886-0440
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0886-0440.2004.05004.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0886-0440.2004.05004.x
SP  - 464
EP  - 470
PY  - 2004
AB  - Abstract? Objectives: The aim of this study was to evaluate the early postoperative outcome in patients undergoing ??-anastomosis? construction, a technique that permits revascularization of coronary bifurcations employing a single arterial graft. Materials and methods: Between January 2000 and March 2002, ?-anastomosis was employed in 12 patients. The main indication for ?-anastomosis construction was the presence of a significant stenotic lesion involving one of the coronary tree's bifurcations, presenting a relevant secondary branch. There were ten men and two women, with a mean age of 55.4 ± 4.3 years (range 48 to 66). The ?-anastomosis was constructed employing a single arterial graft (internal mammary artery or radial artery) effectively tailored to obtain a bi-petal shape and anastomosed to the coronary bifurcation according to a three-foliate anastomosis. All patients underwent postoperative coronary angiography. Results: There were no hospital deaths, neither ECG nor enzymatic alterations. One patient was reoperated for excessive bleeding. The mean aortic cross-clamp time and duration of CPB (cardiopulmonary bypass) were 64 ± 18 minutes (range 45 to 108) and 89 ± 26 minutes (range 67 to 135), respectively. Thirty-four arterial conduits were used: 12 LIMA, 12 RIMA, and 10 RA. Twelve ?-anastomoses were constructed, in six patients employing the RA, and in six other patients employing one of the internal mammary arteries (IMAs). Five left Y-grafts between the in situ LIMA and free LIMA graft and one right Y-graft between the RIMA and RA were constructed. The mean ICU stay was 14.4 ± 5.7 hours. The postoperative coronary angiography revealed a good patency of the ??-anastomosis.? Transthoracic color Doppler echocardiography (TTECD) demonstrated a normal IMAs flow pattern in all cases. Conclusions: We define the reported configuration as a possible surgical alternative to achieve total arterial myocardial revascularization in multi-vessels patients, associated with excellent postoperative outcome that should be part of the coronary surgical armamentarium.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Platform Session B: Clinical Neurophysiology/Clinical Epilepsy  3:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
SP  - 264
EP  - 268
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Jose F. Tellez-Zenteno, 1 Scott B. Patten, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Studies indicate that up to 50% of patients with epilepsy have mental health disorders, with mood, anxiety, and psychotic disturbances being the most common. However, the prevalence of psychiatric illnesses in persons with epilepsy in the general population varies, owing to differences in methods, population, case ascertainment, and heterogeneity of epilepsy syndromes. We assessed the prevalence of self-reported, physician diagnosed mental health conditions associated with epilepsy in a large Canadian population health survey Methods: The Canadian Community Health Survey (CHS, N = 36,984) used probabilistic sampling to explore numerous aspects of mental health in the entire Canadian population, of whom 253 subjects had epilepsy. With sampling weights, the prevalence of epilepsy was 0.6%. Depression was ascertained with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (Short Form). Other valid scales various aspects of psychiatric comorbidity. The prevalence of drug and alcohol use, and abnormal ideation were ascertained through personal interviews. We explored age specific prevalence of mental health problems in epilepsy Results: The lifetime prevalence of depression was 22.2% (95%CI 14.0?30.4%) compared with 12.2% in the general population. The prevalence of depression in people with epilepsy was higher than in the general population in younger, but not older (>64 years) age groups. There was a marked effect of age on the prevalence of major depression (higher in younger individuals). The prevalence of social phobia was 15.8% (8.4?23.2) in people with epilepsy and 8.1% (7.6?8.5) in the general population. The 12-month prevalence of drug or alcohol dependence was not higher in people with epilepsy (3.0%) than in the general population (3.1%). Lifetime suicidal ideation was higher in patients with epilepsy 25.0% (95% CI 16.6?33.3) than in the general population 13.3% (95% CI 12.8?13.9) Conclusions: The prevalence of depression was considerable higher in younger people with epilepsy than in the general population. Social phobia and low indices of well being were more prevalent in epilepsy. We corroborated a high prevalence of suicidal ideation was in epilepsy patients. In contrast to other reports, we did not find a higher prevalence of alcohol and drug dependence in people with epilepsy. The complete analysis of mental health comorbidity will be presented 1 Miranda Geelhoed, 1 Anne Olde Boerrigter, 2 Peter R. Camfield, 1 Ada T. Geerts, 1 Willem Arts, 2 Bruce M. Smith, and 2 Carol S. Camfield ( 1 Department of Pediatric Neurology, Erasmus MC, Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, Netherlands ; and 2 Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University and IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS, Canada ) Rationale: About 50?60% of children with epilepsy eventually outgrow their seizure disorder. A number of predictive factors have been statistically associated with remission but it is unclear how accurate these factors are when applied to an individual child. Two large prospective cohort studies of childhood epilepsy (Nova Scotia and the Netherlands) each developed a statistical model to predict long-term outcome. We evaluated the accuracy of a prognostic model based on the two studies combined. Methods: A wealth of clinical and EEG variables were available for patients in both cohort studies. Data analyses with classification tree models and stepwise logistic regression produced predictive models for the combined dataset and the two separate cohorts. The resulting models were then externally validated on the opposite cohort. Remission was defined as no longer receiving daily medication for any length of time at the end of follow-up. Results: The combined cohorts yielded 1055 evaluable patients. At the end of follow up (≥5 years in >96%), 622 (59%) were in remission. Using the combined data, the classification tree model and the logistic regression model predicted the outcome (remission or no remission) correctly in approximately 70% (sensitivity ?72%, specificity?65%, positive predictive value?75%, negative predictive value ? 62%). The classification tree model split the data on epilepsy syndrome and age at first seizure. Independent statistically significant predictors in the logistic regression model were: seizure number before treatment, age at first seizure, absence seizures, epilepsy types of symptomatic generalized and symptomatic partial, pre-existing neurological signs, intelligence and the combination of febrile seizures and cryptogenic partial epilepsy. When the prediction models from each cohort were cross-validated on the opposite cohort, the outcome was predicted slightly less accurately than the model from the combined data. Conclusions: Based on currently available clinical and EEG variables, predicting the outcome of childhood epilepsy is difficult and appears to be incorrect in about one of every three patients. Predictions schemes are statistically robust but clinically relatively inaccurate. We suggest that clinicians should be cautious in applying prediction models when developing management strategies for individual children with epilepsy. 1 A. T. Berg, 2 B. G. Vickrey, 3 S. Smith, 3 F. M. Testa, 4 S. Shinnar, 3 S. R. Levy, 5 F. DiMario, and 3 B. Beckerman ( 1 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ; 2 Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Montefiore Hospital, Bronx, NY ; and 5 Neurology, CCMC, Hartford, CT ) Rationale: It is typically assumed that intractablility is evident soon after the onset of epilepsy. Retrospective histories from surgical patients, however, suggest that intractable seizures may not be evident for many years, particularly in partial epilepsy of childhood onset. Methods: In a community-based study of 613 children in Connecticut with newly diagnosed epilepsy (1993?97) prospectively followed a median of 9 years, the timing of the appearance of intractable epilepsy from date of initial diagnosis was determined. Two definitions for intractable epilepsy were used: 1) ?Strict:? 2 AED failures, ≥1 seizure/month for 18 months; 2) ?Loose:? 2 AED failures. Differences in the timing of the appearance of intractability were examined as a function of type of epilepsy syndrome. Results: Eighty-two children met the strict criteria for intractability: 38/294 (13%) of those with cryptogenic or symptomatic partial epilepsy (C/S-PE), 35/67 (52%) of those with an epileptic encephalopathy (EE) and 9/241 (4%) of those with idiopathic or other forms of epilepsy (p < 0.0001). Eleven children followed<18 months were not assigned an outcome. Twenty-five (30%) of the 82 intractable cases took >3 years to meet the strict criteria for intractability. The primary interest was in comparing EE and C/S-PE groups. Five of 35 (14%) intractable cases in the EE group versus 17/38 (45%) in the C/S-PE group met criteria at >3 years (p = 0.005). Loose criteria for intractability (2 AED failures) were met by 135 children. Of these, 32 (24%) met criteria >3 years after diagnosis: 1/46 in the EE group versus 25/69 in the C/S-PE group (p < 0.0001). In the C/S-PE group, 18/25 (72%) 25 who failed a second drug >3 years after diagnosis had experienced a 1+ year remission before the second drug failure. Conclusions: Poor seizure outcome is generally evident from the outset in the epileptic encephalopathies such as West, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. By contrast, the appearance of intractability may be delayed in cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy. Retrospective data1 suggest that with a median follow-up of 9 years, roughly a third to half the intractable cases that might occur in the cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy group have yet to declare themselves. Only continued prospective study in the current cohort, however, will reveal the eventual true burden of intractability and its time course. REFERENCE 1.?Berg AT, et al How long does it take for partial epilepsy to become intractable Neurology, 2003;60: 186?190. (Supported by NIH RO1-NS31146.) 1 Christina A. Palmese, 1 Marla J. Hamberger, 1 David Weintraub, 2 Nikolaos Scarmeas, 1 Hyunmi Choi, and 1 Lawrence J. Hirsch ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Taub Institute, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: It is well established that individuals with epilepsy frequently report memory problems and show deficits on objective memory measures. In recent years, cholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil have been shown to improve memory or delay memory decline in patients with other neurological disorders (e.g., dementia, multiple sclerosis). The purpose of this double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study was to determine whether donepezil would improve memory or other cognitive functions in epilepsy patients. Methods: Twenty-three epilepsy patients with subjective memory complaints (9 simple partial, 14 complex partial or generalized; mean age: 41 SD = 9.25; 16 males, 7 females) were tested at baseline, after 3 months on donepezil, and after 3 months on placebo. Patients were randomized into two treatment groups receiving 3 months of donepezil followed by 3 months of a placebo, or vice versa. Donepezil was started at a dose of 5mg/day for 4 weeks and increased to 10mg/day for the remaining 8 weeks. Functions tested included verbal memory (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test, Medical College of Georgia (?MCG?) story memory), visual memory (MCG Figure Memory Test), Attention (Continuous Attention Test, Stroop Test), visuomotor speed (Symbol Digit Coding), and fine motor speed and dexterity (Grooved Pegboard). Subjective memory complaints, quality of life and mood were assessed with the QOLIE-31 and Profile of Mood Scale (POMS). Change scores were calculated comparing baseline with both placebo and donepezil, and these difference scores were compared via paired sample t-tests. Results: While on donepezil, patients exhibited significantly stronger performance on MCG immediate story recall (donepezil mean change: 11.08 (SD = 11.69), placebo mean change: 6.78 (SD = 10.99), p = .04). However, they also showed poorer Stroop performance (p = .02), reported lower energy and ?vigor? (p = .01), and indicated poorer ?quality of life? (p = .01) on donepezil compared to placebo. Across donepezil and placebo treatment periods, there were no significant changes in subjective memory report or in number of side effects reported while patients were on donepezil versus placebo. There were also no significant differences in seizure frequency (p = .55). No patient reported any adverse event. Conclusions: Although patients exhibited improvement in immediate memory while on donepezil, they also exhibited worsening in attention, energy and quality of life. These results suggest that donepezil does not provide significant benefit for patients with epilepsy and subjective memory impairment, though this does not rule out possible benefit in individuals. There was no effect on seizure frequency in this study. (Supported by Pfizer Inc.) 1 Alison M. Pack, 2 Martha J. Morrell, 1 Alison Randall, 1 Silvia Done, 1 Edith Flaster, and 3 Elizabeth Shane ( 1 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA ; and 3 Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: We previously reported significant bone loss at the femoral neck of the hip in women with epilepsy receiving phenytoin (PHT) when followed for 1 year longitudinally. It has been postulated that adverse effects on bone secondary to PHT treatment are a result of enzyme inducing increased metabolism of vitamin D. We hypothesized that concentrations of vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment would be significantly lower in women treated with PHT than other AEDs including carbamazepine (CBZ), valproate (VPA), and lamotrigine (LTG). Methods: Women with epilepsy aged 18?40 receiving AED monotherapy were recruited. AEDs studied were PHT, CBZ, VPA and LTG. Subjects had baseline bone mineral density (BMD) studies as assessed by DXA and serologic measurements of calcium and vitamin D metabolites (25, hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D). Subjects were followed for 1 year and repeat studies were obtained. Correlation between change in BMD and calcium and vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment was evaluated. Results: Data was obtained from 66 women. There were 7 women receiving PHT, 27 receiving CBZ, 13 receiving VPA, and 19 receiving LTG. Serum calcium levels did not change significantly after 1 year of treatment in all AED treated groups. As we previously reported, baseline calcium levels were significantly lower in women treated with PHT, CBZ, and VPA compared to those treated with LTG. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations also did not change significantly in any of the AED treated groups. As we previously reported, there was no significant difference among baseline levels of 25, hydroxyvitamin D among the AED treated groups. Serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations were significantly higher after 1 year of treatment in LTG treated women (32.80 ? 39.55 pg/ml; p = 0.0067). Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT (31.10 ? 24.70 pg/ml). BMD loss at the femoral neck of the hip did not correlate with changes in calcium or vitamin D metabolite concentrations. Conclusions: Calcium and 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations did not change significantly in women treated with PHT, CBZ, VPA, and LTG and followed longitudinally for 1 year. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D is the most commonly used index of vitamin D status. Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT for 1 year. BMD loss did not correlate with changes in either calcium or vitamin D metabolites. The lack of significance of these findings may in part be explained by the small sample size of the PHT treated group. However, they do suggest that previously reported bone loss in PHT treated women may not be secondary to effects on vitamin D metabolism. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Douglas R. Nordli, 2 Solomon L. Moshé, 3 L. Matthew Frank, 4 John M. Pellock, 5 Darrell V. Lewis, 4 Anthony Marmarou, 6 Dale C. Hesdorffer, 2 Shlomo Shinnar, and 1?5 FEBSTAT Study Team ( 1 Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL ; 2 Montefiore, Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; 3 Children's Hospital of The King's Daughter, Norfolk, VA ; 4 Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 5 Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC ; and 6 Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: To study the role of acute EEG studies in children with febrile status epilepticus in predicting acute MRI abnormalities and later development of epilepsy and, more specifically, of subsequent mesial temporal sclerosis and temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: As part of the multi-institutional FEBSTAT study, neurological examinations, MRIs with particualr attention to the hippocampus, and EEGs were performed within 72 hours of febrile status epilepticus in children five years of age or younger. EEGs are read by two independent readers, blinded to clinical histories, and a consensus is reached. The primary outcome measure of the ongoing FEBSTAT study is the development of MTS, clinical epilepsy, or both. The study also seeks to determine if initial imaging and EEG studies can predict outcome. Results: As of April, 2005, 75 subjects have been enrolled. Consensus readings have been performed on the first 46 EEGs. Of these, 11 (24%) showed one or more abnormality. Specific findings include the following. Nine EEGs demonstrated slowing or attenuation, which was localized to the temporal lobe in 8 cases (17%). In one circumstance the attenuation involved the entire hemisphere. Two other EEGs showed diffuse slowing only. Spikes were the exclusive abnormality in only two tracings (frontal in one, and posterior temporal in the other). Temporal lobe spikes were seen along with temporal lobe slowing in only two cases. Conclusions: Focal temporal slowing, attenuation, or both is seen in 17% of children with febrile status epilepticus indicating temporal lobe dysfunction in this group. Focal epileptiform discharges were half as common. Further analysis will determine whether the acute EEG abnormalities correlate with hippocampal T2 signal abnormalities that are being seen in a significant number of children in this cohort. Additionally, the design of the study will allow us to look at the evolution of the EEG in those children at high risk for the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by NINDS NS43209: Consequences of Prolonged Febrile Seizures in Childhood.) 1 Stephan U. Schuele, 1 Adriana C. Bermeo, 1 Richard C. Burgess, 1 Dudley Dinner, and 1 Nancy Foldvary ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Ictal asystole with focal epilepsy is a rare but potentially life-threatening event and is a likely contributor to sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). Risk factors allowing early detection and intervention are unknown and ictal asystole remains an incidental finding in large monitoring populations. While there have been some inconsistent correlations (such as more frequent accompaniment to left temporal lobe seizures) semiologic characteristics associated with ictal asystole have not been described, and may be helpful in screening for high risk patients. Methods: Electronic database search of all patients undergoing longterm Video-EEG monitoring between 1994 and 2005 with episodes of aystole during simultaneous ECG acquisition. Patients with asystole during non-epileptic events (e.g. syncopal events) were excluded. Results: Ictal asystole was found in seven out of 5977 patients (0.12%) and occured in 12 out of 42 (29%) of their recorded events. Two of the patients were male and five female, mean age was 28 years (range 2 to 54 years). Asystole occured on average 41 seconds (s) after EEG onset (range 3?95 s) and was in all cases preceded by sinus bradycardia. Duration of asystole averaged 17 s (range 4?33 s). Sinus rhythm recurred spontaneously in all patients without requiring cardiac resusciation. Temporal lobe epilepsy was diagnosed in five patients, in three on the right, in one on the left and in one bilateral. Asystole in this group lasted between 4.5s and 33 s. In all five patients, episodes of sudden unresponsiveness associated with manual or oral automatism were reported as typical events. During the Video-EEG monitoring in four of these five patients, the habitual semiology was followed by a pronounced sudden loss of tone and body posture coinciding with the asystole. In the one patient without noticeable loss of tone, a generalized tonic seizure lasting more than 20s occured within five seconds after onset of the asystole. All five patients underwent pacemaker implantation. Two patients had extratemporal lobe epilepsy. One suffered from axial tonic seizures associated with a regional EEG seizure pattern over the vertex. The other one had episodes of unresponsiveness and staring associated with a left hemispheric focal epilepsy. Asystole lasted between 4s and 7s and no loss of tone was noted during Video-EEG monitoring. Conclusions: Ictal aystole is a rare but potentially life-threatening event. It is most commonly seen in patients with right or left temporal lobe epilepsy. Although a history of atonia and falls is often not obtained, loss of tone and posture can frequently be seen during Video-EEG-monitoring. Drop attacks at clinical onset have been reported in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, however a delayed sudden loss of tone is distinctly uncommon and may be revealed by a detailed history. Further cardiac monitoring in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and delayed atonia or drop attacks might be warranted. 1 Gregory D. Cascino, 1 Edward M. Manno, 2 Eric A. Pfeifer, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Eelco F.M. Wijdicks ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 2 Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: To evaluate the incidence and significance of cardiac contraction band necrosis (CBN) in patients who die during status epilepticus (SE). CBN has been observed in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and other life-threatening neurological emergencies. Massive catecholamine release may be the mechanism of CBN and cardiac arrhythmias that occur in these individuals. Methods: We retrospectively evaluated 28 patients who were derived from 54 consecutive patients with SE who underwent an autopsy between January 1975 and December 2003. The medical and pathological records were reviewed in all patients. Twenty six individuals were excluded because of an inability to confirm the diagnosis of SE or unavailability of cardiac anatomical specimens for examination. The 28 patients were divided into two groups: Group I- Died during refractory SE (n = 11), Group II- Died remote from SE (n = 17). The cardiac pathology in the two groups was compared to 22 randomly selected individuals (control group) who died without a known history of seizures. Nonconvulsive SE was confirmed by EEG studies. One investigator (EP) blinded to the clinical history and previous pathology reports reviewed the cardiac pathology slides for CBN. Results: There were no significant differences in age, gender or history of heart disease between the three patient groups. Nine of the Group I patients had generalized convulsive SE and two patients had nonconvulsive SE. Eight of the 11 patients in Group I had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p < 0.01, Fisher's exact test). Three of 17 patients in Group II had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p = 1.0, Fisher's exact test). CBN occurred more frequently in Group I patients than Group II patients (p < .01, Fisher's exact test). Conclusions: Cardiac CBN was identified in most patients in this series who died during an episode of SE. This specific anatomical pathology was uncommon in patients with a remote history of SE or an age-matched control group. This study provides compelling evidence that cardiac CBN may be a potential pathophysiology for cardiac decompensation and death in individuals with SE or seizure activity. (Supported by Mayo Foundation.) 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Francois Dubeau, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Seizures recorded with subdural grids have demonstrated high frequency activities up to 130Hz in contacts close to the seizure focus. We report localized changes in high frequency activity during seizures in patients with temporal and extra-temporal epilepsy implanted with depth macroelectrodes. Methods: Intracranial EEGs were obtained from stereotaxically-placed depth and epidural electrodes filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz in 8 consecutive patients. The epileptic zone was well-localized in 6 patients with 4 having mesial temporal (MT) and 2 having frontal neocortical foci with dysplastic lesions, and was regional or poorly localized in 2 others. Characteristic EEG sections lasting 3?10 s were selected within the seizures of each patient to reflect ictal onset, propagation and termination. Distinct high frequency (>100 Hz) segments were identified visually in the background and in the seizure sections by analyzing the expanded record dually with 50Hz and 100 Hz high-pass filters. Focal changes in high frequency activity during the seizure were also identified using spectral analysis by comparing section band powers (i.e. slow (0?40Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz)) with the background. Results: 12 seizures were analyzed from the 4 patients with MT foci, 7 from the 2 patients with neocortical foci, and 4 from the 2 patients with no definitive epileptogenic zone. Discrete, focal VHF segments were visually identified at seizure onset in 4/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone. Increased HF activity compared to the background was distinguished both visually and with spectral analysis later in the seizures of 3/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone and, in one patient, areas of contralateral peri-hippocampal propagation. The 2 patients with neocortical foci had increased HF activity confined to the epileptic zone late in their seizures, identified by visual and spectral analysis. No discrete HF or VHF activity was present in the poorly-localized seizures. Conclusions: VHF segments (fast ripples?) were consistently present in the epileptic zone early in seizures of patients with MT epilepsy. In contrast, HF activity was seen more prominently later in seizures, involving the epileptogenic areas of MT and neocortical patients, as well as areas of mesial temporal propagation. Changes in high frequency activity (100 to 500Hz) were absent in patients whose seizures were poorly-localized.This study demonstrates that changes in high frequency activity occur in regions of primary epileptogenesis and secondary spread in anatomically different foci. These activities may reflect focal synchronization of neuronal ensembles that are important in initiating or maintaining ictal activity. Moreover, absent high frequency activity seems to indicate poor localization. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Heinrich Vogt, 1 Thomas Baisch, and 1 Ian W. Mothersill ( 1 Swiss Epilepsy Center, Swiss Epilepsy Center, Zuerich, Switzerland ) Rationale: The progressive myoclonus epilepsies comprise a heterogenous group of diseases wich are clinically characterised by myoclonus with variable localisation, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, progressive dementia of variable severity and neurological symptomes, usually cerebellar. It is generally accepted that the locomotory disablement is due to cerebellar ataxia. We observed that in the course of the disease negative myoclonias are one of the most striking symptom and hypothesised that they were the main reason for locomotor disability. Methods: Negative myoclonias are very difficult to recognise without ictal polygraphic recordings in freely moving patients.We performed ictal polygraphic video-EEG-recordings (16 channel EEG, 8 channel surface EMG) in 13 patients with EPM1 (Unverricht-Lundborg Disease), proven by mutation of the CSTB Gene, 1 MERFF with a mitochondrial point mutation and 2 EPM2 (Lafora disease), proven by skin biopsy. Results: All 16 patients presented with negative myoclonias of short duration either isolated or in combination with myoclonus. They were provoked by voluntary movement. The duration of the muscular atonia was between 100 and 300 ms. Except 3 patients with EPM1 all where wheelchair bound, mainly due to fear of falls, caused by the frequent muscle atonias. Conclusions: We have shown, using simultaneous EEG/EMG recordings in freely moving patients, that the locomotor disability is in fact mainly due to negative myoclonus in voluntary innervated muscles. 1 Florian Mormann, 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Department of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: The localization of the epileptic focus from intracranial EEG recordings during the interictal period (i.e., without the necessity of observing any seizures) has been a focus of research in the past years. In addition to linear and nonlinear univariate measures, bivariate measures for synchronization have been shown to be capable of correctly lateralizing the focal hemisphere in the majority of cases. A more precise localization of the focal area, however, has not been achieved. Since the pathological neurons constituting the epileptic focus are assumed to drive the surrounding tissue, we used bivariate measures of directionality to investigate the driving influence of a focal area on the surrounding regions. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, the total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Side of focus was assessed by complete postoperative seizure control after selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Histopathological evaluation showed hippocampal sclerosis in all cases. A measure for directionality of phase coupling was calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique and then averaged over time. Results: In 26 out of 30 cases, we found a distinct region in the ipsilateral hippocampal formation that drove the surrounding regions both in the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal formation. The spatial extent of this region was usually found to range between 5 and 20 mm. Conclusions: Even during the seizure-free interval, the focus appears to be driving its surrounding areas. Its influence can be seen not only on the ipsilateral, but also on the contralateral temporal lobe. Analysis using directionality measures may allow a functional delineation of the focal area during the presurgical evaluation as a prerequisite for super-selective resection in epilepsy surgery. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1,4 Marizabel Rozas Latorre, 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2 Micah Brown, and 2,3 Don M. Tucker ( 1 Neurology, Regional Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesic, INC., Eugene, OR ; 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ; and 4 Neurología, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Lima, Peru ) Rationale: To determine the regions of cerebral cortex activated during the onset and propagation of electroencephalographic (EEG) epileptiform patterns in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). Methods: Ten patients with the clinical diagnosis of JME were included; there were three women and seven men between 16 and 38 years of age. Standard EEG studies demonstrated generalized 4?6 Hz spike-wave or multiple spike-wave discharges. In all cases the MRI and neurological exams were normal. A dense-array, 256-channel scalp EEG recorded epileptiform discharges in each patient. Source analyses of discharges were performed in all subjects, using an equivalent dipole (BESA) and two linear inverse methods (LORETA and LAURA), with results co-registered to a standard MRI model. Results: The three methods of source analyses yielded generally convergent results. In all patients epileptiform discharges engaged orbital-frontal cortex and basal-mesial temporal regions, with the left side more often involved than the right. Activation of occipital cortex was also frequent, with occasional rapid spread to superior or mesial frontal, or parietal regions. Spike components preferentially activated orbital-frontal and temporal cortex, while slow wave elements had wider distributions over the same areas. Some variations were found in propagation patterns both within and between subjects. Conclusions: Epileptiform patterns in JME patients have both localized onsets and a restricted cortical network during propagation that consistently includes orbital-frontal and basal-mesial temporal areas, with less frequent activation of occipital cortex and other regions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - van de Kamp, Jiddeke M.
AU  - Mancini, Grazia M.
AU  - Salomons, Gajja S.
TI  - X-linked creatine transporter deficiency: clinical aspects and pathophysiology
JO  - Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
JA  - J Inherit Metab Dis
VL  - 37
IS  - 5
SN  - 0141-8955
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1007/s10545-014-9713-8
DO  - doi:10.1007/s10545-014-9713-8
SP  - 715
EP  - 733
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Creatine transporter deficiency was discovered in 2001 as an X-linked cause of intellectual disability characterized by cerebral creatine deficiency. This review describes the current knowledge regarding creatine metabolism, the creatine transporter and the clinical aspects of creatine transporter deficiency. The condition mainly affects the brain while other creatine requiring organs, such as the muscles, are relatively spared. Recent studies have provided strong evidence that creatine synthesis also occurs in the brain, leading to the intriguing question of why cerebral creatine is deficient in creatine transporter deficiency. The possible mechanisms explaining the cerebral creatine deficiency are discussed. The creatine transporter knockout mouse provides a good model to study the disease. Over the past years several treatment options have been explored but no treatment has been proven effective. Understanding the pathogenesis of creatine transporter deficiency is of paramount importance in the development of an effective treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yagi, Takahito
AU  - Nobuoka, Daisuke
AU  - Shinoura, Susumu
AU  - Umeda, Yuzo
AU  - Sato, Daisuke
AU  - Yoshida, Ryuichi
AU  - Utsumi, Masashi
AU  - Fuji, Tomokazu
AU  - Sadamori, Hiroshi
AU  - Fujiwara, Toshiyoshi
TI  - First successful case of simultaneous liver and kidney transplantation for patients with chronic liver and renal failure in Japan
JO  - Hepatology Research
JA  - Hepatol Res
VL  - 44
IS  - 3
SN  - 1386-6346
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/hepr.12122
DO  - doi:10.1111/hepr.12122
SP  - 358
EP  - 363
KW  - deceased donor
KW  - kidney transplantation
KW  - liver transplantation
KW  - living donor
KW  - retransplantation
KW  - simultaneous
PY  - 2014
AB  - Establishment of a preferential liver allocation rule for simultaneous liver and kidney transplantation (SLK) and revisions of laws regarding organ transplants from deceased donors have paved the way for SLK in Japan. Very few cases of SLK have been attempted in Japan, and no such recipients have survived for longer than 40 days. The present report describes a case of a 50-year-old woman who had undergone living donor liver transplantation at the age of 38 years for management of post-partum liver failure. After the first transplant surgery, she developed hepatic vein stenosis and severe hypersplenism requiring splenectomy. She was then initiated on hemodialysis (HD) due to the deterioration of renal function after insertion of a hepatic vein stent. She was listed as a candidate for SLK in 2011 because she required frequent plasma exchange for hepatic coma. When her Model for End-stage Liver Disease score reached 46, the new liver was donated 46 days after registration. The reduced trisegment liver and the kidney grafts were simultaneously transplanted under veno-venous bypass and intraoperative HD. The hepatic artery was reconstructed prior to portal reconstruction in order to shorten anhepatic time. Although she developed subcapsular bleeding caused by hepatic contusion on the next day, subsequent hemostasis was obtained by transcatheter embolization. Thereafter, her recovery was uneventful, except for mild rejection and renal tubular acidosis of the kidney graft. This case highlights the need to establish Japanese criteria for SLK.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chen, Guo-Dong
AU  - Lai, Xing-Qiang
AU  - Ko, Dicken Shiu-Chung
AU  - Qiu, Jiang
AU  - Wang, Chang-Xi
AU  - Han, Ming
AU  - Li, Jun
AU  - Huang, Gang
AU  - He, Xiao-Shun
AU  - Chen, Li-Zhong
TI  - Comparison of efficacy and safety between rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin and anti-T lymphocyte globulin in kidney transplantation from donation after cardiac death: A retrospective cohort study
JO  - Nephrology
JA  - Nephrology
VL  - 20
IS  - 8
SN  - 1320-5358
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nep.12469
DO  - doi:10.1111/nep.12469
SP  - 539
EP  - 543
KW  - anti-T lymphocyte globulin
KW  - donation after cardiac death
KW  - kidney transplantation
KW  - rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Aim To compare the efficacy and safety between rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin (Thymoglobulin) and anti-T lymphocyte globulin (ATG-Fresenius, ATG-F) in donation after cardiac death (DCD) kidney transplantation. Methods We retrospectively analyzed 255 cases of DCD kidney transplantation performed at our hospital from February 2007 to October 2013. The patients were divided into two groups based on their induction therapies with Thymoglobulin (n?=?188) or ATG-F (n?=?67). Clinical data were collected and compared between the two groups. Results Delayed graft function (DGF) occurred in 36 (19.1%) patients in the Thymoglobulin group versus 17 (25.4%) patients in the ATG-F group (P?=?0.281). However, if we subgroup the patients with increased risk factors for DGF, the DGF rate was 9/40 (22.5%) in the Thymoglobulin group versus 9/16 (56.3%) in the ATG-F group (P?=?0.015). Duration of DGF was significantly shorter in the Thymoglobulin group (11.7 days vs. 16.1 days). The acute rejection rate was significantly lower in the Thymoglobulin group (9.6% vs. 19.4%, P?=?0.035). One-year graft and patient survival were both comparable between the Thymoglobulin and ATG-F groups. The adjusted odds ratio of DGF was 4.283 (1.137?16.13) between the ATG-F and Thymoglobulin groups in patients with increased risk factors for DGF. Conclusion Compared with ATG-F, Thymoglobulin may reduce duration of DGF and acute rejection rate after DCD kidney transplantation. Moreover, Thymoglobulin significantly reduced DGF in patients with increased risk factors for DGF.
ER  - 
