
TY  - JOUR
AU  - THOMASY, S. M.
AU  - MAMA, K. R.
AU  - WHITLEY, K.
AU  - STEFFEY, E. P.
AU  - STANLEY, S. D.
TI  - Influence of general anaesthesia on the pharmacokinetics of intravenous fentanyl and its primary metabolite in horses
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 39
IS  - 1
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/042516407X153011
DO  - doi:10.2746/042516407X153011
SP  - 54
EP  - 58
KW  - horse
KW  - analgesia
KW  - opioids
KW  - isoflurane
KW  - anaesthesia
KW  - pharmacokinetics
PY  - 2007
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study: In order to evaluate its potential as an adjunct to inhalant anaesthesia in horses, the pharmacokinetics of fentanyl must first be determined. Objectives: To describe the pharmacokinetics of fentanyl and its metabolite, N-[1-(2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl)maloanilinic acid (PMA), after i.v. administration of a single dose to horses that were awake in Treatment 1 and anaesthetised with isoflurane in Treatment 2. Methods: A balanced crossover design was used (n = 4/group). During Treatment 1, horses received a single dose of fentanyl (4 ?g/kg bwt, i.v.) and during Treatment 2, they were anaesthetised with isoflurane and maintained at 1.2 ? minimum alveolar anaesthetic concentration. After a 30 min equilibration period, a single dose of fentanyl (4 ?g/kg bwt, i.v.) was administered to each horse. Plasma fentanyl and PMA concentrations were measured at various time points using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Results: Anaesthesia with isoflurane significantly decreased mean fentanyl clearance (P < 0.05). The fentanyl elimination half-life, in awake and anaesthetised horses, was 1 h and volume of distribution at steady state was 0.37 and 0.26 l/kg bwt, respectively. Anaesthesia with isoflurane also significantly decreased PMA apparent clearance and volume of distribution. The elimination half-life of PMA was 2 and 1.5 h in awake and anaesthetised horses, respectively. Conclusions and potential relevance: Pharmacokinetics of fentanyl and PMA in horses were substantially altered in horses anaesthetised with isoflurane. These pharmacokinetic parameters provide information necessary for determination of suitable fentanyl loading and infusion doses in awake and isoflurane-anaesthetised horses.
ER  - 

AU  - Hoyles, Lesley
AU  - McCartney, Anne L.
C7  - pp. 1-22
TI  - Mobiluncus
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118960608.gbm00014
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118960608.gbm00014
SP  - 1-22
KW  - Mobiluncus
KW  - Mobiluncus curtisii
KW  - Actinomycetaceae
PY  - 2007
AB  - Mo.bi.lun'cus. L. adj. mobilis capable of movement, active; L. masc. n. uncus hook; N.L. masc. n. Mobiluncus a motile curved rod. Actinobacteria / Actinobacteria / Actinomycetales / Actinomycetaceae / Mobiluncus Curved rods with tapered ends, 1?5 ? 0.4?0.6 µm. Depending on the growth medium, cells occur singly or in pairs with a gullwing appearance. Gram-stain-negative or Gram-stain-variable. Cells are motile by means of multiple subpolar flagella (exact numbers are yet to be determined, but are thought to be between one and eight), and possess a multi-layered Gram-stain-positive cell-wall type. Endospores are not formed. Anaerobic, growing best in an enriched CO2 atmosphere. Some strains become aerotolerant after several passages, being able to grow in a partially reduced atmosphere containing 5% O2. Optimum growth at 35?37°C, with no or poor growth at 20, 43, or 45°C. Growth is stimulated by horse or rabbit serum and by whole blood. Growth is not stimulated by formate/fumarate. Slow growth on solid media. After 3 d incubation at 37°C, colonies on peptone/yeast extract/glucose/sheep blood or Columbia agar supplemented with human blood are pin-point to 1 mm in diameter. After 5 d, the colonies are larger, 1?2.5 mm in diameter, and gray-white or slightly yellowish. Cells are killed by heating at 55°C for 15 minutes. Oxidase- and catalase-negative. Weakly (terminal pH 5.5?6.5) or strongly (terminal pH <5.5) saccharolytic. Fermentation products include acetic and succinic acids, with or without lactic acid, when grown in peptone/yeast extract/glucose medium. Propionic acid is not produced. Do not produce acid from L-arabinose, D-arabitol, lactose, mannitol, methyl-?-D-galactopyranoside, or sorbitol. Negative for alkaline phosphatase, α-arabinosidase, chymotrypsin, ?-galactosidase-6-phosphate, ?-glucosidase, trypsin, and urease (RapID 32Strep), cysteine arylamidase, lipase (C14), α-mannosidase, ?-mannosidase, N-acetyl-?-glucosaminidase, glutamyl glutamic acid arylamidase, pyroglutamic acid, and valine arylamidase activity. Variable activity for phenylalanine arylamidase (weak- to strong-positive reaction). Acid phosphatase- and pyrollydonyl arylamidase-negative. Acetoin is not produced. Gelatin is not hydrolyzed. Nitrate may be reduced. Sensitive to ampicillin, cefazolin, cefoxitin, cephalothin, clindamycin, gentamicin, imipenem, moxalactam, penicillin G, rifampin, streptomycin, tobramycin, vancomycin, and virginiamycin. Resistant to colistin, cycloserine, nalidixic acid, neomycin, and mezlocillin. Associated with the human vaginal flora and bacterial vaginosis (BV). DNA G+C content (mol%): 49?52 (Tm; Spiegel and Roberts, 1984a); 50?54 (Tm; Hammann et al., 1984). Type species: Mobiluncus curtisii Spiegel and Roberts 1984a, 181VP.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Olivry, Thierry
AU  - DeBoer, Douglas J.
AU  - Favrot, Claude
AU  - Jackson, Hilary A.
AU  - Mueller, Ralf S.
AU  - Nuttall, Tim
AU  - Prélaud, Pascal
AU  - for the International Task Force on Canine Atopic Dermatitis
TI  - Treatment of canine atopic dermatitis: 2010 clinical practice guidelines from the International Task Force on Canine Atopic Dermatitis
JO  - Veterinary Dermatology
VL  - 21
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-3164.2010.00889.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-3164.2010.00889.x
SP  - 233
EP  - 248
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common chronic relapsing pruritic skin disease of dogs for which treatment has varied over time and geographical location. Recent high quality randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews have established which drugs are likely to offer consistent benefit. The International Task Force for Canine AD currently recommends a multi-faceted approach to treat dogs with AD. Acute flares should be treated with a combination of nonirritating baths and topical glucocorticoids, once an attempt has been made to identify and remove the suspected causes of the flare. Oral glucocorticoids and antimicrobial therapy must be added when needed. In dogs with chronic AD, a combination of interventions should be considered. Again, factors that trigger flares of AD must be identified and, if possible, avoided. Currently recognized flare factors include food, flea and environmental allergens, Staphylococcus bacteria and Malassezia yeast. Skin and coat hygiene and care must be improved by bathing with nonirritating shampoos and dietary supplementation with essential fatty acids. The severity of pruritus and skin lesions can be reduced with a combination of anti-inflammatory drugs. Currently, medications with good evidence of high efficacy include topical and oral glucocorticoids, and calcineurin inhibitors such as oral ciclosporin and topical tacrolimus. The dose and frequency of administration of these drugs should be tailored to each patient considering each drug?s efficacy, adverse effects and cost. Allergen-specific immunotherapy should be offered, whenever feasible, in an attempt to prevent recurrence of clinical signs upon further exposure to environmental allergens to which the patient is hypersensitive.
ER  - 

AU  - Marti, Kyriaki C.
C7  - pp. 113-123
TI  - Postnatal Considerations
SN  - 9781119286561
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119286592.ch7
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119286592.ch7
SP  - 113-123
KW  - breastfeeding
KW  - early childhood caries
KW  - health benefits
KW  - infant oral health
KW  - malocclusion development
KW  - oral hygiene
KW  - oral sedation
KW  - postnatal considerations
PY  - 2010
AB  - Summary A very important part of the postnatal period is the time of breastfeeding. It is essential that the woman who breastfeeds her infant for a shorter or longer period of time should be aware of her nutrition, psychologic, and physical health as she is directly responsible for the newborn baby. From an infant oral health standpoint, there is an ongoing discussion on two issues regarding the potential oral sequelae of breastfeeding: the potential of development of malocclusion; and early childhood caries (ECC). In an effort to prevent ECC, it has been recommended that oral hygiene should begin as soon as the first tooth appears and that the consumption of sugary beverages be minimized. Dental procedures, such as prevention and treatment of dental caries, and periodontal disease as well as endodontics, orthodontics, and prosthetics, can be safely performed during lactation and breastfeeding.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ryan, S.
AU  - Bacon, H.
AU  - Endenburg, N.
AU  - Hazel, S.
AU  - Jouppi, R.
AU  - Lee, N.
AU  - Seksel, K.
AU  - Takashima, G.
TI  - WSAVA Animal Welfare Guidelines
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 60
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781119286561
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12998
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12998
SP  - E1
EP  - E46
PY  - 2019
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - FRESTA, MASSIMO
AU  - PUGLISI, GIOVANNI
AU  - DI GIACOMO, CLAUDIA
AU  - RUSSO, ALESSANDRA
TI  - Liposomes as In-vivo Carriers for Citicoline: Effects on Rat Cerebral Post-ischaemic Reperfusion#
JO  - Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmacology
VL  - 46
IS  - 12
SN  - 9781119286561
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-7158.1994.tb03252.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-7158.1994.tb03252.x
SP  - 974
EP  - 981
PY  - 1994
AB  - Abstract? Citicoline is a therapeutic agent widely used in the treatment of brain injury, for example in cerebrovascular disease or traumatic accidents. Unfortunately, the strong polar nature of this drug prevents it crossing the blood-brain barrier. In this paper, the possibility of efficiently trapping citicoline in liposomes to improve its therapeutic effects is reported. The citicoline-encapsulation efficiency, drug leakage and size analysis of various liposome systems were studied. The real therapeutic effectiveness of these citicoline liposome formulations was evaluated by biological assay. The effects of free and liposome encapsulated citicoline on survival rate of ischaemic reperfused male Wistar rats (80?100 g) were investigated. Of the phospholipid mixtures used in citicoline liposome formulation the best in terms of delivery and therapeutic effects was 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-phosphocholine:dipalmitoyl-dl-α-phosphatidyl-l-serine: cholesterol (7:4:7 molar ratio). This phospholipid mixture was also assayed for brain conjugated diene levels in rats, since this parameter is an index of lipid peroxidation in rat cerebral cortex during post-ischaemic reperfusion. A citicoline-loaded phospholipid mixture has produced an increase in rat survival rate of about 24% and a reduction in diene levels of 60%, compared to the free drug.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Day, M.J.
AU  - Horzinek, M.C.
AU  - Schultz, R.D.
TI  - WSAVA Guidelines for the Vaccination of Dogs and Cats
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 51
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781119286561
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2010.00959a.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2010.00959a.x
SP  - e1
EP  - e32
PY  - 2010
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pałasz, Artur
AU  - Segovia, Yolanda
AU  - Skowronek, Rafał
AU  - Worthington, John J.
C7  - e22119
TI  - Molecular neurochemistry of the lanthanides
JO  - Synapse
JA  - Synapse
VL  - 73
IS  - 9
SN  - 9781119286561
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/syn.22119
DO  - doi:10.1002/syn.22119
SP  - e22119
KW  - lanthanides
KW  - neuroprotection
KW  - oxidative injury
KW  - synaptic transmission
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Lanthanides, once termed rare-earth elements, are not as sparce in the environment as their traditional name suggests. Mean litospheric concentrations are in fact comparable to the physiologically fundamental elements such as iodine, cobalt, and selenium. Recent advances in medical technology have resulted in accumulation of lanthanides presenting potential exposure to both our central and peripheral nervous systems. Extensive and detailed studies on these peculiar active metals in the context of their influence on neural functions are therefore urgently required. Almost all neurochemical effects of trivalent lanthanide ions appear to result from the similarity of their radii to the key signaling ion calcium. Lanthanides, especially La3+ and Gd3+ block different types of calcium, potassium, and sodium channels in human and animal neurons, regulate neurotransmitter turnover and release, as well as synaptic activity. Lanthanides also act as modulators of several ionotropic receptors, e.g., GABA, NMDA, and kainate and can also affect numerous signaling mechanisms including NF-?B and apoptotic-related endoplasmic reticulum IRE1-XBP1, PERK, and ATF6 pathways. Several lanthanide ions may cause oxidative neuronal injuries and functional impairment by promoting reactive oxygen species production. However, cerium and yttrium oxides have some unique and promising neuroprotective properties, being able to decrease free radical cell injury and even alleviate motor impairment and cognitive function in animal models of multiple sclerosis and mild traumatic brain damage, respectively. In conclusion, lanthanides affect various neurophysiological processes, altering a large spectrum of brain functions. Thus, a deeper understanding of their potential mechanistic roles during disease and as therapeutic agents requires urgent elucidation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stincone, Anna
AU  - Prigione, Alessandro
AU  - Cramer, Thorsten
AU  - Wamelink, Mirjam M. C.
AU  - Campbell, Kate
AU  - Cheung, Eric
AU  - Olin-Sandoval, Viridiana
AU  - Grüning, Nana-Maria
AU  - Krüger, Antje
AU  - Tauqeer Alam, Mohammad
AU  - Keller, Markus A.
AU  - Breitenbach, Michael
AU  - Brindle, Kevin M.
AU  - Rabinowitz, Joshua D.
AU  - Ralser, Markus
TI  - The return of metabolism: biochemistry and physiology of the pentose phosphate pathway
JO  - Biological Reviews
JA  - Biol Rev
VL  - 90
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119286561
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/brv.12140
DO  - doi:10.1111/brv.12140
SP  - 927
EP  - 963
KW  - pentose phosphate pathway
KW  - glycolysis
KW  - glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase
KW  - NADPH
KW  - metabolomics
KW  - oxidative stress
KW  - cancer
KW  - stem cells
KW  - host–pathogen interactions
KW  - metabolic engineering
KW  - inherited metabolic disease
KW  - parasitic protozoa
KW  - metabolism of infection
PY  - 2015
AB  - ABSTRACT The pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) is a fundamental component of cellular metabolism. The PPP is important to maintain carbon homoeostasis, to provide precursors for nucleotide and amino acid biosynthesis, to provide reducing molecules for anabolism, and to defeat oxidative stress. The PPP shares reactions with the Entner?Doudoroff pathway and Calvin cycle and divides into an oxidative and non-oxidative branch. The oxidative branch is highly active in most eukaryotes and converts glucose 6-phosphate into carbon dioxide, ribulose 5-phosphate and NADPH. The latter function is critical to maintain redox balance under stress situations, when cells proliferate rapidly, in ageing, and for the ?Warburg effect? of cancer cells. The non-oxidative branch instead is virtually ubiquitous, and metabolizes the glycolytic intermediates fructose 6-phosphate and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate as well as sedoheptulose sugars, yielding ribose 5-phosphate for the synthesis of nucleic acids and sugar phosphate precursors for the synthesis of amino acids. Whereas the oxidative PPP is considered unidirectional, the non-oxidative branch can supply glycolysis with intermediates derived from ribose 5-phosphate and vice versa, depending on the biochemical demand. These functions require dynamic regulation of the PPP pathway that is achieved through hierarchical interactions between transcriptome, proteome and metabolome. Consequently, the biochemistry and regulation of this pathway, while still unresolved in many cases, are archetypal for the dynamics of the metabolic network of the cell. In this comprehensive article we review seminal work that led to the discovery and description of the pathway that date back now for 80 years, and address recent results about genetic and metabolic mechanisms that regulate its activity. These biochemical principles are discussed in the context of PPP deficiencies causing metabolic disease and the role of this pathway in biotechnology, bacterial and parasite infections, neurons, stem cell potency and cancer metabolism.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Index of Literature
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 4
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781119286561
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1972.tb03889.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1972.tb03889.x
SP  - 102
EP  - 104
PY  - 1972
ER  - 

AU  - Wiese, Ashley
C7  - pp. 1269-1275
TI  - Go Home Analgesics
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119028994.ch198
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119028994.ch198
SP  - 1269-1275
KW  - analgesia
KW  - pain assessment
KW  - pain pathophysiology
PY  - 1972
AB  - Abstract Management of pain in the traumatized animal or in animals with emergent diseases is important in optimizing effective treatment of general disease processes. An understanding of normal animal behaviors and behaviors indicative of pain in animals is necessary for detection of painful conditions given the non-verbal nature of animals. There are a number of pain assessment tools available that, with appropriate training and education, can be implemented to effectively detect pain and track responses to therapies or interventions. In addition to an understanding of pain behaviors, a detailed understanding of the physiological changes associated with specific pain syndromes is necessary for an effective, mechanism-based approach to pain management.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Li, Ding
AU  - Isherwood, Sarah
AU  - Motz, Andrew
AU  - Zang, Ru
AU  - Yang, Shang-Tian
AU  - Wang, Jufang
AU  - Wang, Xiaoning
TI  - Cell-based screening of traditional chinese medicines for proliferation enhancers of mouse embryonic stem cells
JO  - Biotechnology Progress
JA  - Biotechnol Progress
VL  - 29
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/btpr.1731
DO  - doi:10.1002/btpr.1731
SP  - 738
EP  - 744
KW  - Chinese herbal medicine
KW  - cell-based screening
KW  - stem cell growth promoter
KW  - embryonic stem cell
KW  - proliferation
PY  - 2013
AB  - A high-throughput cell-based method was developed for screening traditional Chinese herbal medicines (TCHMs) for potential stem cell growth promoters. Mouse embryonic stem (mES) cells expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) were cultured in growth media supplemented with various TCHM extracts. The dosage-dependent effects of TCHM extracts on cell growth, including proliferation and cytotoxicity, were assessed via EGFP fluorescence measurement. Seven TCHMs were investigated, and among them Panax notoginseng (PN), Rhizoma Atractylodis macrocephalae, Rhizoma chuanxiong, and Ganoderma lucidum spores (GLS) showed potential to improve mES cell proliferation. Eleven mixtures of these four TCHMs were then studied, and the results showed that the mixture of PN and GLS had the strongest growth promoting effect, increasing the specific growth rate of mES cells by 29.5% at a low dosage of 0.01% (wt/vol) PN/GLS (P?<?0.01) and 34.2% at 0.1% (wt/vol) PN/GLS (P?<?0.05) compared to the control. The growth promoting effect of PN/GLS was further confirmed with ES cells cultured in spinner flasks. A 29.3-fold increase in the total cell number was achieved in the medium supplemented with 0.01% PN/GLS after 5 days, while the control culture only gave a 16.8-fold increase. This cell-based screening method thus can provide an efficient and high-throughput way to explore potential stem cell growth promoters from TCHMs. ? 2013 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Biotechnol. Prog., 29:738?744, 2013
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Drolz, Andreas
AU  - Saxa, Reinhard
AU  - Scherzer, Thomas
AU  - Fuhrmann, Valentin
TI  - Extracorporeal artificial liver support in hypoxic liver injury
JO  - Liver International
VL  - 31
IS  - s3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1478-3231.2011.02583.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1478-3231.2011.02583.x
SP  - 19
EP  - 23
KW  - acute liver failure
KW  - hypoxic hepatitis
KW  - ischemic hepatitis
KW  - MARS
KW  - shock liver
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract The incidence of hypoxic liver injury, most commonly referred to as hypoxic hepatitis (HH), is up to 10% in critically ill patients. In the majority of cases, HH occurs as a consequence of haemodynamic impairment following cardiogenic or septic shock. A marked, dramatic increase in the aminotransferase levels in a setting of cardiocirculatory failure is the key characteristic of HH. HH may contribute to several complications such as hepatopulmonary syndrome and hypoglycaemia. The overall mortality after the onset of HH is approximately 50?60% within 1 month. We report a case of severe HH that was successfully bridged using the Molecular Adsorbent Recirculating System. In addition to the possible effects of extracorporeal liver support devices, the recognition of HH and therapy of the underlying disease that led to the occurrence of HH is of central importance.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Marina, Neyssa
AU  - Gebhardt, Mark
AU  - Teot, Lisa
AU  - Gorlick, Richard
TI  - Biology and Therapeutic Advances for Pediatric Osteosarcoma
JO  - The Oncologist
JA  - The Oncologist
VL  - 9
IS  - 4
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1634/theoncologist.9-4-422
DO  - doi:10.1634/theoncologist.9-4-422
SP  - 422
EP  - 441
KW  - Pediatric osteosarcoma
KW  - Therapy
KW  - Biology
KW  - Multidisciplinary treatment
KW  - Therapeutic advances
PY  - 2004
AB  - Learning Objectives After completing this course, the reader will be able to: Discuss etiologic and biologic factors in osteosarcoma. Select the appropriate diagnostic work-up for patients with newly diagnosed osteosarcoma. Select appropriate multidisciplinary treatment for patients with newly diagnosed osteosarcoma. Discuss various surgical approaches to the management of newly diagnosed osteosarcoma. Access and take the CME test online and receive 1 hour of AMA PRA category 1 credit at CME.TheOncologist.com Osteosarcoma is the most common malignant bone tumor in children and adolescents. Survival for these patients was poor with the use of surgery and/or radiotherapy. The introduction of multi-agent chemotherapy dramatically improved the outcome for these patients and the majority of modern series report 3-year disease-free survival of 60%?70%. This paper describes current strategies for treating patients with osteosarcoma as well as review of the clinical features, radiologic and diagnostic work-up, and pathology. The authors review the state of the art management for patients with osteosarcoma in North America and Europe including the use of limb-salvage procedures and reconstruction as well as discuss the etiologic and biologic factors associated with tumor development. Therapy-related sequelae and future directions in the biology and therapy for these patients are also discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Platform Session B: Clinical Neurophysiology/Clinical Epilepsy  3:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
SP  - 264
EP  - 268
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Jose F. Tellez-Zenteno, 1 Scott B. Patten, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Studies indicate that up to 50% of patients with epilepsy have mental health disorders, with mood, anxiety, and psychotic disturbances being the most common. However, the prevalence of psychiatric illnesses in persons with epilepsy in the general population varies, owing to differences in methods, population, case ascertainment, and heterogeneity of epilepsy syndromes. We assessed the prevalence of self-reported, physician diagnosed mental health conditions associated with epilepsy in a large Canadian population health survey Methods: The Canadian Community Health Survey (CHS, N = 36,984) used probabilistic sampling to explore numerous aspects of mental health in the entire Canadian population, of whom 253 subjects had epilepsy. With sampling weights, the prevalence of epilepsy was 0.6%. Depression was ascertained with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (Short Form). Other valid scales various aspects of psychiatric comorbidity. The prevalence of drug and alcohol use, and abnormal ideation were ascertained through personal interviews. We explored age specific prevalence of mental health problems in epilepsy Results: The lifetime prevalence of depression was 22.2% (95%CI 14.0?30.4%) compared with 12.2% in the general population. The prevalence of depression in people with epilepsy was higher than in the general population in younger, but not older (>64 years) age groups. There was a marked effect of age on the prevalence of major depression (higher in younger individuals). The prevalence of social phobia was 15.8% (8.4?23.2) in people with epilepsy and 8.1% (7.6?8.5) in the general population. The 12-month prevalence of drug or alcohol dependence was not higher in people with epilepsy (3.0%) than in the general population (3.1%). Lifetime suicidal ideation was higher in patients with epilepsy 25.0% (95% CI 16.6?33.3) than in the general population 13.3% (95% CI 12.8?13.9) Conclusions: The prevalence of depression was considerable higher in younger people with epilepsy than in the general population. Social phobia and low indices of well being were more prevalent in epilepsy. We corroborated a high prevalence of suicidal ideation was in epilepsy patients. In contrast to other reports, we did not find a higher prevalence of alcohol and drug dependence in people with epilepsy. The complete analysis of mental health comorbidity will be presented 1 Miranda Geelhoed, 1 Anne Olde Boerrigter, 2 Peter R. Camfield, 1 Ada T. Geerts, 1 Willem Arts, 2 Bruce M. Smith, and 2 Carol S. Camfield ( 1 Department of Pediatric Neurology, Erasmus MC, Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, Netherlands ; and 2 Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University and IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS, Canada ) Rationale: About 50?60% of children with epilepsy eventually outgrow their seizure disorder. A number of predictive factors have been statistically associated with remission but it is unclear how accurate these factors are when applied to an individual child. Two large prospective cohort studies of childhood epilepsy (Nova Scotia and the Netherlands) each developed a statistical model to predict long-term outcome. We evaluated the accuracy of a prognostic model based on the two studies combined. Methods: A wealth of clinical and EEG variables were available for patients in both cohort studies. Data analyses with classification tree models and stepwise logistic regression produced predictive models for the combined dataset and the two separate cohorts. The resulting models were then externally validated on the opposite cohort. Remission was defined as no longer receiving daily medication for any length of time at the end of follow-up. Results: The combined cohorts yielded 1055 evaluable patients. At the end of follow up (≥5 years in >96%), 622 (59%) were in remission. Using the combined data, the classification tree model and the logistic regression model predicted the outcome (remission or no remission) correctly in approximately 70% (sensitivity ?72%, specificity?65%, positive predictive value?75%, negative predictive value ? 62%). The classification tree model split the data on epilepsy syndrome and age at first seizure. Independent statistically significant predictors in the logistic regression model were: seizure number before treatment, age at first seizure, absence seizures, epilepsy types of symptomatic generalized and symptomatic partial, pre-existing neurological signs, intelligence and the combination of febrile seizures and cryptogenic partial epilepsy. When the prediction models from each cohort were cross-validated on the opposite cohort, the outcome was predicted slightly less accurately than the model from the combined data. Conclusions: Based on currently available clinical and EEG variables, predicting the outcome of childhood epilepsy is difficult and appears to be incorrect in about one of every three patients. Predictions schemes are statistically robust but clinically relatively inaccurate. We suggest that clinicians should be cautious in applying prediction models when developing management strategies for individual children with epilepsy. 1 A. T. Berg, 2 B. G. Vickrey, 3 S. Smith, 3 F. M. Testa, 4 S. Shinnar, 3 S. R. Levy, 5 F. DiMario, and 3 B. Beckerman ( 1 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ; 2 Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Montefiore Hospital, Bronx, NY ; and 5 Neurology, CCMC, Hartford, CT ) Rationale: It is typically assumed that intractablility is evident soon after the onset of epilepsy. Retrospective histories from surgical patients, however, suggest that intractable seizures may not be evident for many years, particularly in partial epilepsy of childhood onset. Methods: In a community-based study of 613 children in Connecticut with newly diagnosed epilepsy (1993?97) prospectively followed a median of 9 years, the timing of the appearance of intractable epilepsy from date of initial diagnosis was determined. Two definitions for intractable epilepsy were used: 1) ?Strict:? 2 AED failures, ≥1 seizure/month for 18 months; 2) ?Loose:? 2 AED failures. Differences in the timing of the appearance of intractability were examined as a function of type of epilepsy syndrome. Results: Eighty-two children met the strict criteria for intractability: 38/294 (13%) of those with cryptogenic or symptomatic partial epilepsy (C/S-PE), 35/67 (52%) of those with an epileptic encephalopathy (EE) and 9/241 (4%) of those with idiopathic or other forms of epilepsy (p < 0.0001). Eleven children followed<18 months were not assigned an outcome. Twenty-five (30%) of the 82 intractable cases took >3 years to meet the strict criteria for intractability. The primary interest was in comparing EE and C/S-PE groups. Five of 35 (14%) intractable cases in the EE group versus 17/38 (45%) in the C/S-PE group met criteria at >3 years (p = 0.005). Loose criteria for intractability (2 AED failures) were met by 135 children. Of these, 32 (24%) met criteria >3 years after diagnosis: 1/46 in the EE group versus 25/69 in the C/S-PE group (p < 0.0001). In the C/S-PE group, 18/25 (72%) 25 who failed a second drug >3 years after diagnosis had experienced a 1+ year remission before the second drug failure. Conclusions: Poor seizure outcome is generally evident from the outset in the epileptic encephalopathies such as West, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. By contrast, the appearance of intractability may be delayed in cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy. Retrospective data1 suggest that with a median follow-up of 9 years, roughly a third to half the intractable cases that might occur in the cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy group have yet to declare themselves. Only continued prospective study in the current cohort, however, will reveal the eventual true burden of intractability and its time course. REFERENCE 1.?Berg AT, et al How long does it take for partial epilepsy to become intractable Neurology, 2003;60: 186?190. (Supported by NIH RO1-NS31146.) 1 Christina A. Palmese, 1 Marla J. Hamberger, 1 David Weintraub, 2 Nikolaos Scarmeas, 1 Hyunmi Choi, and 1 Lawrence J. Hirsch ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Taub Institute, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: It is well established that individuals with epilepsy frequently report memory problems and show deficits on objective memory measures. In recent years, cholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil have been shown to improve memory or delay memory decline in patients with other neurological disorders (e.g., dementia, multiple sclerosis). The purpose of this double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study was to determine whether donepezil would improve memory or other cognitive functions in epilepsy patients. Methods: Twenty-three epilepsy patients with subjective memory complaints (9 simple partial, 14 complex partial or generalized; mean age: 41 SD = 9.25; 16 males, 7 females) were tested at baseline, after 3 months on donepezil, and after 3 months on placebo. Patients were randomized into two treatment groups receiving 3 months of donepezil followed by 3 months of a placebo, or vice versa. Donepezil was started at a dose of 5mg/day for 4 weeks and increased to 10mg/day for the remaining 8 weeks. Functions tested included verbal memory (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test, Medical College of Georgia (?MCG?) story memory), visual memory (MCG Figure Memory Test), Attention (Continuous Attention Test, Stroop Test), visuomotor speed (Symbol Digit Coding), and fine motor speed and dexterity (Grooved Pegboard). Subjective memory complaints, quality of life and mood were assessed with the QOLIE-31 and Profile of Mood Scale (POMS). Change scores were calculated comparing baseline with both placebo and donepezil, and these difference scores were compared via paired sample t-tests. Results: While on donepezil, patients exhibited significantly stronger performance on MCG immediate story recall (donepezil mean change: 11.08 (SD = 11.69), placebo mean change: 6.78 (SD = 10.99), p = .04). However, they also showed poorer Stroop performance (p = .02), reported lower energy and ?vigor? (p = .01), and indicated poorer ?quality of life? (p = .01) on donepezil compared to placebo. Across donepezil and placebo treatment periods, there were no significant changes in subjective memory report or in number of side effects reported while patients were on donepezil versus placebo. There were also no significant differences in seizure frequency (p = .55). No patient reported any adverse event. Conclusions: Although patients exhibited improvement in immediate memory while on donepezil, they also exhibited worsening in attention, energy and quality of life. These results suggest that donepezil does not provide significant benefit for patients with epilepsy and subjective memory impairment, though this does not rule out possible benefit in individuals. There was no effect on seizure frequency in this study. (Supported by Pfizer Inc.) 1 Alison M. Pack, 2 Martha J. Morrell, 1 Alison Randall, 1 Silvia Done, 1 Edith Flaster, and 3 Elizabeth Shane ( 1 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA ; and 3 Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: We previously reported significant bone loss at the femoral neck of the hip in women with epilepsy receiving phenytoin (PHT) when followed for 1 year longitudinally. It has been postulated that adverse effects on bone secondary to PHT treatment are a result of enzyme inducing increased metabolism of vitamin D. We hypothesized that concentrations of vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment would be significantly lower in women treated with PHT than other AEDs including carbamazepine (CBZ), valproate (VPA), and lamotrigine (LTG). Methods: Women with epilepsy aged 18?40 receiving AED monotherapy were recruited. AEDs studied were PHT, CBZ, VPA and LTG. Subjects had baseline bone mineral density (BMD) studies as assessed by DXA and serologic measurements of calcium and vitamin D metabolites (25, hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D). Subjects were followed for 1 year and repeat studies were obtained. Correlation between change in BMD and calcium and vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment was evaluated. Results: Data was obtained from 66 women. There were 7 women receiving PHT, 27 receiving CBZ, 13 receiving VPA, and 19 receiving LTG. Serum calcium levels did not change significantly after 1 year of treatment in all AED treated groups. As we previously reported, baseline calcium levels were significantly lower in women treated with PHT, CBZ, and VPA compared to those treated with LTG. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations also did not change significantly in any of the AED treated groups. As we previously reported, there was no significant difference among baseline levels of 25, hydroxyvitamin D among the AED treated groups. Serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations were significantly higher after 1 year of treatment in LTG treated women (32.80 ? 39.55 pg/ml; p = 0.0067). Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT (31.10 ? 24.70 pg/ml). BMD loss at the femoral neck of the hip did not correlate with changes in calcium or vitamin D metabolite concentrations. Conclusions: Calcium and 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations did not change significantly in women treated with PHT, CBZ, VPA, and LTG and followed longitudinally for 1 year. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D is the most commonly used index of vitamin D status. Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT for 1 year. BMD loss did not correlate with changes in either calcium or vitamin D metabolites. The lack of significance of these findings may in part be explained by the small sample size of the PHT treated group. However, they do suggest that previously reported bone loss in PHT treated women may not be secondary to effects on vitamin D metabolism. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Douglas R. Nordli, 2 Solomon L. Moshé, 3 L. Matthew Frank, 4 John M. Pellock, 5 Darrell V. Lewis, 4 Anthony Marmarou, 6 Dale C. Hesdorffer, 2 Shlomo Shinnar, and 1?5 FEBSTAT Study Team ( 1 Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL ; 2 Montefiore, Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; 3 Children's Hospital of The King's Daughter, Norfolk, VA ; 4 Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 5 Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC ; and 6 Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: To study the role of acute EEG studies in children with febrile status epilepticus in predicting acute MRI abnormalities and later development of epilepsy and, more specifically, of subsequent mesial temporal sclerosis and temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: As part of the multi-institutional FEBSTAT study, neurological examinations, MRIs with particualr attention to the hippocampus, and EEGs were performed within 72 hours of febrile status epilepticus in children five years of age or younger. EEGs are read by two independent readers, blinded to clinical histories, and a consensus is reached. The primary outcome measure of the ongoing FEBSTAT study is the development of MTS, clinical epilepsy, or both. The study also seeks to determine if initial imaging and EEG studies can predict outcome. Results: As of April, 2005, 75 subjects have been enrolled. Consensus readings have been performed on the first 46 EEGs. Of these, 11 (24%) showed one or more abnormality. Specific findings include the following. Nine EEGs demonstrated slowing or attenuation, which was localized to the temporal lobe in 8 cases (17%). In one circumstance the attenuation involved the entire hemisphere. Two other EEGs showed diffuse slowing only. Spikes were the exclusive abnormality in only two tracings (frontal in one, and posterior temporal in the other). Temporal lobe spikes were seen along with temporal lobe slowing in only two cases. Conclusions: Focal temporal slowing, attenuation, or both is seen in 17% of children with febrile status epilepticus indicating temporal lobe dysfunction in this group. Focal epileptiform discharges were half as common. Further analysis will determine whether the acute EEG abnormalities correlate with hippocampal T2 signal abnormalities that are being seen in a significant number of children in this cohort. Additionally, the design of the study will allow us to look at the evolution of the EEG in those children at high risk for the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by NINDS NS43209: Consequences of Prolonged Febrile Seizures in Childhood.) 1 Stephan U. Schuele, 1 Adriana C. Bermeo, 1 Richard C. Burgess, 1 Dudley Dinner, and 1 Nancy Foldvary ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Ictal asystole with focal epilepsy is a rare but potentially life-threatening event and is a likely contributor to sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). Risk factors allowing early detection and intervention are unknown and ictal asystole remains an incidental finding in large monitoring populations. While there have been some inconsistent correlations (such as more frequent accompaniment to left temporal lobe seizures) semiologic characteristics associated with ictal asystole have not been described, and may be helpful in screening for high risk patients. Methods: Electronic database search of all patients undergoing longterm Video-EEG monitoring between 1994 and 2005 with episodes of aystole during simultaneous ECG acquisition. Patients with asystole during non-epileptic events (e.g. syncopal events) were excluded. Results: Ictal asystole was found in seven out of 5977 patients (0.12%) and occured in 12 out of 42 (29%) of their recorded events. Two of the patients were male and five female, mean age was 28 years (range 2 to 54 years). Asystole occured on average 41 seconds (s) after EEG onset (range 3?95 s) and was in all cases preceded by sinus bradycardia. Duration of asystole averaged 17 s (range 4?33 s). Sinus rhythm recurred spontaneously in all patients without requiring cardiac resusciation. Temporal lobe epilepsy was diagnosed in five patients, in three on the right, in one on the left and in one bilateral. Asystole in this group lasted between 4.5s and 33 s. In all five patients, episodes of sudden unresponsiveness associated with manual or oral automatism were reported as typical events. During the Video-EEG monitoring in four of these five patients, the habitual semiology was followed by a pronounced sudden loss of tone and body posture coinciding with the asystole. In the one patient without noticeable loss of tone, a generalized tonic seizure lasting more than 20s occured within five seconds after onset of the asystole. All five patients underwent pacemaker implantation. Two patients had extratemporal lobe epilepsy. One suffered from axial tonic seizures associated with a regional EEG seizure pattern over the vertex. The other one had episodes of unresponsiveness and staring associated with a left hemispheric focal epilepsy. Asystole lasted between 4s and 7s and no loss of tone was noted during Video-EEG monitoring. Conclusions: Ictal aystole is a rare but potentially life-threatening event. It is most commonly seen in patients with right or left temporal lobe epilepsy. Although a history of atonia and falls is often not obtained, loss of tone and posture can frequently be seen during Video-EEG-monitoring. Drop attacks at clinical onset have been reported in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, however a delayed sudden loss of tone is distinctly uncommon and may be revealed by a detailed history. Further cardiac monitoring in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and delayed atonia or drop attacks might be warranted. 1 Gregory D. Cascino, 1 Edward M. Manno, 2 Eric A. Pfeifer, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Eelco F.M. Wijdicks ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 2 Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: To evaluate the incidence and significance of cardiac contraction band necrosis (CBN) in patients who die during status epilepticus (SE). CBN has been observed in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and other life-threatening neurological emergencies. Massive catecholamine release may be the mechanism of CBN and cardiac arrhythmias that occur in these individuals. Methods: We retrospectively evaluated 28 patients who were derived from 54 consecutive patients with SE who underwent an autopsy between January 1975 and December 2003. The medical and pathological records were reviewed in all patients. Twenty six individuals were excluded because of an inability to confirm the diagnosis of SE or unavailability of cardiac anatomical specimens for examination. The 28 patients were divided into two groups: Group I- Died during refractory SE (n = 11), Group II- Died remote from SE (n = 17). The cardiac pathology in the two groups was compared to 22 randomly selected individuals (control group) who died without a known history of seizures. Nonconvulsive SE was confirmed by EEG studies. One investigator (EP) blinded to the clinical history and previous pathology reports reviewed the cardiac pathology slides for CBN. Results: There were no significant differences in age, gender or history of heart disease between the three patient groups. Nine of the Group I patients had generalized convulsive SE and two patients had nonconvulsive SE. Eight of the 11 patients in Group I had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p < 0.01, Fisher's exact test). Three of 17 patients in Group II had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p = 1.0, Fisher's exact test). CBN occurred more frequently in Group I patients than Group II patients (p < .01, Fisher's exact test). Conclusions: Cardiac CBN was identified in most patients in this series who died during an episode of SE. This specific anatomical pathology was uncommon in patients with a remote history of SE or an age-matched control group. This study provides compelling evidence that cardiac CBN may be a potential pathophysiology for cardiac decompensation and death in individuals with SE or seizure activity. (Supported by Mayo Foundation.) 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Francois Dubeau, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Seizures recorded with subdural grids have demonstrated high frequency activities up to 130Hz in contacts close to the seizure focus. We report localized changes in high frequency activity during seizures in patients with temporal and extra-temporal epilepsy implanted with depth macroelectrodes. Methods: Intracranial EEGs were obtained from stereotaxically-placed depth and epidural electrodes filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz in 8 consecutive patients. The epileptic zone was well-localized in 6 patients with 4 having mesial temporal (MT) and 2 having frontal neocortical foci with dysplastic lesions, and was regional or poorly localized in 2 others. Characteristic EEG sections lasting 3?10 s were selected within the seizures of each patient to reflect ictal onset, propagation and termination. Distinct high frequency (>100 Hz) segments were identified visually in the background and in the seizure sections by analyzing the expanded record dually with 50Hz and 100 Hz high-pass filters. Focal changes in high frequency activity during the seizure were also identified using spectral analysis by comparing section band powers (i.e. slow (0?40Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz)) with the background. Results: 12 seizures were analyzed from the 4 patients with MT foci, 7 from the 2 patients with neocortical foci, and 4 from the 2 patients with no definitive epileptogenic zone. Discrete, focal VHF segments were visually identified at seizure onset in 4/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone. Increased HF activity compared to the background was distinguished both visually and with spectral analysis later in the seizures of 3/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone and, in one patient, areas of contralateral peri-hippocampal propagation. The 2 patients with neocortical foci had increased HF activity confined to the epileptic zone late in their seizures, identified by visual and spectral analysis. No discrete HF or VHF activity was present in the poorly-localized seizures. Conclusions: VHF segments (fast ripples?) were consistently present in the epileptic zone early in seizures of patients with MT epilepsy. In contrast, HF activity was seen more prominently later in seizures, involving the epileptogenic areas of MT and neocortical patients, as well as areas of mesial temporal propagation. Changes in high frequency activity (100 to 500Hz) were absent in patients whose seizures were poorly-localized.This study demonstrates that changes in high frequency activity occur in regions of primary epileptogenesis and secondary spread in anatomically different foci. These activities may reflect focal synchronization of neuronal ensembles that are important in initiating or maintaining ictal activity. Moreover, absent high frequency activity seems to indicate poor localization. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Heinrich Vogt, 1 Thomas Baisch, and 1 Ian W. Mothersill ( 1 Swiss Epilepsy Center, Swiss Epilepsy Center, Zuerich, Switzerland ) Rationale: The progressive myoclonus epilepsies comprise a heterogenous group of diseases wich are clinically characterised by myoclonus with variable localisation, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, progressive dementia of variable severity and neurological symptomes, usually cerebellar. It is generally accepted that the locomotory disablement is due to cerebellar ataxia. We observed that in the course of the disease negative myoclonias are one of the most striking symptom and hypothesised that they were the main reason for locomotor disability. Methods: Negative myoclonias are very difficult to recognise without ictal polygraphic recordings in freely moving patients.We performed ictal polygraphic video-EEG-recordings (16 channel EEG, 8 channel surface EMG) in 13 patients with EPM1 (Unverricht-Lundborg Disease), proven by mutation of the CSTB Gene, 1 MERFF with a mitochondrial point mutation and 2 EPM2 (Lafora disease), proven by skin biopsy. Results: All 16 patients presented with negative myoclonias of short duration either isolated or in combination with myoclonus. They were provoked by voluntary movement. The duration of the muscular atonia was between 100 and 300 ms. Except 3 patients with EPM1 all where wheelchair bound, mainly due to fear of falls, caused by the frequent muscle atonias. Conclusions: We have shown, using simultaneous EEG/EMG recordings in freely moving patients, that the locomotor disability is in fact mainly due to negative myoclonus in voluntary innervated muscles. 1 Florian Mormann, 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Department of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: The localization of the epileptic focus from intracranial EEG recordings during the interictal period (i.e., without the necessity of observing any seizures) has been a focus of research in the past years. In addition to linear and nonlinear univariate measures, bivariate measures for synchronization have been shown to be capable of correctly lateralizing the focal hemisphere in the majority of cases. A more precise localization of the focal area, however, has not been achieved. Since the pathological neurons constituting the epileptic focus are assumed to drive the surrounding tissue, we used bivariate measures of directionality to investigate the driving influence of a focal area on the surrounding regions. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, the total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Side of focus was assessed by complete postoperative seizure control after selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Histopathological evaluation showed hippocampal sclerosis in all cases. A measure for directionality of phase coupling was calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique and then averaged over time. Results: In 26 out of 30 cases, we found a distinct region in the ipsilateral hippocampal formation that drove the surrounding regions both in the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal formation. The spatial extent of this region was usually found to range between 5 and 20 mm. Conclusions: Even during the seizure-free interval, the focus appears to be driving its surrounding areas. Its influence can be seen not only on the ipsilateral, but also on the contralateral temporal lobe. Analysis using directionality measures may allow a functional delineation of the focal area during the presurgical evaluation as a prerequisite for super-selective resection in epilepsy surgery. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1,4 Marizabel Rozas Latorre, 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2 Micah Brown, and 2,3 Don M. Tucker ( 1 Neurology, Regional Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesic, INC., Eugene, OR ; 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ; and 4 Neurología, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Lima, Peru ) Rationale: To determine the regions of cerebral cortex activated during the onset and propagation of electroencephalographic (EEG) epileptiform patterns in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). Methods: Ten patients with the clinical diagnosis of JME were included; there were three women and seven men between 16 and 38 years of age. Standard EEG studies demonstrated generalized 4?6 Hz spike-wave or multiple spike-wave discharges. In all cases the MRI and neurological exams were normal. A dense-array, 256-channel scalp EEG recorded epileptiform discharges in each patient. Source analyses of discharges were performed in all subjects, using an equivalent dipole (BESA) and two linear inverse methods (LORETA and LAURA), with results co-registered to a standard MRI model. Results: The three methods of source analyses yielded generally convergent results. In all patients epileptiform discharges engaged orbital-frontal cortex and basal-mesial temporal regions, with the left side more often involved than the right. Activation of occipital cortex was also frequent, with occasional rapid spread to superior or mesial frontal, or parietal regions. Spike components preferentially activated orbital-frontal and temporal cortex, while slow wave elements had wider distributions over the same areas. Some variations were found in propagation patterns both within and between subjects. Conclusions: Epileptiform patterns in JME patients have both localized onsets and a restricted cortical network during propagation that consistently includes orbital-frontal and basal-mesial temporal areas, with less frequent activation of occipital cortex and other regions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - OUSEY, J. C.
AU  - KÖLLING, M.
AU  - KINDAHL, H.
AU  - ALLEN, W. R.
TI  - Maternal dexamethasone treatment in late gestation induces precocious fetal maturation and delivery in healthy Thoroughbred mares
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 43
IS  - 4
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.2010.00306.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.2010.00306.x
SP  - 424
EP  - 429
KW  - horse
KW  - fetus
KW  - maturation
KW  - glucocorticoids
KW  - endocrine
KW  - parturition
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study: The foal requires an active hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis for organ maturation and post natal survival. Prenatal administration of synthetic glucocorticoids may provide an effective method for inducing fetal maturation safely in the mare. Objectives: To determine whether dexamethasone administered to late pregnant mares: 1) will induce fetal maturation and precocious delivery; 2) is safe to use and 3) to identify endocrine responses in the mare and foal. Methods: Pregnant Thoroughbred mares received either 100?mg dexamethasone i.m. (treated n = 5) or 50?ml saline i.m. (control n = 5) at 315, 316 and 317 days of gestation. Plasma progestagens, cortisol and prostaglandin F2α metabolite (PGFM) concentrations were measured before and after treatment. The foals were weighed, the crown-rump length (CRL) measured and an adrenal stimulation test performed on Day 1. Results: Dexamethasone significantly (P<0.01) reduced gestation length in treated mares without apparent adverse effects. Plasma progestagens increased (P<0.05), and cortisol and PGFM (P<0.05) decreased, following dexamethasone treatment compared with control mares. Foals were clinically mature but those from dexamethasone treated mares had reduced (P<0.05) CRL, but not bodyweights, compared with controls. Their cortisol concentrations increased following exogenous adrenocorticotrophic hormone stimulation but 2 foals from dexamethasone treated mares showed evidence of adrenal suppression. Conclusions: Dexamethasone stimulates precocious fetal maturation and delivery in healthy late pregnant mares. However, fetal HPA activity may be suppressed. Potential relevance: Dexamethasone treatment could be used to improve foal viability in mares at risk of preterm delivery. The endocrine effects of such a therapy must be evaluated before clinical intervention with glucocorticoids can be recommended.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Månsson, Emeli
AU  - Söderquist, Bo
AU  - Nilsdotter-Augustinsson, Åsa
AU  - Särndahl, Eva
AU  - Demirel, Isak
TI  - Staphylococcus epidermidis from prosthetic joint infections induces lower IL-1β release from human neutrophils than isolates from normal flora
JO  - APMIS
JA  - APMIS
VL  - 126
IS  - 8
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/apm.12861
DO  - doi:10.1111/apm.12861
SP  - 678
EP  - 684
KW  - Staphylococcus epidermidis
KW  - prosthesis-related infections/pathology
KW  - host–pathogen interactions/immunology
KW  - caspase-1
KW  - interleukin-1beta
PY  - 2018
AB  - The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that Staphylococcus epidermidis isolated from prosthetic joint infections (PJIs) differs from S. epidermidis isolated from normal flora in terms of its capacity to induce activation of caspase-1 and release of IL-1? in human neutrophils. The amount of active caspase-1 was determined over 6 h by detecting Ac-YVAD-AMC fluorescence in human neutrophils incubated with S. epidermidis isolates from PJIs (ST2) or normal flora. The amount of IL-1? was detected by ELISA in neutrophil supernatants after 6 h of incubation. Mean IL-1? release was lower after incubation with S. epidermidis from PJIs compared to isolates from normal flora, but no statistically significant difference was found in active caspase-1. Substantial inter-individual differences in both active caspase-1 and IL-1? were noted. These results suggest that evasion of innate immune response, measured as reduced capacity to induce release of IL-1? from human neutrophils, might be involved in the predominance of ST2 in S. epidermidis PJIs, but that other microbe-related factors are probably also important.
ER  - 

AU  - Mathews, Karol
AU  - Grubb, Tamara
AU  - Steele, Andrea
C7  - pp. 454-464
TI  - Environmental Injuries
SN  - 9781119036562
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119036500.ch34
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119036500.ch34
SP  - 454-464
KW  - analgesic requirements
KW  - cardiovascular support
KW  - environmental injuries
KW  - hyperthermia
KW  - porcupine quill injury
KW  - respiratory distress
KW  - systemic myolysis
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary There are many, and an assortment of, environmental injuries that cats and dogs may incur. Analgesic requirements must be based on the patient at hand, the level of consciousness, core temperature, associated injuries and pain behaviours exhibited. Opioids are the analgesic of choice and must be titrated to affect to avoid a ?relative? overdose. While pain is not associated with hyperthermia, associated injuries, either traumatic or subsequent to organ involvement, will cause pain. Cardiovascular support is critical since hyperthermia causes decreased cardiac output, hypotension and tachyarrhythmia. ?Near-drowning? will result in a degree of respiratory distress where intubation and oxygenation may be indicated and general anesthesia required. Pain associated with envenomation results mostly from local and systemic myolysis. While the majority of quills may be easily visualized, there is always one or more that is detected by palpation/stroking in a retrograde direction.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Day, M. J.
AU  - Horzinek, M. C.
AU  - Schultz, R. D.
AU  - Squires, R. A.
TI  - WSAVA Guidelines for the vaccination of dogs and cats
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 57
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119036562
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.2_12431
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.2_12431
SP  - E1
EP  - E45
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Barber, Fionna
TI  - Hybrid Histories: Alice Maher
JO  - Art History
VL  - 26
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119036562
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0141-6790.2003.02603005.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0141-6790.2003.02603005.x
SP  - 406
EP  - 421
PY  - 2003
AB  - This interview with the Irish artist Alice Maher raises questions around issues of Irishness, gender and hybridity in contemporary practice. Shifts in Maher's work from Neo-Expressionist painting in the mid-1980s to a more inclusive range of practices such as drawing, object-making or installation are also situated in relation to an ongoing project of the deconstruction of reductive tropes of Irish ethnicity. Her early work in Belfast involved a confrontation of the difficulties for a Southern Irish Catholic to position herself in relation to the ongoing political conflict in Northern Ireland. Neo-Expressionism is discussed as a strategy for the resistance to the oppressive treatment of Irish women by the Catholic Church. Maher's concern with female identity in this context then involved a shift towards an oblique engagement with Irish ethnicity through a concern with the multi-layered significance of landscape, focused around a series of site-specific works executed in France in the mid-1990s. These works have, in turn, for Maher, developed into a hybrid practice as a means of articulating more nuanced readings of Irish identity. The materials used in recent work ? hair, tears, lambs' tongues ? however, represent both a selective engagement with the abject and a performance of the primitive ? a problematic area in terms of the ethnocentric categorizations of Irish femininity, yet one of whose contradictions Maher is fully aware.
ER  - 
