
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gupte, A. A.
AU  - Hocevar, S. N.
AU  - Lea, A. S.
AU  - Kulkarni, R. D.
AU  - Schain, D. C.
AU  - Casey, M. J.
AU  - Zendejas-Ruiz, I. R.
AU  - Chung, W. K.
AU  - Mbaeyi, C.
AU  - Roy, S. L.
AU  - Visvesvara, G. S.
AU  - da Silva, A. J.
AU  - Tallaj, J.
AU  - Eckhoff, D.
AU  - Baddley, J. W.
TI  - Transmission of Balamuthia mandrillaris Through Solid Organ Transplantation: Utility of Organ Recipient Serology to Guide Clinical Management
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 14
IS  - 6
SN  - 1600-6135
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.12726
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.12726
SP  - 1417
EP  - 1424
KW  - Amebic encephalitis
KW  - Balamuthia mandrillaris
KW  - donor-derived infection
KW  - miltefosine
PY  - 2014
AB  - A liver, heart, iliac vessel and two kidneys were recovered from a 39-year-old man who died of traumatic head injury and were transplanted into five recipients. The liver recipient 18 days posttransplantation presented with headache, ataxia and fever, followed by rapid neurologic decline and death. Diagnosis of granulomatous amebic encephalitis was made on autopsy. Balamuthia mandrillaris infection was confirmed with immunohistochemical and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays. Donor and recipients' sera were tested for B. mandrillaris antibodies. Donor brain was negative for Balamuthia by immunohistochemistry and PCR; donor serum Balamuthia antibody titer was positive (1:64). Antibody titers in all recipients were positive (range, 1:64?1:512). Recipients received a four- to five-drug combination of miltefosine or pentamidine, azithromycin, albendazole, sulfadiazine and fluconazole. Nausea, vomiting, elevated liver transaminases and renal insufficiency were common. All other recipients survived and have remained asymptomatic 24 months posttransplant. This is the third donor-derived Balamuthia infection cluster described in solid organ transplant recipients in the United States. As Balamuthia serologic testing is only available through a national reference laboratory, it is not feasible for donor screening, but may be useful to determine exposure status in recipients and to help guide chemotherapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - OUSEY, J. C.
AU  - KÖLLING, M.
AU  - KINDAHL, H.
AU  - ALLEN, W. R.
TI  - Maternal dexamethasone treatment in late gestation induces precocious fetal maturation and delivery in healthy Thoroughbred mares
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 43
IS  - 4
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.2010.00306.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.2010.00306.x
SP  - 424
EP  - 429
KW  - horse
KW  - fetus
KW  - maturation
KW  - glucocorticoids
KW  - endocrine
KW  - parturition
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study: The foal requires an active hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis for organ maturation and post natal survival. Prenatal administration of synthetic glucocorticoids may provide an effective method for inducing fetal maturation safely in the mare. Objectives: To determine whether dexamethasone administered to late pregnant mares: 1) will induce fetal maturation and precocious delivery; 2) is safe to use and 3) to identify endocrine responses in the mare and foal. Methods: Pregnant Thoroughbred mares received either 100?mg dexamethasone i.m. (treated n = 5) or 50?ml saline i.m. (control n = 5) at 315, 316 and 317 days of gestation. Plasma progestagens, cortisol and prostaglandin F2α metabolite (PGFM) concentrations were measured before and after treatment. The foals were weighed, the crown-rump length (CRL) measured and an adrenal stimulation test performed on Day 1. Results: Dexamethasone significantly (P<0.01) reduced gestation length in treated mares without apparent adverse effects. Plasma progestagens increased (P<0.05), and cortisol and PGFM (P<0.05) decreased, following dexamethasone treatment compared with control mares. Foals were clinically mature but those from dexamethasone treated mares had reduced (P<0.05) CRL, but not bodyweights, compared with controls. Their cortisol concentrations increased following exogenous adrenocorticotrophic hormone stimulation but 2 foals from dexamethasone treated mares showed evidence of adrenal suppression. Conclusions: Dexamethasone stimulates precocious fetal maturation and delivery in healthy late pregnant mares. However, fetal HPA activity may be suppressed. Potential relevance: Dexamethasone treatment could be used to improve foal viability in mares at risk of preterm delivery. The endocrine effects of such a therapy must be evaluated before clinical intervention with glucocorticoids can be recommended.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rahman, M.H.
AU  - McGoldrick, M.D.
AU  - Haqqie, S.S.
TI  - Acute hemolysis and renal failure associated with charcoal hemoperfusion for valproic acid intoxication
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 1492-7535
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ba.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ba.x
SP  - 89
EP  - 89
PY  - 2005
AB  - Charcoal hemoperfusion is an effective treatment in acute drug intoxication with small volume of distribution. For certain drugs, clearance rates are higher with hemoperfusion than hemodialysis. We describe a patient with severe valproic acid overdose who developed severe hemolysis and acute renal failure related to charcoal hemoperfusion treatment. A 50-year-old female was admitted to the hospital following valproic acid overdose. Initial valproic acid level was 73.6?mg/L, and she was treated with oral activated charcoal. Four hours later she developed mental status changes with valproic acid level at 490.9?mg/L and prolonged QT interval. Charcoal hemoperfusion was started with blood flow rate 400?ml/min. Patient developed bleeding with evidence of severe Before(*C.H.) After (C.H.) Hemoglobin 12.1?gm/DL 7.6?gm/DL Hematocrit 35.5?gm/DL 21.1?gm/DL Platelet count 268,000 tho/ul 43,000?tho/ul L.D.H 90?IU/L 2494?IU/L Valproic Acid 490.9?mg/L 74.1?mg/L * C.H. (Charcoal Hemoperfusion) Blood ? evidence of massive hemolysis intra-vascular hemolysis, shown in table (no evidence of HUS/TTP). She received transfusion of packed red blood cells, platelets, and fibrin. Over the next few days she developed oligouric acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis for 2 weeks. Eventually hemolysis resolved and the renal function improved (kidney biopsy was consistent with acute tubular necrosis). To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of severe intravascular hemolysis occurring during the charcoal hemoperfusion treatment. Etiology includes mechanical trauma to the red cells, probably related to high blood flow rate through the charcoal column.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mason, S. L.
AU  - Fisher, C.
AU  - Ressel, L.
AU  - Bommer, N. X.
AU  - Buckley, L. M.
AU  - Nuttall, T.
TI  - Presentation, clinical pathological and post-mortem findings in three related Scottish terriers with ligneous membranitis
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 57
IS  - 5
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12443
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12443
SP  - 271
EP  - 276
PY  - 2016
AB  - Ligneous conjunctivitis and gingivitis were diagnosed in three related Scottish terrier dogs presented for investigation of severe conjunctivitis and respiratory signs. Hypoplasminogenaemia was confirmed in one of the three affected dogs. Supportive treatment was not effective, and the dogs died or were euthanased because of the disease. Post-mortem analysis of two of the dogs revealed multiple abnormalities including severe proliferative fibrinous lesions affecting the conjunctiva, gingiva, trachea, larynx and epicardium and multiple fibrous adhesions throughout the thoracic and abdominal cavities. One dog had internal hydrocephalus and lacked a cerebellar vermis. Ligneous membranitis was confirmed on histopathology. This is a rare condition in dogs but an important differential diagnosis for severe conjunctivitis and gingivitis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Curran, T.-I.
AU  - Cronin, O.
AU  - Coffey, F. T.
AU  - Keohane, D. M.
AU  - McCarthy, Y.
AU  - Dahly, D. L.
AU  - Molloy, M. G.
AU  - Falvey, E. C.
TI  - Physiological adaptations in ultra-endurance athletes during a 5-day multisport Adventure Race: An assessment of serological and inflammatory cytokine profiles
JO  - Translational Sports Medicine
JA  - Transl Sports Med
VL  - 1
IS  - 3
SN  - 2573-8488
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/tsm2.25
DO  - doi:10.1002/tsm2.25
SP  - 120
EP  - 131
KW  - adventure racing
KW  - endurance exercise
KW  - sports medicine
PY  - 2018
AB  - Multiday endurance sports expose athletes to multiple physical stressors. Little is known about the athletes? physiological responses to these stressors. A detailed understanding of the serological changes that occur during competition may improve the treatment of athletes suffering from illness or injury. This prospective, observational study aimed to characterize serological changes in AR athletes across multiday competition. Athletes underwent venipuncture at the start, midpoint, and end of a 5-day, multidiscipline event. A variety of serological and inflammatory factors was measured and then analyzed to describe their changes over the course of the race. A total of 27 AR athletes (29.6% female, 70.4% male) met inclusion criteria out of 33 recruited initially. The mean age was 37.7 (IQR 32.5, 41). The median race time for athletes was 133 hours (IQR 123, 142). Serum creatinine, sodium, and potassium tended to remain stable as the race progressed. Conversely, serological measures, including hemoglobin, interleukin-6, and C-reactive protein levels, tended to change substantially during the race. Participants demonstrated the ability to maintain homeostasis, despite significant physiological threat. Renal function, electrolyte balance, and hormonal profiles were stable. However, a pro-inflammatory response and decrease in red cell availability were evident by the midpoint of the race.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sheriff, Michael J.
AU  - Krebs, Charles J.
AU  - Boonstra, Rudy
TI  - The ghosts of predators past: population cycles and the role of maternal programming under fluctuating predation risk
JO  - Ecology
VL  - 91
IS  - 10
SN  - 0012-9658
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1890/09-1108.1
DO  - doi:10.1890/09-1108.1
SP  - 2983
EP  - 2994
KW  - free-ranging mammal
KW  - Lepus americanus
KW  - low phase
KW  - Lynx canadensis
KW  - maternal effects
KW  - maternal programming
KW  - nongenetic phenotypic effects
KW  - predation risk
KW  - snowshoe hare
KW  - stress
KW  - ten-year cycle
KW  - Yukon
KW  - Canada
PY  - 2010
AB  - Maternal effects may be a major factor influencing the demography of populations. In mammals, the transmission of stress hormones between mother and offspring may play an important role in these effects. Laboratory studies have shown that stressors during pregnancy and lactation result in lifelong programming of the offspring phenotype. However, the relevance of these studies to free-living mammals is unclear. The 10-year snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) cycle is intimately linked to fluctuating predation pressure and predation risk. The enigma of these cycles is the lack of population growth following the decline phase, when the predators have virtually all disappeared and the food supply is ample. We have shown that a predator-induced increase in maternal stress hormone levels resulted in a decline in reproduction. Here we examine population and hormone changes over a four-year period from the increase (2005) to the decline (2008). We report (1) that an index of maternal stress (fecal corticosteroid metabolite [FCM] concentrations) fluctuates in synchrony with predator density during the breeding season; (2) that maternal FCM levels are echoed in their offspring, and this occurs at a population-wide level; and (3) that higher maternal FCM levels at birth are correlated with an increased responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in their progeny. Our results show an intergenerational inheritance of stress hormones in a free-ranging population of mammals. We propose that the lack of recovery of reproductive rates during the early low phase of the hare cycle may be the result of the impacts of intergenerational, maternally inherited stress hormones caused by high predation risk during the decline phase.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Alhamdi, Yasir
AU  - Toh, Cheng-Hock
TI  - The role of extracellular histones in haematological disorders
JO  - British Journal of Haematology
JA  - Br J Haematol
VL  - 173
IS  - 5
SN  - 0007-1048
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bjh.14077
DO  - doi:10.1111/bjh.14077
SP  - 805
EP  - 811
KW  - extracellular histones
KW  - nucleosomes
KW  - neutrophil extracellular traps
KW  - cell death
KW  - thrombin
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Over the past decades, chromosomal alterations have been extensively investigated for their pathophysiological relevance in haematological malignancies. In particular, epigenetic modifications of intra-nuclear histones are now known as key regulators of healthy cell cycles that have also evolved into novel therapeutic targets for certain blood cancers. Thus, for most haematologists, histones are DNA-chained proteins that are buried deep within chromatin. However, the plot has deepened with recent revelations on the function of histones when unchained and released extracellularly upon cell death or from activated neutrophils as part of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Extracellular histones and NETs are increasingly recognized for profound cytotoxicity and pro-coagulant effects. This article highlights the importance of recognizing this new paradigm of extracellular histones as a key player in host defence through its damage-associated molecular patterns, which could translate into novel diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers in various haematological and critical disorders.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Plenary II: Surgical Controversies 9:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 49
IS  - s7
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
SP  - 497
EP  - 497
PY  - 2008
AB  - Robert E. Gross*, David W. Loring?, John T. Langfitt?, George A. Ojemann?, André Olivier? and Christoph Helmstaedter??*Department of Neurosurgery, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA; ?McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL; ?Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY; ?Department of Neurosurgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; ?Division of Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada and ?Bereich Neuropsychologie, Universitätsklinik für Epileptologie, Bonn, Germany Summary: The surgical treatment of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) by amygdalo-hippocampectomy (AH) has a high likelihood of yielding a seizure-free outcome and associated improvement in quality-of-life. Nevertheless, there are several important areas of controversy with regard to the surgical approach, differences of which may impact the rate of success and the incidence of adverse effects. Cognitive sequelae of temporal lobe surgery may result from (1) resection or transgression of the lateral (neocortical) temporal lobe or the temporal stem, which may lead to impairment in learning, and/or (2) resection of mesial structures, which may lead to decline in material-specific memory. The recent multi-center clinical trial analyzing the predictors of post-surgical quality-of-life will be discussed, including the finding that improvement depends on seizure-freedom irrespective of the occurrence of verbal memory decline. Nevertheless, it is incumbent on surgeons to minimize the occurrence of these cognitive sequelae while maximizing the possibility of seizure-freedom. Several approaches to gain access to the mesial structures will be compared with regard to cognitive outcome, including anterior temporal lobectomy (standard vs. tailored), trans-cortical selective AH and trans-sylvian selective AH, which differ in terms of their disruption of the temporal neocortex and temporal stem. Alternative approaches to the mesial resection will be compared with regard to seizure-free rates and the incidence of post-surgical decline in memory, including tailoring the hippocampal resection to the presence of inter-ictal epileptic spikes vs. performing a standardized resection, and the influence of the amount of hippocampal tissue resected. Open discussion of recent results addressing these important issues will hopefully either propel the field towards consensus, or highlight the need for further randomized clinical trials to improve patient outcome following amygdalo-hippocampectomy for MTLE.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Monday, December 4, 2006 Platform Highlights Session A 3:45 p.m.–5:45 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 47
IS  - s4
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_1.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00001_1.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 7
PY  - 2006
AB  - 1 Kristen M. Fowler, 2 Joseph M. Massaro, 3 Cynthia L. Harden, 4 Michael R. Sperling, 5 Page B. Pennell, 1 Donald L. Schomer, 4 Joyce D. Liporace, 3 Blagovast Nikolov, 4 Gwendolyn Taylor, 5 Melanee Newman, and 1 Andrew G. Herzog ( 1 Harvard Neuroendocrine Unit, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ; 2 Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, MA ; 3 Neurology, Weill Cornell Medical School, New York, NY ; 4 Neurology, Thomas Jefferson University Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA ; and 5 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Past observations in small studies have suggested that seizures may not occur randomly in the majority of women with epilepsy. They often tend to cluster (Tauboll et al. 1991; Bauer et al. 2001; Haut S et al. 2006). Systematic investigations in large prospective investigations, however, are lacking. The purpose of this investigation was to determine the distribution of seizure occurrence in women with localization related epilepsy. Methods: The present data come from the first 100 women, aged 13?45, who were participating in the baseline phase of a multicenter investigation of supplemental progesterone therapy for the treatment of intractable seizures in women with localization related epilepsy. The women recorded seizures and menses during 3 baseline menstrual cycles. A midluteal progesterone level ≥ 5 ng/ml was used to identify ovulatory cycles. The goodness of fit of the Poisson distribution to the distribution of seizures during the combined three-cycle observation period in each woman with ≥10 seizures was tested by chi square analysis. ?2 values >5.99 identified women with nonrandom seizure distributions. Nonrandom distributions were further categorized as uniform (variance/mean < 1) or clustered (variance/mean >1). Results were similar to an alternative method of testing nonrandom distributions against a uniform distribution for each subject using the Pearson chi square statistic with categorization as clustered if p value was ≤ .05. Results: 75 women had ≥10 seizures over the 3 month observation period. Seizure distributions in these 75 women were random in 29 (38.7%). Among the remaining 46 (61.3%) who had non-random distributions, 6 (8.0%) had uniform distributions and 40 (53.3%) had clustered distributions. Clustering was significantly more pronounced among women with anovulatory cycles than among women with ovulatory cycles (variance/mean ± 2 SD = 6.1 ± 5.3 vs 2.2 ± 1.7; t-test for independent samples: p = .006). No correlation was demonstrated between clustering and age of subjects, age of epilepsy onset, duration of epilepsy, EEG laterality and individual AEDs. Conclusions: The preliminary findings of this prospective study suggest that the majority (53.3%) of women with localization related epilepsy have clustered seizure distributions and that clustering may be significantly more common with anovulatory than ovulatory cycles. (Supported by NIH RO1 NS39466.) 1 Mark Quigg, 2 Nicholas M. Barbaro, 3 Kenneth D. Laxer, 2 Marianne L. Ward, and Epilepsy Radiosurgery Study Group ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; 2 Neurological Surgery, University of California San Francisco, Charlottesville, VA ; and 3 Neurology, University California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKS) offers an alternative to open surgery for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), but its safety and efficacy are not well-established. We report the two year outcome on seizure remission and morbidities of a multicenter, prospective pilot study of GKS. Methods: Patients had unilateral MTLE as determined by standard presurgical evaluation. GKS, randomized to 20 Gy or 24 Gy comprising 5.0?7.5mL at the 50% isodose volume, was performed on mesial structures including the amygdala, hippocampus, and parahippocampal gyrus. Treatment plans were approved at a central site to insure uniformity of lesions. Patients and primary treating physicians were blinded to dose. Regular visits with seizure diaries were obtained for 3 months at presurgical baseline and postoperatively for every three months until 18m, then at 24m. Patients were counted as ?seizure-free? if no seizures (excluding auras) occurred between visits 18m-24m. Any subject that was not available for analysis was considered not seizure-free. Results: Of 40 planned enrollments, 30 qualified resulting in 13 subjects in the high dose and 17 in the low dose group. 1 patient was lost to follow-up soon after treatment. 1 subject in the low-dose group underwent standard lobectomy after not being seizure-free 24 months following treatment. 1 subject experienced papilledema that responded partially to dexamethasone and underwent temporal lobectomy. Reductions in seizure frequency were seen in the high-dose group at 3, 6, 15, 18, and 24 months and for the low-dose group at 12, 15, 18, and 24 months (Wilcoxon signed rank test). Thus, both groups showed significant reductions in seizures at approximately one year following treatment. The low-dose group showed a seizure-free response at 24 months of ? 60% and the high-dose group response was ? 80% at 24 months. Although there is a difference in the seizure-free rates for the two treatment groups, the Fisher's Exact Test using a 2-sided p value indicates that the difference in percentage seizure-free for the two groups is not statistically significant (p = 0.1194), a conclusion limited by the low power to resolve differences between treatment groups. Rates of steroid treatment, new headaches, and visual field defects did not differ between dose or seizure-outcome groups. Conclusions: GKS may offer a safe and effective alternative to standard open surgery for unilateral MTLE. High-dose GKS may be more effective than low-dose without additional morbidity. Disadvantages of GKS include latency to seizure-freedom. Further work is required to determine which patients may benefit from GKS. (Supported by NIH R01 NS039280; Elekta AB (Stockholm, Sweden).) 1 Miao Liu, and 1 Nathan B. Fountain ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: The natural history of epilepsy, and particularly the rate of seizure freedom (SF), is generally unknown except in a few specific epilepsy syndromes. The rate of SF is generally regarded to be low if patients do not respond to the first two medications. However, our experience suggests that some patients with refractory epilepsy become SF. We hypothesized that the rate of SF is higher than expected and correlated with the seizure class and epilepsy syndrome. Methods: Standardized data were prospectively collected by epileptologists from established and new patients seen in the UVA Epilepsy Clinic from April 1998 to November 2004. Data were acquired directly from patients and medical records, refined and cleaned by standardized methods and updated at each clinic visit. Analysis was limited to patients with definite epilepsy > 5 years old. Frequency of each seizure (SZ) type was collected at each visit. Patients were categorized into 14 classes by the combination of SZ types they possessed and classified by ILAE syndromes. For each subject, monthly SZ frequency of each SZ type was plotted over time for the study duration. SF was defined as a total frequency of 0 for at least 6 mo. in patients who had at least 3 SZ frequency entries. Results: From 1638 subjects, 988 had 3 or more SZ frequency entries and were followed for a mean of 37 mo. SF developed in 25% (243), established SF was present throughout the time period in 23% (231), and 52% (514) continued to have seizures. Among those SF, mean duration of follow-up was 24.5 mo. and mean duration of SF was 20.9 mo. The majority (56%) of those SF had a moderately high baseline SZ frequency of 1?15/mo, while 21% had < 1/mo and 15% had a very high SZ frequency of >15/mo. Subjects with GTCs only were most likely to have a low SZ frequency (60%) and mixed types to have a very high frequency (67%). SF rate was highest for subjects with generalized SZs (113 of 355 subjects or 31%) and lowest for mixed SZs (6 of 28 subjects or 21%). SF rate was highest for idiopathic localization-related (53%) and idiopathic generalized (38%) and lowest for other generalized epilepsies (25%). Conclusions: An overall rate of seizure freedom of 48% with 25% becoming SF during the study period is higher than generally expected for established epilepsy. Patients with only generalized SZs, or idiopathic generalized and idiopathic localization-related epilepsies are more likely to become SF but some rate of SF develops in all SZ types and syndromes. It is likely that recall bias and other factors give clinicians the impression that only few patients with epilepsy are seizure free. This demonstrates that SF is a reasonable goal in the treatment of established epilepsy, depending on the SZ type and epilepsy syndrome. (Supported by University of Virginia.) 1 Susana E. Camposano, 1 David A. Lyczkowski, 1 Sonja K. Rakowski, and 1 Elizabeth A. Thiele ( 1 Herscot Center for TSC, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Epilepsy is the most common medical manifestation of TSC, with a high incidence of infantile spasms and partial epilepsy that often is refractory to medical treatment. We describe the incidence, prevalence, management, and control of seizures in a large population of patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex. Methods: We conducted a retrospective chart review of patients meeting clinical criteria for TSC who were seen through our TSC clinical program between January 1999 and November 2005. Results: 194 patients met criteria for TSC (mean age 16 years, range 7 months to 60 years), including 91 females. 172 (88.7%) had a history of seizures (mean age 14.8 years, SD 14.8). Twenty-two (11%) patients did not have a history of seizures (mean 24.1years, SD 13.7). The latter group was significantly older (Student's t test, p < 0.005). TSC diagnosis in patients with no seizure history diagnosis may be established later in life, and they might be underrepresented in our sample. Median age at seizure onset was 6 months (range, newborn to13 years average, mean 1.8 years). Sixty-nine patients (43% of those with seizures) had a history of infantile spasms. Of those who had DNA mutational analysis and seizures (n = 122), patients with IS had a higher proportion of TSC2 mutations compared to those without IS (41/56 with IS versus 28/66 without IS, ?2 p < 0.001) Seizure control Detailed information on 158 patients was available for seizure control analysis. At the time of the last visit, 55 (35%) had been seizure free for one year or longer. 33 (21%) of them, including 4 that underwent epilepsy surgery, were on medications, with an average of 3.28 (total, current and past, range 1to 11) antiepileptic drugs (AED). They had been seizure free for an average of 6.65 years, maximum 28 years. Twenty-three were on current mono-therapy. Twenty-two patients (14%), including 4 that had seizure surgery, were off medications and had been on an average number of 2.81 AEDs (range 1 to 6). Refractory epilepsy Seventy-three patients who had been treated with 3 or more treatments, including AEDs, vagal nerve stimulator (12), ketogenic diet (10), or low glycemic index treatment (2) without reaching seizure control for one year were classified as refractory. They did not differ in mutational frequencies from 26 non-refractory patients (?2= NS), who did achieve seizure control with one or two AEDs. Fifty-nine patients were excluded from this analysis, since they had not been treated with more than 2 AEDs or other treatments and had not achieved seizure control for one year. Epilepsy surgery was performed in 27 refractory patients; 10 of them eventually became seizure free. Nineteen refractory patients became seizure free after being treated with 3 or more AEDs. Conclusions: TSC comprises a wide epilepsy spectrum, with early onset of seizures, high IS incidence and high intractabilitity rates. Nonetheless 35% achieve complete seizure control. 1 Kimford J. Meador, 2 Nancy Browning, 3 Morris J. Cohen, 4 Laura Kalayjian, 5 Joyce Liporace, 6 Page B. Pennell, 7 Michael D. Privitera, 8 Andres Kanner, and 9 Debra T. Cantrell ( 1 Neurology, University of Florida, Gaineville, FL ; 2 EMMES Corporation, Rockville, MD ; 3 Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 4 Neurology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA ; 5 Neuroscience, Riddle Health Care, Media, PA ; 6 Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ; 7 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; 8 Neurology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL ; and 9 North Texas Epilepsy Center, Irving, TX ) Rationale: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can produce behavioral teratogenesis in animals at dosages less than required to produce anatomical teratogenesis. We sought to evaluate the cognitive effects of in utero AED exposure in humans in order to determine if differences exist across commonly prescribed AEDs. Methods: The NEAD Study is an ongoing prospective multicenter observational investigation, which enrolled pregnant women with epilepsy taking monotherapy carbamazepine (CBZ), lamotrigine(LTG), phenytoin (PHT), or valproate (VPA). The long-term goal of the study is to examine children from these pregnancies at 6 years old to determine if differential neuropsychological effects exist from in utero exposure across the four most commonly employed AEDs in pregnant women. This analysis is based on currently available results at 2 years old from the Mental Scale of the Bayley Scales of Infant Development for 166 children (CBZ = 43, LTG = 57, PHT = 38, VPA = 28). The childrens' Mental Developmental Index (MDI) scores were analyzed by Analysis of Covariance controlling for maternal IQs. Results: Children exposed in utero to valproate had lower MDI scores at 2 years of age compared to the other 3 AEDs (p = .028). Follow-up pairwise comparisons revealed a significant difference for VPA-LTG (p = .018) and a trend for VPA-CBZ (p = .056). Mean (SD) MDIs were: CBZ = 94 (15), LTG = 97 (17), PHT = 90 (19), VPA = 85 (19). The percentages of children with MDI < 70 for each AED were: CBZ = 12%, LTG = 11%, PHT = 13%, VPA = 25%. The adverse effect of VPA was related to anticonvulsant blood level (p = .0001). Conclusions: These findings in conjunction with prior studies imply that in utero valproate exposure is more likely than other commonly used AEDs to impair cognitive development. Thus, valproate poses a greater risk for the unborn child for behavioral as well as anatomical teratogenesis. Additional studies are needed to confirm the present findings and to delineate the risks for other AEDs. (Supported by NIH/NINDS #2RO1 NS38455.) 1 Wayne M. Alves, 1 Yuhua Li, 2 Virinder Nohria, on behalf of the 205 Study Investigators ( 1 Research  and 2 Clinical Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA ) Rationale: Retigabine is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) that enhances the potassium currents mediated by human KCNQ2/3 and KCNQ3/5 potassium channels and exhibits potent anticonvulsant activity in a broad spectrum of epilepsy animal models. The safety and efficacy of retigabine in refractory partial-onset seizures has been previously reported [1]. This report provides a descriptive analysis evaluating the efficacy of retigabine on complex partial seizures (CPS) in patients with refractory partial-onset epilepsy. Methods: 399 patients with partial-onset seizures (age range: 16?70 years, baseline seizure frequency: ≥4 seizures/month) participated in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial. Study design included an 8-week baseline phase and 16-week double-blind treatment period (8-week forced titration and 8-week maintenance). Patients received either placebo or retigabine 600, 900, or 1200 mg/day and up to 2 approved AEDs. The primary efficacy variable was percent change from baseline in monthly total partial-seizure frequency. The percent change in monthly seizure rate for seizure types was considered as a secondary endpoint. Of 396 patients included in the efficacy analysis, 344 (86.9%) had CPS. 103 (26%) patients had simple partial seizures without secondary generalization (SPS). Results: Retigabine produced a linear dose-dependent reduction in monthly total partial-seizure frequency of 23%, 29% (p = 0.043), and 35% (p 0.001) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 13% for placebo. Looking at the most common seizure subtype, monthly CPS frequency was also significantly reduced. Median monthly CPS rate was reduced by 29.8% (p = 0.062), 26.5% (p = 0.064), and 40.0% (p = 0.002) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 14.8% for placebo. Monthly median SPS rate was reduced by 23.2% (p = 0.66), 34% (p = 0.77), and 37.6% (p = 0.15) for retigabine 600, 900, and 1200 mg/day, respectively, versus 15.2% for placebo. Conclusions: While retigabine is effective in reducing monthly total partial-onset seizures at 900 and 1200 mg/day, it appears to be effective in reducing the rate of complex partial seizures in all doses tested. Similar numerical trends for SPS frequency were observed but sample sizes are too small to draw a conclusion. Retigabine is currently undergoing global phase 3 studies as adjunctive treatment for partial-onset seizures in adults with refractory epilepsy. Reference 1 Porter P, Alves W, Nohria V, et al. World Congress of Neurology, 2005 (Sydney, Australia). (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International.) 1 Peter Halasz, 2 Reeta Kalviainen, 3 Maria Mazurkiewicz-Beldzinska, 4 Felix Rosenow, 5 Pamela Doty, and 5 Timothy Sullivan ( 1 Neurology, National Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology, Budapest, Hungary ; 2 Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland ; 3 Neurology, Medical University of Gdansk, Gdansk, Poland ; 4 Neurology, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany ; and 5 Clinical Development, Schwarz Biosciences, Inc., Research Triangle Park, NC ) Rationale: Lacosamide (LCM, SPM 927; formerly harkoseride) is a new chemical entity being developed as an oral and intravenous formulation for the treatment of partial-onset epilepsy. In a completed randomized, controlled trial (SP667), lacosamide (400 and 600 mg/day) reduced seizure frequency in subjects with uncontrolled partial seizures. Lacosamide has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile with low potential for pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions. Methods: SP755 was an international, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that investigated the efficacy and safety of lacosamide in subjects with uncontrolled partial seizures taking 1 to 3 concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) with or without vagus nerve stimulation. Concomitant AEDs were held stable during an 8-week baseline. Subjects (n = 485) who reported at least 8 seizures with no more than a 21-day seizure-free period were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to placebo, lacosamide 200 or 400 mg/day (given bid), respectively. Subjects were titrated over 4 weeks to the randomized dose in 100 mg/week increments. Treatment was maintained for 12 weeks, followed by blinded transition to an open-label extension trial or discontinuation. Efficacy was evaluated with continuous and categorical intent-to-treat analyses of seizure frequency (maintenance vs baseline). Safety was evaluated with adverse event (AE), ECG, vital sign, and clinical laboratory data. Results: The median percent reduction in seizure frequency was 21%, 35%, and 36% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. The lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day treatment groups were statistically significant over placebo in reducing seizure frequency from Baseline to the Maintenance Phase (p = 0.0223 and 0.0325, respectively). The 50% responder rates were 26%, 35%, and 41% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. Statistical analysis for responder rate over placebo was significant for lacosamide 400 mg/day (p = 0.0063) and approached significance for the 200 mg/day group (p = 0.0735). Rates for patient discontinuations from the trial for AEs were 6%, 6%, and 16% for placebo, lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day, respectively. The most common (≥10% in any lacosamide group) AEs were dizziness, headache and diplopia. Conclusions: Data from this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial showed that adjunctive lacosamide (200 and 400 mg/day) produced a statistically significant reduction in partial seizures in patients with uncontrolled partial seizures and support further development of lacosamide as an antiepileptic drug. (Supported by Schwarz Biosciences, Inc.) 1 Luiz Eduardo Betting, 1 Susana Barreto Mory, 2 ?scia Lopes-Cendes, 1 Li M. Li, and 1 Fernando Cendes ( 1 Department of Neurology, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Department of Medical Genetics, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Idiopathic generalized epilepsies (IGE) are a group of epilepsies with generalized onset of the seizures. According to the main seizure type IGE are divided in subsyndromes. Routine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is normal. The EEG supports the diagnosis when it shows the typical generalized spike and wave (GSW) discharges with normal background. Despite of these features, sometimes focal epileptiform discharges may be registered in the EEG. Some authors believe that these focalities represent fragmented GSW discharges but the pathophysiology of the focalities is still under investigation. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) is a quantitative technique of MRI analysis that allows automatic comparison between images. This method also increases the sensibility to detect small areas of structural abnormalities. The objective of this study was to investigate the focalities present on the EEG records of patients with IGE using VBM. Methods: Patients were classified according to clinical and EEG features following previous recommendations. All patients had at least one EEG with typical GSW discharges and one with clear focal epileptiform discharges. All patients were submitted to MRI evaluation in a 2T MRI scanner (Elscint, Haifa, Israel). A 3D T1 gradient echo sequence with 1 mm isotropic voxels was used for VBM analysis. Images were previously processed using the software SPM2 (http://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk). All images were submitted to spatial normalization, automatic segmentation, modulation and smoothing. The images of each patient were individually compared with a group of 47 controls (23 women, mean age 32 ± 14, range 19?67). Statistical analysis was performed searching for areas of gray matter concentration (GMC) abnormalities. The statistical level selected was a corrected p < 0.05 (false discovery rate). The localization of the focal discharges on the EEG was compared to the VBM results. Results: Twenty-two patients with IGE diagnosis were evaluated. Nine had juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), 6 patients had absence epilepsy (AE) and 7 had generalized tonic-clonic seizures on awakening (GTCS). Eight of the 9 (89%) patients with JME presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 6 of 8 patients (75%). Five of 6 (83%) patients with AE presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 3 of 5 patients (60%). Five of 7 (71%) patients with GTCS presented areas of GMC abnormalities. EEG analysis showed correspondence in 2 of 5 patients (40%). Conclusions: This study supports that subtle structural abnormalities characterized mainly by increased GMC may be responsible for the focal epileptiform discharges observed in the EEG of IGE. These focalities are also probably involved in the pathophysiology of the IGE. (Supported by Fundaç?o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de S?o Paulo (FAPESP) and Coordenaç?o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES).) 1 Greg A. Worrell, 1 Matt Stead, 2 Rick Marsh, 2 Fred Meyer, 1 Greg Cascino, 1 Elson So, and 3 Brian Litt ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; 2 Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 3 Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: The range of physiologic and pathologic oscillations recorded from human brain extend well beyond what is commonly recorded with clinical acquisition systems. The range of local field activity in human epileptogenic brain extends from DC to ?700 Hz. The clinical relevance of DC fluctuations, infraslow oscillations (0.01?0.1 Hz) and ultrafast oscillations (100?700 Hz) is unclear, but recent research supports the possible role of pathological high-frequency oscillations in the genesis of focal onset seizures. Methods: We studied 10 consecutive patients undergoing presurgical evaluation with hybrid subdural and depth electrodes. The custom hybrid depth and subdural electrodes (Adtech) used for intracranial EEG recordings contain an array of microwire electrodes (40 um?60 um) and clinical macroelectrodes (1?4 mm). The EEG was acquired using a DC coupled broadband amplifier operating in parallel with the clinical EEG acquisition system. Results: The broadband recordings from all 10 patients (5 neocortical grids and 5 temporal depth electrodes) showed oscillations extending from DC to ?700Hz. Infraslow oscillations and DC fluctuations tended to be more spatially distributed, but were most prominent in the region of seizure onset. Ultrafast oscillations (>100 Hz) were most often localized, and were most prominent within the seizure onset zone. The ultrafast oscillations were most evident on the microwire electrodes, and were modulated by slow frequency oscillations. Conclusions: Human epileptogenic brain generates local field oscillations that extend over a wide dynamic range (DC-700 Hz). In addition to activity in the usual clinical bands (?0.5?100 Hz) there are DC fluctuations and shifts, infraslow frequency oscillations (?0.01?0.1 Hz), and ultrafast oscillations (>100?700 Hz) present. The presence of ultrafast oscillations are often highly localized and most evident on microwire recordings, but can be absent from large clinical macroelectrodes. This suggests that clinical macroelectrodes (2 mm) may partially average out ultrafast local field potentials. (Supported by NIH/NINDS K23NS47495?03.) 1 Wenbo Zhang, 2,5 Deanna L. Dickens, 2 Gail Risse, 1 Joel Landsteiner, 3 Mary Beth Dunn, 4 Mark V. Larkins, 3 Richard Gregory, 3 Keith Davies, 2,5 Michael D. Frost, 2,5 Patricia E. Penovich, 2 Robb Doss, 2 El-Hadi Mouderres, and 2,5 Frank J. Ritter ( 1 Magnetic Source Imaging, John Nasseff Neuroscience Institute, Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA and United Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; 2 Minnesota Epilepsy Group PA, St. Paul, MN ; 3 United Neurosurgery Associates, St. Paul, MN ; 4 Department of Neurosurgery, Regions Hospital, St. Paul, MN ; and 5 Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN ) Rationale: Magnetoencephalography (MEG)/magnetic source imaging (MSI) is the only neuroimaging method to real-time measure neuronal activity non-invasively. MSI clinical application is receiving more attention. Presurgical functional brain mapping with MSI allows guidance during surgical decision-making and decreases the invasiveness of presurgical evaluation in epilepsy, brain tumor or cerebral vascular diseases. This report describes the patients tested and confirmed by invasive brain monitoring intraoperatively or with subdural grid placement, in the MSI Lab of Minnesota Epilepsy Group, PA and United Hospital at Saint Paul, Minnesota. Methods: Twenty-nine patients experienced both functional brain mapping with MSI (148-channel Magnes 2500 WH System, 4-D Neuroimaging, San Diego, CA) and invasive brain mapping (11 patients with intra-operative mapping, 18 with subdural electrode placement) in Minnesota Epilepsy Group between Dec 2004 and June 2006. Standard MSI protocols were applied for localization of language (word recognition task for receptive language mapping), somatosensory (pneumatic piston as stimuli), and primary motor cortex (voluntary finger tapping). The magnetic sources are modeled as a single equivalent dipole. The dipoles were superimposed onto the 3-dimensional SPGR MR images (1.4 mm slice thickness, no gap). Results: In the 29 patients, there were 8 patients with language mapping, 26 with motor mapping and 16 with somatosensory mapping. In the 51 brain function components, somtosensory and motor MSI dipoles were overlapped with the locations of invasive cortical mapping or located within 1 cm range from the sites of invasive cortical mapping; language MSI dipoles were located in the sulcus overlapped by cortical mapping on surface. There were no non-predicted neurological deficits after resective surgery in 28 patients. One patient did not experience resection due to the overlapping of motor cortex and epileptogenic focus. Conclusions: Functional brain mapping with MSI is an accurate tool to localize brain function for surgical planning. Using MSI information properly may reduce the number of invasive brain mapping procedures. 1 Chad Carlson, 3 Catherine Schevon, 4 Jeff Stout, 1 Siddhartha Nadkarni, 2 Werner Doyle, 2 Howard Weiner, 1 Steven Pacia, 1,2 Orrin Devinsky, and 1 Ruben Kuzniecky ( 1 Neurology, New York University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurosurgery, New York University, New York, NY ; 3 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 4 New York MEG, New York, NY ) Rationale: The lateralization and localization of partial seizures, particularly in extratemporal epilepsy syndromes, remains difficult despite improved diagnostic imaging and electroencephalographic techniques. Magnetic source imaging (MSI) is increasingly employed in the presurgical evaluation. This study retrospectively examines the positive predictive value (PPV) of MSI for lateralizing the epileptogenic zone. Methods: All epilepsy surgical cases performed after the availability of MSI (4-D Neuroimaging, equivalent current source dipole localization) at our center were identified. 163 surgeries in 152 patients were performed. 73 patients had a diagnostic pre-operative MSI. Results were available to the epilepsy team prior to surgery; however the MSI results did not directly affect the resection. We compared MSI lateralization to the ICEEG lateralization and resection. These results were reviewed in the context of the surgical outcome for patients with more than six months of post-surgical follow-up. Results: 12 of the 73 patients did not have resections due to non-lateralizable or non-localizable seizures or because their implants were diagnostic bilateral strip surveys. 30 patients had resections limited to the temporal lobe (4 with focal tumors). 3 patients had frontal tumors. 10 patients had multi-focal lesions secondary to tuberous sclerosis complex. The MSI was normal in 9 patients. Of those with an abnormal MSI, 39 had unilateral abnormalities ipsilateral to the resection and 6 had abnormalities limited to the contralateral hemisphere. 19 patients had bilateral findings, with 10 demonstrating a clear predominance ipsilateral to the resection. 40/61 patients undergoing resections had six or more months of follow-up. The PPV for MSI lateralization is shown in the table below. Positive Predictive Value of MSI for Lateralization of Epileptic Foci Number of Patients PPV PPV + Bilateral All Patients 73 61% ?77% Engel I Outcome 25/40 77% ?91% Engel II Outcome ?5/40 75% 100% Engel III Outcome ?6/40 67% ?67% Engel IV Outcome ?4/40 75% ?75% Engel II-I VOutcomes 15/40 71% ?78% PPV = Positive Predictive Value. PPV + Bilateral = Positive Predictive Value including patients with bilateral localizations with a predominance to the side of resection. Conclusions: This retrospective analysis demonstrates both the validity of MSI for lateralizing the epileptogenic zone as well as the method's limitations; the specificity of the MSI technique for predicting the epileptogenic zone cannot exceed its ability to lateralize correctly. Thus, clinicians should interpret the MSI in the context of other presurgical studies, rather than rely on it as an independent predictor of the epileptogenic zone. (Supported by FACES.) 1 Gregory L. Barkley, 1 Brien Smith, 2 Gregory Bergey, 3 Gregory Worrell, 4 David Chabolla, 5 Joeseph Drazkowski, 6 Douglas Labar, 7 Robert Duckrow, 8 Anthony Murro, 9 Michael Smith, 10 Ryder Gwinn, 11 Bruce Fisch, 12 Lawrence Hirsch, and 13 Martha Morrell ( 1 Department of Neurology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI ; 2 Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD ; 3 Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; 4 Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL ; 5 Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, AZ ; 6 Weill Medical College of Cornell University, NYC, NY ; 7 Yale University, New Haven, CT ; 8 Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA ; 9 Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL ; 10 Swedish Neuroscience Inst., Seattle, WA ; 11 Lousiana State University, New Orleans, LA ; 12 Columbia University, NYC, NY ; and 13 NeuroPace, Inc., Mountain View, CA ,) Rationale: A multi-center feasibility investigation assessed safety and possible efficacy of the cranially based implantable, programmable Responsive Neurostimulator (RNS?) system. Methods: Subjects were 18?65 years with intractable partial-onset seizures and localized epileptogenic onset region(s). Subjects with ≥12 simple partial (SP) sensory or motor seizures, complex partial seizures (CPS) or generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures over an 84-day baseline period qualified for implant. The RNS was connected to up to 2 leads (subdural and/or depth), which were targeted to the seizure focus. Adverse events (AEs) were monitored throughout the trial. Efficacy was assessed during two time periods, the 84-day period beginning 28 days post-implant (primary) and the most recent 84 days for which a subject could have received therapy (secondary). Results: During the primary evaluation period, the responder rate (≥50% reduction in seizures) in 50 subjects (excluding 1 subject with no disabling seizures at baseline and 14 subjects blinded off) was 32% for CPS (n = 44), 63% for GTC (n = 16), and 26% (n = 50) for total disabling seizures (TDS) (SP motor, CPS and GTC). The median percentage reduction in seizure frequency was: CPS 27%, GTC 59% and TDS 29%; seizure reduction was significant for CPS (p < 0.05) and TDS (p < 0.001) (Wilcoxon signed-rank test). For the secondary evaluation period, as of 4/28/06, the responder rate for 62 subjects (excluding 1 subject with no disabling seizures at baseline and 2 subjects previously blinded off with fewer than 84-days of therapy on) was 40% for CPS (n = 52), 55% for GTC (n = 22), and 41% for TDS (n = 61). The median percentage reduction was: CPS 34%, GTC 66% and TDS 35%, and seizure reduction was significant for CPS (p < 0.05), GTC (p < 0.005), and TDS (p < 0.001). In 65 implanted subjects (including 17 device replacements) representing 65 patient years, there were no serious unanticipated device-related AEs, and responsive neurostimulation was well tolerated. Conclusions: An investigation of the RNS? system demonstrated safety and a sustained reduction in CPS, GTC and TDS events. Preliminary results indicated that the RNS? system may provide a safe and effective treatment for adults with intractable partial-onset epilepsy. (Supported by NeuroPace, Inc.) 1 Angela Y. Rackley, 1 Jerzy P. Szaflarski, 1 Daniel Woo, 1 Rosie Miller, 1 Jane Khoury, 1 Dawn O. Kleindorfer, 1 Joseph P. Broderick, 2 William Cahill, and 1 Brett M. Kissela ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Department of Veteran's Affairs, Fresno, CA ) Rationale: Stroke-related seizures are frequently defined as early (within 2 weeks after stroke) and late. The incidence of early and late seizures is relatively well established. The incidence of acute seizures (≤24 hours after stroke) is unknown. In this population-based study, we aimed to establish the incidence of acute post-stroke seizures in a biracial cohort. We also sought to determine if there were any differences between race, stroke subtype, and stroke localization. Methods: All stroke cases between 7/93?6/94 within the population of the Greater Cincinnati metropolitan region were identified by review of all primary and secondary stroke diagnoses (ICD-9 codes 430?436) from 19 local acute-care hospitals, outpatient clinics, autopsy cases, and death certificates. Clinical and demographic data was collected by study nurses and subsequently reviewed by study physicians. The presence of seizures in the 24 hours after stroke symptom onset was obtained through additional record review; patients with a prior history of seizure were excluded. All available neuroimaging performed at the time of stroke was reviewed by study physicians. Variable Seizure No Seizure p-value Age (years) 67.0 ± 20.3 71.6 ± 13.0 0.01? Gender (male) 53 (43.4%) 1241 (44.2%) 0.88? Race (black) 18 (14.8%) ?473 (16.8%) 0.55? Hypertension 70 (57.4%) 1744 (62.1%) 0.30? Heart Disease 48 (39.3%) 1149 (40.9%) 0.73? Prior Stroke 31 (25.4%) ?652 (23.2%) 0.57? LVH on admission EKG 16 (13.1%) ?349 (12.4%) 0.82? Initial GCS 12 (3, 14) ??15 (14, 15) <0.0001 Initial Rankin ?0 (0, 3) ???0 (0, 3) 0.54? 30-day Mortality 35 (28.7%) ?361 (12.8%) <0.0001 Hemorrhagic Stroke 39 (32.0%) ?295 (10.5%) <0.0001 Data analyzed using logistic regression model Results: We identified 2932 strokes who had no prior history of seizures, of which 122 (4.2%) had seizures within the first 24 hours of stroke onset. Of ICH/SAH patients, 11.4% had a seizure within the first 24 hours of stroke onset (p ≤ 0.0001 vs. all stroke). In ischemic stroke, we observed a trend towards seizures being more common with cardioembolic stroke vs. all other ischemic stroke subtypes (4.5% vs. 2.9%, p = 0.07). There was a higher mortality rate in patients who developed stroke-related acute seizures. See table for additional detail. Conclusions: The overall rate of epileptic seizures within the first 24 hours of stroke onset is 4.2%. Risk factors for developing seizure activity include younger age, lower initial GCS score, and hemorrhagic stroke (ICH/SAH). Patients with stroke-related acute seizures have a higher 30-day mortality than patients without seizures. This may be related to a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke in this group. 1,2,3 N. Elshorst, 2 F.G. Woermann, 2 T. May, 2 H. Freitag, 2 S. Horstmann, 2 R. Schulz, 3 M.P. McAndrews, and 2,3 B. Pohlmann-Eden ( 1 Universitaetsklinikum Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany ; 2 Mara Hospital, Bethel Epilepsy Centre Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 3 Krembil Neuroscience Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada ) Rationale: To identify the best predictors of postoperative verbal memory decline in patients undergoing left temporal lobe excisions for epilepsy. Methods: A retrospective analysis was carried out using data from 59 patients with left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) who underwent en-bloc resection. Memory was measured by a standard word list-learning task (z-score for total number of words over 5 trials) administered before and after surgery. A new rating was devised for the MR images, to characterize the extent of hippocampal damage. Atrophy and signal change of the hippocampus were examined separately. Both changes were assessed on a scale: 0 = no change 1 = moderate atrophy/signal change, 2 = severe atrophy/signal change. The average of these two factors was calculated to classify the degree (range 0 to 2) of mesiotemporal sclerosis (MTS). The Wada results included number of correctly identified items after ipsilateral injection and contralateral injection (pass/fail boundary: 67%), as well as an asymmetry score. In various multiple regression analyses, Wada test scores (injection ipsilateral, injection contralateral, asymmetry score), neuropsychological test scores before surgery, MRI scores (atrophy, increased signal change, MTS) and further risk factors such as age of onset were entered as the independent variables. The difference in the verbal memory test was the dependent variable. Results: After surgery, 35% of the patients showed a memory decline indicated by a z-score loss of more than one point. The regression analyses revealed that the pre-operative memory test score was the strongest predictor of memory change (p < 0.05, adjusted R Square = 0.341). Higher preoperative performance in the verbal memory task was associated with a greater risk of verbal memory decline after surgery. The second significant predictor was the MTS classification (p < 0.05, adjusted R Square = 0.428). Greater damage to the hippocampus was associated with less decline following surgery. None of the other variables, including the Wada results and other risk factors, were significant predictors of memory outcome. Conclusions: The Wada test results did add to the prediction of verbal memory decline in this sample of patients in whom temporal lobe resection was considered safe with regard to the risk of amnesia (i.e., adequate memory functioning following ipsilesional injection compared to contralesional injection). Thus, the clinical data obtained routinely before surgery seems to be sufficient to predict risk of memory decline in the majority of TLE patients. However, our findings do not refute the usefulness of the Wada test for excluding from surgery those patients who are at risk for amnesia after temporal lobe resection. 1 Cigdem I. Akman, 1 Aviva Olgavsky, 1 Marla Hamberger, 1 Ronald Tikofsky, and 1 Frank Gilliam ( 1 Department of Neurology, Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University, College of Physicians  2 Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea ; and 3 Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul, Republic of Korea ) Rationale: We investigated longitudinal changes in the volumes and shapes of the hippocampi of non-surgical and post-surgical patients with unilateral mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: Sixteen non-surgical patients had a repeat brain MRI with a mean interval of 3.7 years and 16 post-surgical patients had two postoperative MRI scans with a mean interval of 4.8 years. We measured ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal volumes (IHV and CHV) in the non-surgical group and CHV in the postsurgical group. Hippocampal shape deformity analysis (HSDA) was also performed in each group. Results: In non-surgical patients, both IHV and CHV decreased significantly between the two scans (7.3 ± 5.7%, p < 0.001 and 2.5 ± 2.6%, p = 0.002). Moreover, IHV percent decreases were significantly correlated with the number of total seizures between the two scans (r = 0.57, p = 0.02). HSDA also showed inward deformities in both ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi in non-surgical patients (uncorrected p < 0.05). In post-surgical patients, mean CHV (2481.1 ± 364.9 mm3) for first postsurgical scans was not significantly different from mean CHV (2480.4 ± 316.1 mm3) for second scans. Total seizure numbers during the year before surgery were negatively correlated with CHV losses between the two postsurgical scans (r =?0.72, p = 0.002). HSDA of contralateral hippocampi between the two postsurgical scans mainly showed outward deformities in head, body and tail but small inward deformities in tail. Conclusions: These results suggest that recurrent seizures induce progressive atrophy in both ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi, but that a seizure-free state after the resection of an epileptic focus prevents longitudinal volume loss of the contralateral hippocampus and may facilitate a partial volume increase.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yeh, Ting-Chi
AU  - Liang, Der-Cherng
AU  - Hou, Jen-Yin
AU  - Jaing, Tang-Her
AU  - Lin, Dong-Tsamn
AU  - Yang, Chao-Ping
AU  - Peng, Ching-Tien
AU  - Hung, Iou-Jih
AU  - Lin, Kai-Hsin
AU  - Hsiao, Chih-Cheng
AU  - Jou, Shiann-Tarng
AU  - Chiou, Shyh-Shin
AU  - Chen, Jiann-Shiuh
AU  - Wang, Shih-Chung
AU  - Chang, Te-Kau
AU  - Wu, Kang-Hsi
AU  - Sheen, Jiunn-Ming
AU  - Yen, Hsiu-Ju
AU  - Chen, Shih-Hsiang
AU  - Lu, Meng-Yao
AU  - Li, Meng-Ju
AU  - Chang, Tai-Tsung
AU  - Huang, Ting-Huan
AU  - Chang, Yu-Hsiang
AU  - Chen, Shu-Huey
AU  - Yang, Yung-Li
AU  - Chang, Hsiu-Hao
AU  - Chen, Bow-Wen
AU  - Lin, Pei-Chin
AU  - Cheng, Chao-Neng
AU  - Chao, Yu-Hua
AU  - Yang, Shang-Hsien
AU  - Chao, Yu-Mei Y.
AU  - Liu, Hsi-Che
TI  - Treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with delayed first intrathecal therapy and omission of prophylactic cranial irradiation: Results of the TPOG-ALL-2002 study
JO  - Cancer
JA  - Cancer
VL  - 124
IS  - 23
SN  - 0008-543X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cncr.31758
DO  - doi:10.1002/cncr.31758
SP  - 4538
EP  - 4547
KW  - acute lymphoblastic leukemia
KW  - central nervous system
KW  - children
KW  - cranial irradiation
KW  - intrathecal chemotherapy
PY  - 2018
AB  - Background To eliminate cranial irradiation (CrRT)?related sequelae and to minimize the adverse impact of traumatic lumbar puncture (TLP) with blasts, the Taiwan Pediatric Oncology Group (TPOG) introduced a modified central nervous system (CNS)?directed regimen characterized by delayed triple intrathecal therapy (TIT) and the omission of CrRT for all children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Methods This study compared the treatment outcomes of patients overall and patients with a non?CNS-1 status (CNS-2, CNS-3, or TLP with blasts) in 2 treatment eras, one before and another after the revision of the TPOG-ALL-2002 protocol by the introduction of the modification (era 1 [2002-2008] with CrRT and era 2 [2009-2012] with delayed first TIT and no CrRT). Results There were no statistically significant differences in major outcomes between the 903 patients treated in era 1 and the 444 patients treated in era 2: the 5-year event-free survival (EFS) rates were 75.7% ± 1.4% and 72.1% ± 2.4%, respectively (P = .260), and the cumulative risks of isolated CNS relapse were 4.0% ± 0.7% and 4.1% ± 1.0%, respectively (P = .960). There were also no differences between non?CNS-1 patients treated in era 1 (n = 76) and era 2 (n =28): the 5-year EFS rates were 52.3% ± 5.8% and 62.9% ± 9.4%, respectively (P = .199), and the cumulative risks of isolated CNS relapse were 6.3% ± 3.1% and 3.6% ± 3.5%, respectively (P = .639). Notably, TLP with blasts was completely eliminated after the first TIT was delayed in era 2. Conclusions The delay of the first TIT until the clearance of circulating blasts and the total omission of CrRT did not compromise survival or CNS control in patients with childhood ALL, including those with a non?CNS-1 status.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chopra, V.
AU  - Kaatz, S.
AU  - Conlon, A.
AU  - Paje, D.
AU  - Grant, P. J.
AU  - Rogers, M. A. M.
AU  - Bernstein, S. J.
AU  - Saint, S.
AU  - Flanders, S. A.
TI  - The Michigan Risk Score to predict peripherally inserted central catheter-associated thrombosis
JO  - Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - J Thromb Haemost
VL  - 15
IS  - 10
SN  - 1538-7933
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jth.13794
DO  - doi:10.1111/jth.13794
SP  - 1951
EP  - 1962
KW  - deep vein thrombosis
KW  - peripherally inserted central catheter
KW  - thrombosis
KW  - upper extremity
KW  - venous thromboembolism
PY  - 2017
AB  - Essentials How best to quantify thrombosis risk with peripherally inserted central catheters (PICC) is unknown. Data from a registry were used to develop the Michigan Risk Score (MRS) for PICC thrombosis. Five risk factors were associated with PICC thrombosis and used to develop a risk score. MRS was predictive of the risk of PICC thrombosis and can be useful in clinical practice. Summary Background Peripherally inserted central catheters (PICCs) are associated with upper extremity deep vein thrombosis (DVT). We developed a score to predict risk of PICC-related thrombosis. Methods Using data from the Michigan Hospital Medicine Safety Consortium, image-confirmed upper-extremity DVT cases were identified. A logistic, mixed-effects model with hospital-specific random intercepts was used to identify factors associated with PICC-DVT. Points were assigned to each predictor, stratifying patients into four classes of risk. Internal validation was performed by bootstrapping with assessment of calibration and discrimination of the model. Results Of 23 010 patients who received PICCs, 475 (2.1%) developed symptomatic PICC-DVT. Risk factors associated with PICC-DVT included: history of DVT; multi-lumen PICC; active cancer; presence of another CVC when the PICC was placed; and white blood cell count greater than 12 000. Four risk classes were created based on thrombosis risk. Thrombosis rates were 0.9% for class I, 1.6% for class II, 2.7% for class III and 4.7% for class IV, with marginal predicted probabilities of 0.9% (0.7, 1.2), 1.5% (1.2, 1.9), 2.6% (2.2, 3.0) and 4.5% (3.7, 5.4) for classes I, II, III, and IV, respectively. The risk classification rule was strongly associated with PICC-DVT, with odds ratios of 1.68 (95% CI, 1.19, 2.37), 2.90 (95% CI, 2.09, 4.01) and 5.20 (95% CI, 3.65, 7.42) for risk classes II, III and IV vs. risk class I, respectively. Conclusion The Michigan PICC-DVT Risk Score offers a novel way to estimate risk of DVT associated with PICCs and can help inform appropriateness of PICC insertion.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - WERNERS, A. H.
AU  - BULL, S.
AU  - FINK-GREMMELS, J.
TI  - Endotoxaemia: a review with implications for the horse
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 37
IS  - 4
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/0425164054529418
DO  - doi:10.2746/0425164054529418
SP  - 371
EP  - 383
KW  - horse
KW  - inflammation
KW  - LPS
KW  - macrophage
KW  - signal transduction
PY  - 2005
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stevens, R. B.
AU  - Skorupa, J. Y.
AU  - Rigley, T. H.
AU  - Yannam, G. R.
AU  - Nielsen, K. J.
AU  - Schriner, M. E.
AU  - Skorupa, A. J.
AU  - Murante, A.
AU  - Holdaway, E.
AU  - Wrenshall, L. E.
TI  - Increased Primary Non-Function in Transplanted Deceased-Donor Kidneys Flushed with Histidine-Tryptophan-Ketoglutarate Solution
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 9
IS  - 5
SN  - 1600-6135
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02624.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02624.x
SP  - 1055
EP  - 1062
KW  - delayed graft function (DGF)
KW  - HTK solution
KW  - kidney transplantation
KW  - organ preservation
KW  - primary nonfunction
PY  - 2009
AB  - Histidine-Tryptophan-Ketoglutarate (HTK) solution is increasingly used to flush and preserve organ donor kidneys, with efficacy claimed equivalent to University of Wisconsin (UW) solution. We observed and reported increased graft pancreatitis in pancreata flushed with HTK solution, which prompted this review of transplanting HTK-flushed kidneys. We analyzed outcomes of deceased-donor kidneys flushed with HTK and UW solutions with a minimum of 12 months follow-up, excluding pediatric and multi-organ recipients. We evaluated patient and graft survival and rejection rates, variables that might constitute hazards to graft survival and renal function. Two-year patient survival, rejection, renal function and graft survival were not different, but early graft loss (<6 months) was worse in HTK-flushed kidneys (p < 0.03). A Cox analysis of donor grade, cold ischemic time, panel reactive antibodies (PRA), donor race, first vs. repeat transplant, rejection and flush solution showed that only HTK use predicted early graft loss (p < 0.04; relative risk = 3.24), almost exclusively attributable to primary non-function (HTK, n = 5 (6.30%); UW, n = 1 (0.65%); p = 0.02). Delayed graft function and early graft loss with HTK occurred only in lesser grade kidneys, suggesting it should be used with caution in marginal donors.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stjernswärd, J.
TI  - Adjuvant radiotherapy trials in breast cancer
JO  - Cancer
JA  - Cancer
VL  - 39
IS  - 6
SN  - 0008-543X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/1097-0142(197706)39:6<2846::AID-CNCR2820390673>3.0.CO;2-D
DO  - doi:10.1002/1097-0142(197706)39:6<2846::AID-CNCR2820390673>3.0.CO;2-D
SP  - 2846
EP  - 2867
PY  - 1977
AB  - Abstract Adjuvant radiotherapy in breast cancer according to stage of disease, present diagnostic and therapeutic advances, and the biology of the tumor is summarized: Stage I: The increasing number of small localized tumors occuring with earlier diagnosis motivates controlled clinical studies of irradiation of the breast with surgical axillary node status for exact biological classification. Encouraging results with local breast irradiation need confirmation in controlled studies. Improved survival by local interventions will most probably be due to selection of cases with earlier diagnosis rather than to variations in local therapies. Curative therapy saving the breast may be envisaged. Stage II: Systemic therapies with effect also on local-regional soft tissue disease necessitate rethinking on the role of radiotherapy in Stage II Disease. Preoperative irradiation trials are biologically not logical in patients who are strictly operable and with a high risk of occult dissemination at time of irradiation. Adjuvant half body or total body irradiation to very high risk Stage II patients may now be logical to explore in a controlled study. Identification of the very limited subgroup(s) of patients who will benefit from radiotherapy in Stage II is open for trials. The routine use of postoperative irradiation in strictly operable patients is highly questionable. In spite of a demonstrated decrease of local and regional recurrence and the psychological trauma of discovering a local growth, the following four facts weigh heavily against the routine use of post-operative radiotherapy: 1) Overtreatment: (a) less than 10% have local-regional recurrence without distant metastases. (b) in the approximately 25% who get local recurrences, a watch policy with later radiotherapy gives complete local control in 70%. 2) Increased morbidity: besides a local-regional morbidity an increased mortality (+ 1 to 10%) can be correlated with the use of radiotherapy in 8/10 randomized trials (p > 0.04). 3) Systemic therapies: the logical way to improve survival. Multiple drug chemotherapy has been shown to be most effective against soft tissue metastases. It can not be excluded that radiotherapy diminishes the effect of systemic therapies (chemo-hormone or immunotherapy). 4) Social-economic aspects: The patient's time and money, doctor's time and society's resources may be better used. Priorities are necessary even in oncology. The interaction of radiotherpy with systemic therapies needs clarification. Stage III: Radiotherapy has a clear therapeutic role in inoperable tumors limited to the breast. Its exact role in synergism with systemic therapies in a multiple modality approach still must be defined in controlled studies. An improved local therapeutic ratio ought to result from exploring advancements in radiotherapy using radiosensitizers, high energy particle radiation, interaction with chemotherapy, and hyperthermia. With increasingly efficient systemic therapies, local tumor control in Stage III may translate into increased survival. Stage IV: A palliative effect is well established. Controlled studies are lacking analyzing whether there is a cost-benefit-ratio that is advantageous when compared to other forms of therapy. The indicated positive effect of half body/total body irradiation is open for a controlled trial.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jansen, Christian
AU  - Chatterjee, Devnandan Amor
AU  - Thomsen, Karen Louise
AU  - Al-Kassou, Baravan
AU  - Sawhney, Rohit
AU  - Jones, Helen
AU  - Gallego-Leon, Angela
AU  - Lehmann, Jennifer
AU  - Pohlmann, Alessandra
AU  - Nickenig, Georg
AU  - Strassburg, Christian P.
AU  - Andrié, René
AU  - Jalan, Rajiv
AU  - Linhart, Markus
AU  - Trebicka, Jonel
AU  - Mookerjee, Rajeshwar P.
TI  - Significant reduction in heart rate variability is a feature of acute decompensation of cirrhosis and predicts 90-day mortality
JO  - Alimentary Pharmacology & Therapeutics
JA  - Aliment Pharmacol Ther
VL  - 50
IS  - 5
SN  - 0269-2813
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/apt.15365
DO  - doi:10.1111/apt.15365
SP  - 568
EP  - 579
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary Background Heart rate variability (HRV) is reduced in cirrhosis and in conditions of systemic inflammation. Whether HRV is associated with cirrhosis decompensation and development of acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) is unknown. Aims To (a) validate wireless remote HRV monitoring in cirrhosis decompensation; (b) determine if severely reduced HRV is a surrogate for inflammation and progression of cirrhosis decompensation; (c) assess if measuring HRV determines prognosis in cirrhosis decompensation. Methods One hundred and eleven patients at risk of cirrhosis decompensation at two clinical sites were monitored for HRV. Standard deviation of all normal beat-beat intervals (SDNN) reflecting HRV was assessed using remote monitoring (Isansys Lifetouch) and/or Holter ECG recording. Clinical outcomes and major prognostic scores were recorded during 90-day follow-up. Results Reduced HRV denoted by lower baseline SDNN, correlated with severity of decompensation (median 14 (IQR 11-23) vs 33 (25-42); P < 0.001, decompensated patients vs stable outpatient cirrhosis). Furthermore, SDNN was significantly lower in patients developing ACLF compared to those with only decompensation (median 10 (IQR9-12) vs 16 (11-24); P = 0.02), and correlated inversely with MELD and Child-Pugh scores, and C-reactive protein (all P < 0.0001) and white cell count (P < 0.001). SDNN predicted disease progression on repeat measures and appeared an independent predictor of 90-day mortality (12 patients). An SDNN cut-off of 13.25 ms had a 98% negative predictive value. Conclusions This study demonstrates that remote wireless HRV monitoring identifies cirrhosis patients at high risk of developing ACLF and death, and suggests such monitoring might guide the need for early intervention in such patients. Clinical Trial number: NIHR clinical research network CPMS ID 4949.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - EL-ATTAR, May
AU  - SAID, Mohamed
AU  - EL-ASSAL, Gehan
AU  - SABRY, Nirmeen A.
AU  - OMAR, Emad
AU  - ASHOUR, Laila
TI  - Serum trace element levels in COPD patient: The relation between trace element supplementation and period of mechanical ventilation in a randomized controlled trial
JO  - Respirology
VL  - 14
IS  - 8
SN  - 1323-7799
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-1843.2009.01622.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1440-1843.2009.01622.x
SP  - 1180
EP  - 1187
KW  - COPD
KW  - manganese
KW  - mechanical ventilation
KW  - selenium
KW  - trace elements
KW  - zinc
PY  - 2009
AB  - ABSTRACT Background and objective:? Many trace elements play important roles in activating or inhibiting enzymatic reactions, by competing with other elements and metalloproteins for binding sites, by affecting the permeability of cell membranes and by other mechanisms. They play important roles in the oxidant/antioxidant balance. As such, trace elements are thought to be involved directly or indirectly in the pathogenesis of several diseases. The aim of the present study is to investigate the effect trace elements (Se, Mn and Zn) intravenously administered on the period the COPD patients spend on mechanical ventilation. Methods:? In a randomized double-blinded controlled trial a set of 120 subjects (40 normal volunteers and 80 COPD) were recruited. Serum concentration levels of Se, Mn and Zn were determined for all enrolled subjects with Inductively Coupled Plasma spectroscopy. COPD patients received intravenous supplementation of the above trace elements and the period the patients spent on mechanical ventilation was determined. Results:? There was a significant reduction (P?=?0.013) in the period the patients with COPD spent on the mechanical ventilation when received intravenous supplementation (9.4?±?7.3?days) compared with the COPD patients who received placebo (17.8?±?7.6?days). Conclusions:? Trace element (Se, Mn and Zn) status is altered in critically ill patients with COPD. The supplementation achieved a reduction in the period those patients spent on the mechanical ventilation. A larger multi-centre trial is required to confirm this preventive effect and to explore its applicability to other critical care conditions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Special Issue Abstracts From the American Society for Apheresis 39th Annual Meeting April 25–28, 2018, Chicago, Illinois
JO  - Journal of Clinical Apheresis
JA  - J Clin Apher
VL  - 33
IS  - 2
SN  - 0733-2459
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jca.21628
DO  - doi:10.1002/jca.21628
SP  - 133
EP  - 206
PY  - 2018
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Naeser, J
AU  - Lichtenberger, M
AU  - Mariani, C
AU  - Thamm, DHM
AU  - Kirby, R
TI  - CLINICAL COMPARISON OF LORAZEPAM VS. DIAZEPAM IN THE CONTROL OF CANINE SEIZURES
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 14
IS  - S1
SN  - 1479-3261
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-30-04035.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1476-4431.2004.t01-30-04035.x
SP  - S1
EP  - S17
PY  - 2004
AB  - Lorazepam is a long-acting benzodiazepine that interacts with a high degree of affinity for the GABA receptor complex. This high affinity binding in turn leads to a prolonged duration of action. There are no published clinical studies documenting its duration of action in dogs or its ability to control seizures. The purpose of this study was to compare the duration of seizure control of lorazepam with diazepam in 16 dogs presenting in status epilepticus or with active cluster seizures. Previous seizure history and anticonvulsant therapy was not a consideration for inclusion into this study. Animals were excluded if there was a known metabolic, toxic or traumatic cause of the seizure. Dogs were randomly assigned to receive either lorazepam (0.2?mg/kg IV) or diazepam (0.5?mg/kg IV), and the clinicians were blinded as to which drug they were administering. The duration of the study was 12 hours from the time of drug administration, and the animals were monitored for any indication of seizure activity, including generalized motor activity, focal motor activity (e.g., movement of facial or limb musculature) and change in the level of consciousness. The study ended at 12 hours post-study drug administration or when the dog seized before the end of the 12 hour study period. The results indicated no significant difference between lorazepam versus diazepam with regard to median seizure-free interval (2.8?h for diazepam versus 3.4?h for lorazepam, p=0.58 by log rank test), or with regard to percent seizure-free for the duration of the observation period (1/8 for lorazepam versus 3/8 for diazepam, p=0.51 by Fisher's exact test). There was also no difference between the 2 drugs regarding the number of animals in which seizures were initially controlled (6/8 in each group). Lorazepam used at this dose does not appear to result in a significant increase in duration of seizure control for dogs with status epilepticus and cluster seizures. Additional studies may be warranted using higher doses of lorazepam.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Liu, Debra T.
AU  - Silverstein, Deborah C.
TI  - Feline secondary spontaneous pneumothorax: A retrospective study of 16 cases (2000–2012)
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
JA  - Journal of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care
VL  - 24
IS  - 3
SN  - 1479-3261
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/vec.12150
DO  - doi:10.1111/vec.12150
SP  - 316
EP  - 325
KW  - asthma
KW  - cats
KW  - complication
KW  - pulmonary pathology
KW  - respiratory distress
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Objective To describe the demographics, clinical characteristics, diagnostic findings, underlying etiologies, treatment, and outcome associated with secondary spontaneous pneumothorax (SSP) in cats; and to identify clinical feature differences among cats with asthma associated secondary spontaneous pneumothorax (AASSP) versus nonasthma-associated secondary spontaneous pneumothorax (NAASSP). Design Retrospective case series. Setting University teaching hospital. Animals Sixteen client-owned cats with secondary spontaneous pneumothorax. Interventions None. Measurements and Main Results Domestic short hair was the predominant breed in this study (n = 15). The median age was 8 years old (range: 7 weeks to 17 years) with no sex predilection. Fourteen cats were affected by multi-lobar pulmonary pathology of infectious, inflammatory, or neoplastic causes. Asthma was the most common cause of spontaneous pneumothorax (25%). Ten of 12 treated cats survived the initial episode of spontaneous pneumothorax to discharge with medical management, including all 4 cats with AASSP. Reoccurrence was documented in 4 cats. Pulmonary lobectomy was curative for 1 cat with congenital accessory lung lobe emphysema. No difference in clinical presentation was identified between cats with AASSP and cats with NAASSP. Conclusions Feline SSP is frequently associated with extensive pulmonary pathology. Supportive medical management is most appropriate, except in rare cases with focal congenital abnormalities that may benefit from surgical intervention. AASSP appears to carry a good prognosis for short-term outcome (survival to discharge). Clinical assessment, imaging, and invasive diagnostics were required to differentiate between AASSP and NAASSP.
ER  - 
