
AU  - Hall, Roisin
AU  - Darroch, Donald
C7  - pp. 220-241
TI  - Project Management: Towards More Effective Applied Psychology
SN  - 9780470689172
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470661505.ch13
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780470661505.ch13
SP  - 220-241
KW  - project management - towards more effective applied psychology
KW  - principles of strategic management and good governance - competences which psychologists embrace
KW  - scientist–practitioner paradigm - setting the context in which majority of present-day psychologists get trained
KW  - psychology in organizational settings - limitations associated with individual focus
KW  - simple plan–do–review framework - oiling the wheels, not imposing bureaucratic or unduly complex structures
KW  - outcomes, type of risk assessment and management report - specific to situations
KW  - ‘planning’ stage involving risk assessment process, formulation, scenario planning and development of risk management plan
KW  - Multi Agency Public Protection Arrangements (MAPPA) process
KW  - Project management, building into structured framework, managing the work to achieve the desired outcome
KW  - benefits of project management - problem solving, decision-making and organisational management
PY  - 2010
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: So What is Project Management and How Can it Help? Could Project Management Principles Benefit Your Work? How is Project Management Different from Business as Usual? How to Sell Project Management to the Team? Defining the Principles of Project Management Conclusion
ER  - 

AU  - Bauer, Mark S.
C7  - pp. 281-357
TI  - Psychosocial Interventions for Bipolar Disorder
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/047084650X.ch4
DO  - doi:10.1002/047084650X.ch4
SP  - 281-357
KW  - bipolar disorder
KW  - psychotherapy
KW  - outcome
KW  - evidence-based medicine
KW  - process and outcome of care
PY  - 2002
AB  - Summary Because somatotherapy for bipolar disorder has led to only modest improvements in outcome in general clinical practice, increasing attention has been paid to psychosocial interventions as adjuvants to standard medical model treatment. This chapter complements and extends other recent reviews of this area by (a) evaluating psychotherapy studies according to the evidence rating criteria of the US Agency for Health Care Policy and Research; (b) analyzing which outcome domains are impacted by which types of psychotherapy; (c) reviewing studies of care organization (contexts of care) for bipolar disorder, tracing the roots of this area from descriptions of lithium clinics in the early 1970s through the recent federally funded controlled trials; and (d) identifying a core agenda common across most psychosocial interventions. The psychotherapy literature indicates that a broad array of modalities may be effective in improving clinical outcome, functional outcome, and disease management skills, with Class A studies supporting at least some couples/partners, cognitive-behavioral, family, and psychoeducational interventions. Controlled studies of context of care interventions are in their infancy, but are built on principles similar to those used in disease management programs for chronic medical illnesses. Despite the diversity of psychosocial interventions, there is substantial convergent validity for the importance of a common agenda of a collaborative approach illness management that includes education about the illness, and identification of patient-specific symptom patterns, and development of action plans for response to relapse. A research agenda focusing on interventions that are sustainable in general clinical practice is of the highest priority.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nelson, David V.
AU  - Bennett, Robert M.
AU  - Barkhuizen, Andre
AU  - Sexton, Gary J.
AU  - Jones, Kim D.
AU  - Esty, Mary Lee
AU  - Ochs, Len
AU  - Donaldson, C. C. Stuart
TI  - Neurotherapy of Fibromyalgia?
JO  - Pain Medicine
VL  - 11
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1526-4637.2010.00862.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1526-4637.2010.00862.x
SP  - 912
EP  - 919
KW  - Fibromyalgia
KW  - Complementary Therapies
KW  - Biofeedback
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Objective.? To evaluate the efficacy of a novel variant of electroencephalograph biofeedback, the Low Energy Neurofeedback System (LENS), that utilizes minute pulses of electromagnetic stimulation to change brainwave activity for the amelioration of fibromyalgia (FM) symptoms. Design.? Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Setting.? Tertiary referral academic medical center, outpatient. Patients.? Thirty-four patients diagnosed with FM according to 1990 American College of Rheumatology classification criteria. Interventions.? Active or sham LENS, depending on randomization, for 22 treatment sessions. Outcome Measures.? Primary outcome measure was the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire total score. Secondary outcome measures included number of tender points (TPs) and pressure required to elicit TPs on physical examination, quantitative sensory testing heat pain threshold, and self-reported cognitive dysfunction, fatigue, sleep problems, global psychological distress, and depression obtained at baseline, immediate post-treatment, and 3- and 6-month follow-up. Results.? Participants who received the active or sham interventions improved (Ps?<?0.05) on the primary and a variety of secondary outcome measures, without statistically significant between group differences in evidence at post-treatment or 3- or 6-month follow-up. Individual session self-reported ratings of specific symptoms (cognitive dysfunction, fatigue, pain, and sleep, and overall activity level) over the course of the 22 intervention sessions indicated significant linear trends for improvement for the active intervention condition only (Ps?<?0.05). Conclusion.? LENS cannot be recommended as a single modality treatment for FM. However, further study is warranted to investigate the potential of LENS to interact synergistically with other pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic therapies for improving symptoms in FM.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Atwell, Brian J.
AU  - Greenway, Hank
AU  - Colmer, Timothy D.
C8  - 2014-17920
TI  - Efficient use of energy in anoxia-tolerant plants with focus on germinating rice seedlings
JO  - New Phytologist
JA  - New Phytol
VL  - 206
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.13173
DO  - doi:10.1111/nph.13173
SP  - 36
EP  - 56
KW  - anoxia tolerance
KW  - energy budget
KW  - membrane transport
KW  - Oryza sativa
KW  - pHstat
KW  - PPi-consuming H+-translocase (V-H+PPiase)
KW  - pyrophosphate (PPi)-dependent enzymes
KW  - rice seedlings
PY  - 2015
AB  - 36 I. 36 II. 37 III. 44 IV. 49 V. 53 54 References 55 Summary Anoxia tolerance in plants is distinguished by direction of the sparse supply of energy to processes crucial to cell maintenance and sometimes to growth, as in rice seedlings. In anoxic rice coleoptiles energy is used to synthesise proteins, take up K+, synthesise cell walls and lipids, and in cell maintenance. Maintenance of electrochemical H+ gradients across the tonoplast and plasma membrane is crucial for solute compartmentation and thus survival. These gradients sustain some H+-solute cotransport and regulate cytoplasmic pH. Pyrophosphate (PPi), the alternative energy donor to ATP, allows direction of energy to the vacuolar H+-PPiase, sustaining H+ gradients across the tonoplast. When energy production is critically low, operation of a biochemical pHstat allows H+-solute cotransport across plasma membranes to continue for at least for 18 h. In active (e.g. growing) cells, PPi produced during substantial polymer synthesis allows conversion of PPi to ATP by PPi-phosphofructokinase (PFK). In quiescent cells with little polymer synthesis and associated PPi formation, the PPi required by the vacuolar H+-PPiase and UDPG pyrophosphorylase involved in sucrose mobilisation via sucrose synthase might be produced by conversion of ATP to PPi through reversible glycolytic enzymes, presumably pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase. These hypotheses need testing with species characterised by contrasting anoxia tolerance.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Westwood, Barbara
AU  - Westwood, Geoff
TI  - Falls in older persons in Australia: screening instruments for general practitioners
JO  - Australasian Journal on Ageing
VL  - 22
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1741-6612.2003.tb00487.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1741-6612.2003.tb00487.x
SP  - 151
EP  - 156
PY  - 2003
AB  - Falls are a relatively common problem in older people in Australia causing significant morbidity including restricted activities of daily living and increased mortality. Falls may initiate institutionalisation and will increase in significance with the rapidly ageing population profile. Falls in older people are attributed to multiple factors and are potentially preventable with early detection and intervention. General practitioners, as the primary community medical care providers, are in an ideal position to screen all older patients for falls risk. A detailed history to identify falls risk factors should be complemented by screening with a simple and easy to use screening instrument. The requirements of a reliable and validated falls screening instrument are explored along with a review of available instruments. Although the literature is inconclusive, a suitable falls screening instrument is identified for use by general practitioners.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hussey, S.
AU  - Gander, R.
AU  - Southern, P.
AU  - Hoang, M.
TI  - Subcutaneous Phaeohyphomycosis Caused by Cladophialophora Bantiana
JO  - Journal of Cutaneous Pathology
VL  - 32
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320cy.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320cy.x
SP  - 94
EP  - 94
PY  - 2005
AB  - Primary subcutaneous phaeohyphomycosis can rarely be caused by Cladophialophora bantiana. Only two cases have been reported and we present the histologic and culture findings of another. A 32-year-old black female with systemic lupus erythematosus presented with a two-year history of multiple, recurrent, tender, ulcerated skin nodules with purulent drainage involving an area measuring approximately 27.0???15.0?cm on her upper back. She had been involved in a tornado at age 10 and had sustained traumatic implantation of wood splinters in this area. Sections of the excision showed scattered dark pinpoint foci with surrounding suppuration extending to the deep aspect of the specimen. Histology demonstrated features of phaeohyphomycosis ? foci of granulomatous and acute inflammation with central clusters of dematiaceous fungal hyphae within a fibrotic dermis and subcutaneous tissue. Chains of brown-pigmented septate hyphae and unicellular conidia were identified. Culture revealed pigmented septate, branched hyphae and unbranched acropetal chains of conidia with no attachment hila. Dark gray, velvety colonies formed in one week on a potato dextrose agar plate incubated at 25 degrees Celsius. These culture features were characteristic of Cladophialophora bantiana. Despite surgical excision and itraconazole therapy, her skin lesions persisted for the next two years necessitating a re-excision.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Platform Session B: Clinical Neurophysiology/Clinical Epilepsy  3:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
SP  - 264
EP  - 268
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Jose F. Tellez-Zenteno, 1 Scott B. Patten, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Studies indicate that up to 50% of patients with epilepsy have mental health disorders, with mood, anxiety, and psychotic disturbances being the most common. However, the prevalence of psychiatric illnesses in persons with epilepsy in the general population varies, owing to differences in methods, population, case ascertainment, and heterogeneity of epilepsy syndromes. We assessed the prevalence of self-reported, physician diagnosed mental health conditions associated with epilepsy in a large Canadian population health survey Methods: The Canadian Community Health Survey (CHS, N = 36,984) used probabilistic sampling to explore numerous aspects of mental health in the entire Canadian population, of whom 253 subjects had epilepsy. With sampling weights, the prevalence of epilepsy was 0.6%. Depression was ascertained with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (Short Form). Other valid scales various aspects of psychiatric comorbidity. The prevalence of drug and alcohol use, and abnormal ideation were ascertained through personal interviews. We explored age specific prevalence of mental health problems in epilepsy Results: The lifetime prevalence of depression was 22.2% (95%CI 14.0?30.4%) compared with 12.2% in the general population. The prevalence of depression in people with epilepsy was higher than in the general population in younger, but not older (>64 years) age groups. There was a marked effect of age on the prevalence of major depression (higher in younger individuals). The prevalence of social phobia was 15.8% (8.4?23.2) in people with epilepsy and 8.1% (7.6?8.5) in the general population. The 12-month prevalence of drug or alcohol dependence was not higher in people with epilepsy (3.0%) than in the general population (3.1%). Lifetime suicidal ideation was higher in patients with epilepsy 25.0% (95% CI 16.6?33.3) than in the general population 13.3% (95% CI 12.8?13.9) Conclusions: The prevalence of depression was considerable higher in younger people with epilepsy than in the general population. Social phobia and low indices of well being were more prevalent in epilepsy. We corroborated a high prevalence of suicidal ideation was in epilepsy patients. In contrast to other reports, we did not find a higher prevalence of alcohol and drug dependence in people with epilepsy. The complete analysis of mental health comorbidity will be presented 1 Miranda Geelhoed, 1 Anne Olde Boerrigter, 2 Peter R. Camfield, 1 Ada T. Geerts, 1 Willem Arts, 2 Bruce M. Smith, and 2 Carol S. Camfield ( 1 Department of Pediatric Neurology, Erasmus MC, Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, Netherlands ; and 2 Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University and IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS, Canada ) Rationale: About 50?60% of children with epilepsy eventually outgrow their seizure disorder. A number of predictive factors have been statistically associated with remission but it is unclear how accurate these factors are when applied to an individual child. Two large prospective cohort studies of childhood epilepsy (Nova Scotia and the Netherlands) each developed a statistical model to predict long-term outcome. We evaluated the accuracy of a prognostic model based on the two studies combined. Methods: A wealth of clinical and EEG variables were available for patients in both cohort studies. Data analyses with classification tree models and stepwise logistic regression produced predictive models for the combined dataset and the two separate cohorts. The resulting models were then externally validated on the opposite cohort. Remission was defined as no longer receiving daily medication for any length of time at the end of follow-up. Results: The combined cohorts yielded 1055 evaluable patients. At the end of follow up (≥5 years in >96%), 622 (59%) were in remission. Using the combined data, the classification tree model and the logistic regression model predicted the outcome (remission or no remission) correctly in approximately 70% (sensitivity ?72%, specificity?65%, positive predictive value?75%, negative predictive value ? 62%). The classification tree model split the data on epilepsy syndrome and age at first seizure. Independent statistically significant predictors in the logistic regression model were: seizure number before treatment, age at first seizure, absence seizures, epilepsy types of symptomatic generalized and symptomatic partial, pre-existing neurological signs, intelligence and the combination of febrile seizures and cryptogenic partial epilepsy. When the prediction models from each cohort were cross-validated on the opposite cohort, the outcome was predicted slightly less accurately than the model from the combined data. Conclusions: Based on currently available clinical and EEG variables, predicting the outcome of childhood epilepsy is difficult and appears to be incorrect in about one of every three patients. Predictions schemes are statistically robust but clinically relatively inaccurate. We suggest that clinicians should be cautious in applying prediction models when developing management strategies for individual children with epilepsy. 1 A. T. Berg, 2 B. G. Vickrey, 3 S. Smith, 3 F. M. Testa, 4 S. Shinnar, 3 S. R. Levy, 5 F. DiMario, and 3 B. Beckerman ( 1 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ; 2 Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Montefiore Hospital, Bronx, NY ; and 5 Neurology, CCMC, Hartford, CT ) Rationale: It is typically assumed that intractablility is evident soon after the onset of epilepsy. Retrospective histories from surgical patients, however, suggest that intractable seizures may not be evident for many years, particularly in partial epilepsy of childhood onset. Methods: In a community-based study of 613 children in Connecticut with newly diagnosed epilepsy (1993?97) prospectively followed a median of 9 years, the timing of the appearance of intractable epilepsy from date of initial diagnosis was determined. Two definitions for intractable epilepsy were used: 1) ?Strict:? 2 AED failures, ≥1 seizure/month for 18 months; 2) ?Loose:? 2 AED failures. Differences in the timing of the appearance of intractability were examined as a function of type of epilepsy syndrome. Results: Eighty-two children met the strict criteria for intractability: 38/294 (13%) of those with cryptogenic or symptomatic partial epilepsy (C/S-PE), 35/67 (52%) of those with an epileptic encephalopathy (EE) and 9/241 (4%) of those with idiopathic or other forms of epilepsy (p < 0.0001). Eleven children followed<18 months were not assigned an outcome. Twenty-five (30%) of the 82 intractable cases took >3 years to meet the strict criteria for intractability. The primary interest was in comparing EE and C/S-PE groups. Five of 35 (14%) intractable cases in the EE group versus 17/38 (45%) in the C/S-PE group met criteria at >3 years (p = 0.005). Loose criteria for intractability (2 AED failures) were met by 135 children. Of these, 32 (24%) met criteria >3 years after diagnosis: 1/46 in the EE group versus 25/69 in the C/S-PE group (p < 0.0001). In the C/S-PE group, 18/25 (72%) 25 who failed a second drug >3 years after diagnosis had experienced a 1+ year remission before the second drug failure. Conclusions: Poor seizure outcome is generally evident from the outset in the epileptic encephalopathies such as West, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. By contrast, the appearance of intractability may be delayed in cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy. Retrospective data1 suggest that with a median follow-up of 9 years, roughly a third to half the intractable cases that might occur in the cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy group have yet to declare themselves. Only continued prospective study in the current cohort, however, will reveal the eventual true burden of intractability and its time course. REFERENCE 1.?Berg AT, et al How long does it take for partial epilepsy to become intractable Neurology, 2003;60: 186?190. (Supported by NIH RO1-NS31146.) 1 Christina A. Palmese, 1 Marla J. Hamberger, 1 David Weintraub, 2 Nikolaos Scarmeas, 1 Hyunmi Choi, and 1 Lawrence J. Hirsch ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Taub Institute, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: It is well established that individuals with epilepsy frequently report memory problems and show deficits on objective memory measures. In recent years, cholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil have been shown to improve memory or delay memory decline in patients with other neurological disorders (e.g., dementia, multiple sclerosis). The purpose of this double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study was to determine whether donepezil would improve memory or other cognitive functions in epilepsy patients. Methods: Twenty-three epilepsy patients with subjective memory complaints (9 simple partial, 14 complex partial or generalized; mean age: 41 SD = 9.25; 16 males, 7 females) were tested at baseline, after 3 months on donepezil, and after 3 months on placebo. Patients were randomized into two treatment groups receiving 3 months of donepezil followed by 3 months of a placebo, or vice versa. Donepezil was started at a dose of 5mg/day for 4 weeks and increased to 10mg/day for the remaining 8 weeks. Functions tested included verbal memory (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test, Medical College of Georgia (?MCG?) story memory), visual memory (MCG Figure Memory Test), Attention (Continuous Attention Test, Stroop Test), visuomotor speed (Symbol Digit Coding), and fine motor speed and dexterity (Grooved Pegboard). Subjective memory complaints, quality of life and mood were assessed with the QOLIE-31 and Profile of Mood Scale (POMS). Change scores were calculated comparing baseline with both placebo and donepezil, and these difference scores were compared via paired sample t-tests. Results: While on donepezil, patients exhibited significantly stronger performance on MCG immediate story recall (donepezil mean change: 11.08 (SD = 11.69), placebo mean change: 6.78 (SD = 10.99), p = .04). However, they also showed poorer Stroop performance (p = .02), reported lower energy and ?vigor? (p = .01), and indicated poorer ?quality of life? (p = .01) on donepezil compared to placebo. Across donepezil and placebo treatment periods, there were no significant changes in subjective memory report or in number of side effects reported while patients were on donepezil versus placebo. There were also no significant differences in seizure frequency (p = .55). No patient reported any adverse event. Conclusions: Although patients exhibited improvement in immediate memory while on donepezil, they also exhibited worsening in attention, energy and quality of life. These results suggest that donepezil does not provide significant benefit for patients with epilepsy and subjective memory impairment, though this does not rule out possible benefit in individuals. There was no effect on seizure frequency in this study. (Supported by Pfizer Inc.) 1 Alison M. Pack, 2 Martha J. Morrell, 1 Alison Randall, 1 Silvia Done, 1 Edith Flaster, and 3 Elizabeth Shane ( 1 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA ; and 3 Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: We previously reported significant bone loss at the femoral neck of the hip in women with epilepsy receiving phenytoin (PHT) when followed for 1 year longitudinally. It has been postulated that adverse effects on bone secondary to PHT treatment are a result of enzyme inducing increased metabolism of vitamin D. We hypothesized that concentrations of vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment would be significantly lower in women treated with PHT than other AEDs including carbamazepine (CBZ), valproate (VPA), and lamotrigine (LTG). Methods: Women with epilepsy aged 18?40 receiving AED monotherapy were recruited. AEDs studied were PHT, CBZ, VPA and LTG. Subjects had baseline bone mineral density (BMD) studies as assessed by DXA and serologic measurements of calcium and vitamin D metabolites (25, hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D). Subjects were followed for 1 year and repeat studies were obtained. Correlation between change in BMD and calcium and vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment was evaluated. Results: Data was obtained from 66 women. There were 7 women receiving PHT, 27 receiving CBZ, 13 receiving VPA, and 19 receiving LTG. Serum calcium levels did not change significantly after 1 year of treatment in all AED treated groups. As we previously reported, baseline calcium levels were significantly lower in women treated with PHT, CBZ, and VPA compared to those treated with LTG. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations also did not change significantly in any of the AED treated groups. As we previously reported, there was no significant difference among baseline levels of 25, hydroxyvitamin D among the AED treated groups. Serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations were significantly higher after 1 year of treatment in LTG treated women (32.80 ? 39.55 pg/ml; p = 0.0067). Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT (31.10 ? 24.70 pg/ml). BMD loss at the femoral neck of the hip did not correlate with changes in calcium or vitamin D metabolite concentrations. Conclusions: Calcium and 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations did not change significantly in women treated with PHT, CBZ, VPA, and LTG and followed longitudinally for 1 year. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D is the most commonly used index of vitamin D status. Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT for 1 year. BMD loss did not correlate with changes in either calcium or vitamin D metabolites. The lack of significance of these findings may in part be explained by the small sample size of the PHT treated group. However, they do suggest that previously reported bone loss in PHT treated women may not be secondary to effects on vitamin D metabolism. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Douglas R. Nordli, 2 Solomon L. Moshé, 3 L. Matthew Frank, 4 John M. Pellock, 5 Darrell V. Lewis, 4 Anthony Marmarou, 6 Dale C. Hesdorffer, 2 Shlomo Shinnar, and 1?5 FEBSTAT Study Team ( 1 Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL ; 2 Montefiore, Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; 3 Children's Hospital of The King's Daughter, Norfolk, VA ; 4 Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 5 Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC ; and 6 Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: To study the role of acute EEG studies in children with febrile status epilepticus in predicting acute MRI abnormalities and later development of epilepsy and, more specifically, of subsequent mesial temporal sclerosis and temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: As part of the multi-institutional FEBSTAT study, neurological examinations, MRIs with particualr attention to the hippocampus, and EEGs were performed within 72 hours of febrile status epilepticus in children five years of age or younger. EEGs are read by two independent readers, blinded to clinical histories, and a consensus is reached. The primary outcome measure of the ongoing FEBSTAT study is the development of MTS, clinical epilepsy, or both. The study also seeks to determine if initial imaging and EEG studies can predict outcome. Results: As of April, 2005, 75 subjects have been enrolled. Consensus readings have been performed on the first 46 EEGs. Of these, 11 (24%) showed one or more abnormality. Specific findings include the following. Nine EEGs demonstrated slowing or attenuation, which was localized to the temporal lobe in 8 cases (17%). In one circumstance the attenuation involved the entire hemisphere. Two other EEGs showed diffuse slowing only. Spikes were the exclusive abnormality in only two tracings (frontal in one, and posterior temporal in the other). Temporal lobe spikes were seen along with temporal lobe slowing in only two cases. Conclusions: Focal temporal slowing, attenuation, or both is seen in 17% of children with febrile status epilepticus indicating temporal lobe dysfunction in this group. Focal epileptiform discharges were half as common. Further analysis will determine whether the acute EEG abnormalities correlate with hippocampal T2 signal abnormalities that are being seen in a significant number of children in this cohort. Additionally, the design of the study will allow us to look at the evolution of the EEG in those children at high risk for the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by NINDS NS43209: Consequences of Prolonged Febrile Seizures in Childhood.) 1 Stephan U. Schuele, 1 Adriana C. Bermeo, 1 Richard C. Burgess, 1 Dudley Dinner, and 1 Nancy Foldvary ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Ictal asystole with focal epilepsy is a rare but potentially life-threatening event and is a likely contributor to sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). Risk factors allowing early detection and intervention are unknown and ictal asystole remains an incidental finding in large monitoring populations. While there have been some inconsistent correlations (such as more frequent accompaniment to left temporal lobe seizures) semiologic characteristics associated with ictal asystole have not been described, and may be helpful in screening for high risk patients. Methods: Electronic database search of all patients undergoing longterm Video-EEG monitoring between 1994 and 2005 with episodes of aystole during simultaneous ECG acquisition. Patients with asystole during non-epileptic events (e.g. syncopal events) were excluded. Results: Ictal asystole was found in seven out of 5977 patients (0.12%) and occured in 12 out of 42 (29%) of their recorded events. Two of the patients were male and five female, mean age was 28 years (range 2 to 54 years). Asystole occured on average 41 seconds (s) after EEG onset (range 3?95 s) and was in all cases preceded by sinus bradycardia. Duration of asystole averaged 17 s (range 4?33 s). Sinus rhythm recurred spontaneously in all patients without requiring cardiac resusciation. Temporal lobe epilepsy was diagnosed in five patients, in three on the right, in one on the left and in one bilateral. Asystole in this group lasted between 4.5s and 33 s. In all five patients, episodes of sudden unresponsiveness associated with manual or oral automatism were reported as typical events. During the Video-EEG monitoring in four of these five patients, the habitual semiology was followed by a pronounced sudden loss of tone and body posture coinciding with the asystole. In the one patient without noticeable loss of tone, a generalized tonic seizure lasting more than 20s occured within five seconds after onset of the asystole. All five patients underwent pacemaker implantation. Two patients had extratemporal lobe epilepsy. One suffered from axial tonic seizures associated with a regional EEG seizure pattern over the vertex. The other one had episodes of unresponsiveness and staring associated with a left hemispheric focal epilepsy. Asystole lasted between 4s and 7s and no loss of tone was noted during Video-EEG monitoring. Conclusions: Ictal aystole is a rare but potentially life-threatening event. It is most commonly seen in patients with right or left temporal lobe epilepsy. Although a history of atonia and falls is often not obtained, loss of tone and posture can frequently be seen during Video-EEG-monitoring. Drop attacks at clinical onset have been reported in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, however a delayed sudden loss of tone is distinctly uncommon and may be revealed by a detailed history. Further cardiac monitoring in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and delayed atonia or drop attacks might be warranted. 1 Gregory D. Cascino, 1 Edward M. Manno, 2 Eric A. Pfeifer, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Eelco F.M. Wijdicks ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 2 Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: To evaluate the incidence and significance of cardiac contraction band necrosis (CBN) in patients who die during status epilepticus (SE). CBN has been observed in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and other life-threatening neurological emergencies. Massive catecholamine release may be the mechanism of CBN and cardiac arrhythmias that occur in these individuals. Methods: We retrospectively evaluated 28 patients who were derived from 54 consecutive patients with SE who underwent an autopsy between January 1975 and December 2003. The medical and pathological records were reviewed in all patients. Twenty six individuals were excluded because of an inability to confirm the diagnosis of SE or unavailability of cardiac anatomical specimens for examination. The 28 patients were divided into two groups: Group I- Died during refractory SE (n = 11), Group II- Died remote from SE (n = 17). The cardiac pathology in the two groups was compared to 22 randomly selected individuals (control group) who died without a known history of seizures. Nonconvulsive SE was confirmed by EEG studies. One investigator (EP) blinded to the clinical history and previous pathology reports reviewed the cardiac pathology slides for CBN. Results: There were no significant differences in age, gender or history of heart disease between the three patient groups. Nine of the Group I patients had generalized convulsive SE and two patients had nonconvulsive SE. Eight of the 11 patients in Group I had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p < 0.01, Fisher's exact test). Three of 17 patients in Group II had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p = 1.0, Fisher's exact test). CBN occurred more frequently in Group I patients than Group II patients (p < .01, Fisher's exact test). Conclusions: Cardiac CBN was identified in most patients in this series who died during an episode of SE. This specific anatomical pathology was uncommon in patients with a remote history of SE or an age-matched control group. This study provides compelling evidence that cardiac CBN may be a potential pathophysiology for cardiac decompensation and death in individuals with SE or seizure activity. (Supported by Mayo Foundation.) 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Francois Dubeau, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Seizures recorded with subdural grids have demonstrated high frequency activities up to 130Hz in contacts close to the seizure focus. We report localized changes in high frequency activity during seizures in patients with temporal and extra-temporal epilepsy implanted with depth macroelectrodes. Methods: Intracranial EEGs were obtained from stereotaxically-placed depth and epidural electrodes filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz in 8 consecutive patients. The epileptic zone was well-localized in 6 patients with 4 having mesial temporal (MT) and 2 having frontal neocortical foci with dysplastic lesions, and was regional or poorly localized in 2 others. Characteristic EEG sections lasting 3?10 s were selected within the seizures of each patient to reflect ictal onset, propagation and termination. Distinct high frequency (>100 Hz) segments were identified visually in the background and in the seizure sections by analyzing the expanded record dually with 50Hz and 100 Hz high-pass filters. Focal changes in high frequency activity during the seizure were also identified using spectral analysis by comparing section band powers (i.e. slow (0?40Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz)) with the background. Results: 12 seizures were analyzed from the 4 patients with MT foci, 7 from the 2 patients with neocortical foci, and 4 from the 2 patients with no definitive epileptogenic zone. Discrete, focal VHF segments were visually identified at seizure onset in 4/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone. Increased HF activity compared to the background was distinguished both visually and with spectral analysis later in the seizures of 3/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone and, in one patient, areas of contralateral peri-hippocampal propagation. The 2 patients with neocortical foci had increased HF activity confined to the epileptic zone late in their seizures, identified by visual and spectral analysis. No discrete HF or VHF activity was present in the poorly-localized seizures. Conclusions: VHF segments (fast ripples?) were consistently present in the epileptic zone early in seizures of patients with MT epilepsy. In contrast, HF activity was seen more prominently later in seizures, involving the epileptogenic areas of MT and neocortical patients, as well as areas of mesial temporal propagation. Changes in high frequency activity (100 to 500Hz) were absent in patients whose seizures were poorly-localized.This study demonstrates that changes in high frequency activity occur in regions of primary epileptogenesis and secondary spread in anatomically different foci. These activities may reflect focal synchronization of neuronal ensembles that are important in initiating or maintaining ictal activity. Moreover, absent high frequency activity seems to indicate poor localization. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Heinrich Vogt, 1 Thomas Baisch, and 1 Ian W. Mothersill ( 1 Swiss Epilepsy Center, Swiss Epilepsy Center, Zuerich, Switzerland ) Rationale: The progressive myoclonus epilepsies comprise a heterogenous group of diseases wich are clinically characterised by myoclonus with variable localisation, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, progressive dementia of variable severity and neurological symptomes, usually cerebellar. It is generally accepted that the locomotory disablement is due to cerebellar ataxia. We observed that in the course of the disease negative myoclonias are one of the most striking symptom and hypothesised that they were the main reason for locomotor disability. Methods: Negative myoclonias are very difficult to recognise without ictal polygraphic recordings in freely moving patients.We performed ictal polygraphic video-EEG-recordings (16 channel EEG, 8 channel surface EMG) in 13 patients with EPM1 (Unverricht-Lundborg Disease), proven by mutation of the CSTB Gene, 1 MERFF with a mitochondrial point mutation and 2 EPM2 (Lafora disease), proven by skin biopsy. Results: All 16 patients presented with negative myoclonias of short duration either isolated or in combination with myoclonus. They were provoked by voluntary movement. The duration of the muscular atonia was between 100 and 300 ms. Except 3 patients with EPM1 all where wheelchair bound, mainly due to fear of falls, caused by the frequent muscle atonias. Conclusions: We have shown, using simultaneous EEG/EMG recordings in freely moving patients, that the locomotor disability is in fact mainly due to negative myoclonus in voluntary innervated muscles. 1 Florian Mormann, 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Department of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: The localization of the epileptic focus from intracranial EEG recordings during the interictal period (i.e., without the necessity of observing any seizures) has been a focus of research in the past years. In addition to linear and nonlinear univariate measures, bivariate measures for synchronization have been shown to be capable of correctly lateralizing the focal hemisphere in the majority of cases. A more precise localization of the focal area, however, has not been achieved. Since the pathological neurons constituting the epileptic focus are assumed to drive the surrounding tissue, we used bivariate measures of directionality to investigate the driving influence of a focal area on the surrounding regions. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, the total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Side of focus was assessed by complete postoperative seizure control after selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Histopathological evaluation showed hippocampal sclerosis in all cases. A measure for directionality of phase coupling was calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique and then averaged over time. Results: In 26 out of 30 cases, we found a distinct region in the ipsilateral hippocampal formation that drove the surrounding regions both in the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal formation. The spatial extent of this region was usually found to range between 5 and 20 mm. Conclusions: Even during the seizure-free interval, the focus appears to be driving its surrounding areas. Its influence can be seen not only on the ipsilateral, but also on the contralateral temporal lobe. Analysis using directionality measures may allow a functional delineation of the focal area during the presurgical evaluation as a prerequisite for super-selective resection in epilepsy surgery. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1,4 Marizabel Rozas Latorre, 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2 Micah Brown, and 2,3 Don M. Tucker ( 1 Neurology, Regional Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesic, INC., Eugene, OR ; 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ; and 4 Neurología, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Lima, Peru ) Rationale: To determine the regions of cerebral cortex activated during the onset and propagation of electroencephalographic (EEG) epileptiform patterns in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). Methods: Ten patients with the clinical diagnosis of JME were included; there were three women and seven men between 16 and 38 years of age. Standard EEG studies demonstrated generalized 4?6 Hz spike-wave or multiple spike-wave discharges. In all cases the MRI and neurological exams were normal. A dense-array, 256-channel scalp EEG recorded epileptiform discharges in each patient. Source analyses of discharges were performed in all subjects, using an equivalent dipole (BESA) and two linear inverse methods (LORETA and LAURA), with results co-registered to a standard MRI model. Results: The three methods of source analyses yielded generally convergent results. In all patients epileptiform discharges engaged orbital-frontal cortex and basal-mesial temporal regions, with the left side more often involved than the right. Activation of occipital cortex was also frequent, with occasional rapid spread to superior or mesial frontal, or parietal regions. Spike components preferentially activated orbital-frontal and temporal cortex, while slow wave elements had wider distributions over the same areas. Some variations were found in propagation patterns both within and between subjects. Conclusions: Epileptiform patterns in JME patients have both localized onsets and a restricted cortical network during propagation that consistently includes orbital-frontal and basal-mesial temporal areas, with less frequent activation of occipital cortex and other regions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Matthews, Hannah
AU  - Williamson, Iain
TI  - Caught between compassion and control: exploring the challenges associated with inpatient adolescent mental healthcare in an independent hospital
JO  - Journal of Advanced Nursing
JA  - J Adv Nurs
VL  - 72
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jan.12889
DO  - doi:10.1111/jan.12889
SP  - 1042
EP  - 1053
KW  - burnout
KW  - diaries
KW  - healthcare assistants
KW  - mental health nursing
KW  - moral distress
KW  - phenomenology
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Aim To extend our understanding of how healthcare assistants construct and manage demanding situations in a secure mental health setting and to explore the effects on their health and well-being, to provide recommendations for enhanced support. Background Contemporary literature acknowledges high rates of occupational stress and burnout among healthcare assistants, suggesting the context in which they work places them at elevated risk of physical harm and psychological distress. Yet, there is a deficit of qualitative research exploring the experiences of healthcare assistants in adolescent inpatient facilities. Design An exploratory multi-method qualitative approach was used to collect data about the challenges faced by healthcare assistants working on secure adolescent mental health wards in an independent hospital during 2014. Method Fifteen sets of data were collected. Ten participants completed diary entries and five participants were also interviewed allowing for triangulation. Data were analysed using Interpretive Phenomenological Analysis. Findings The findings illustrated how inpatient mental healthcare is a unique and distinctive area of nursing, where disturbing behaviour is often normalized and detached from the outside world. Healthcare assistants often experienced tension between their personal moral code which orientate them towards empathy and support and the emotional detachment and control expected by the organization, contributing to burnout and moral distress. Conclusions This study yielded insights into mental health nursing and specifically the phenomenon of moral distress. Given the ever-increasing demand for healthcare professionals, the effects of moral distress on both the lives of healthcare assistants and patient care, merits further study.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Murphy, Andrew
AU  - Neep, Michael
TI  - An investigation into the use of radiographer abnormality detection systems by Queensland public hospitals
JO  - Journal of Medical Radiation Sciences
JA  - J Med Radiat Sci
VL  - 65
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jmrs.278
DO  - doi:10.1002/jmrs.278
SP  - 80
EP  - 85
KW  - Commenting
KW  - emergency radiology
KW  - patient care
KW  - radiographer abnormality detection system
KW  - red-dot system
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Introduction A Radiographer Abnormality Detection System (RADS), such as the ?red dot system?, involves radiographers highlighting the presence of potential acute abnormalities on radiographs in the emergency setting. The literature suggests little additional training is required of radiographers to participate in such a system, posing little impact on current workflow while remaining a cost-effective, easy-to-implement program. However, its use outside the United Kingdom is sporadic. The purpose of this study was to investigate the frequency of use of a RADS in Queensland public hospitals. Methods A cross-sectional web-based questionnaire was developed and distributed to 28 medical imaging department directors throughout metropolitan, rural and remote Queensland (Australia) public hospitals. The results of this survey were analysed using conventional descriptive statistics of response frequencies and the percentage of the sample. Results The questionnaire was completed by 25 radiography directors (89% response rate). Sixteen percent of respondents, all metropolitan-based, indicated a RADS was in operation (n = 4/25; 16%). Respondents without a RADS (n = 21/21; 100%) expressed interest in a trial. Just over half (n = 13/25; 52%) of the respondents believed their staff members were not trained appropriately to implement a RADS successfully. Conclusion This study found an infrequent use of RADSs in Queensland public hospitals. This finding presents a unique opportunity for medical imaging professionals to enhance communication between the facets of a multidisciplinary emergency team via the implementation of RADS complemented by a radiographer commenting system.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kumar, Abhishek
AU  - Sunita, Priyashree
AU  - Jha, Shivesh
AU  - Pattanayak, Shakti Prasad
TI  - Daphnetin inhibits TNF-α and VEGF-induced angiogenesis through inhibition of the IKKs/IκBα/NF-κB, Src/FAK/ERK1/2 and Akt signalling pathways
JO  - Clinical and Experimental Pharmacology and Physiology
JA  - Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol
VL  - 43
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1440-1681.12608
DO  - doi:10.1111/1440-1681.12608
SP  - 939
EP  - 950
KW  - anti-angiogenesis
KW  - daphnetin
KW  - TNF-α
KW  - VEGF
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Coumarins, identified as plant secondary metabolites possess diverse biological activities including anti-angiogenic properties. Daphnetin (DAP), a plant derived dihydroxylated derivative of coumarin has shown significant pharmacological properties such as anticancer, anti-arthritic and anti-inflammatory. The present study was performed to investigate the anti-angiogenic potential of DAP, focusing on the mechanism of action. The in vivo anti-angiogenic potential of DAP was evaluated by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-induced rat aortic ring (RAR) assay and chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay. For in vitro evaluation, wounding migration, transwell invasion, tube formation and apoptosis assays were performed on VEGF (8 ng/mL)-induced human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). The cellular mechanism of DAP was examined on TNFα (10 ng/mL) and VEGF-induced HUVECs by extracting the mRNA and protein levels using RT-qPCR and western blotting. Our data demonstrated that DAP inhibited the in vivo angiogenesis in the RAR and CAM assay. DAP also inhibited the different steps of angiogenesis, such as migration, invasion, and tube formation in HUVECs. DAP inhibited nuclear factor-?B signalling together including TNF-α induced I?Bα degradation; phosphorylation of I?B kinase (IKKα/?) and translocation of the NF-?B-p65 protein. Furthermore, western blotting revealed that DAP significantly down-regulated the VEGF-induced signalling such as c-Src, FAK, ERK1/2 and the related phosphorylation of protein kinase B (Akt) and VEGFR2 expressions. DAP reduced the elevated mRNA expression of iNOS, MMP2 and also, induced apoptosis in VEGF-stimulated HUVECs by the caspase-3 dependent pathway. Taken together, this study reveals that DAP may have novel prospective as a new multi-targeted medication for the anti-angiogenesis and cancer therapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kilborn, Jason J.
TI  - Twenty-five years of consumer bankruptcy in continental Europe: internalizing negative externalities and humanizing justice in Denmark
JO  - International Insolvency Review
JA  - Int. Insolv. Rev.
VL  - 18
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/iir.174
DO  - doi:10.1002/iir.174
SP  - 155
EP  - 185
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract This paper explores the problems and processes that led to the birth of consumer bankruptcy in continental Europe, a process that began in Denmark in January 1972 and culminated with the adoption of the Danish consumer debt adjustment act, Gældssaneringslov, on 9 May 1984. While this law is often described in primarily humanitarian terms, in the sense of offering a respite to ?hopelessly indebted? individuals, both the motivation for the law and its intended scope were not simply accretions on an already multi-layered welfare system. Instead, the law was designed primarily as a pragmatic response to economically wasteful collections activities that imposed negative externalities on debtors, creditors, and especially Danish society and state coffers; the law was intended to force creditors to internalize (or eliminate) these externalities with respect to all debtors unable to pay their debts within a reasonable period of 5 years. The paper also examines the growing pains of this new system. The law originally left significant administrative discretion to judges, which produced vast disparities in treatment of cases in different regions of the country. Ultimately, a reform implemented in October 2005 made the system more accessible, more unitary throughout the country, and more humane. The effects of this reform are already visible in statistical observations of the system, though significant regional variations persist. Given the striking coincidence in timing, this paper also offers brief comparative comments on the parallel design?but very different effect?of the most significant reform of the US consumer bankruptcy law, also effective in October 2005. Copyright ? 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gensby, Ulrik
AU  - Lund, Thomas
AU  - Kowalski, Krystyna
AU  - Saidj, Madina
AU  - Jørgensen, Anne-Marie Klint
AU  - Filges, Trine
AU  - Irvin, Emma
AU  - Amick III, Benjamin C.
AU  - Labriola, Merete
TI  - Workplace Disability Management Programs Promoting Return to Work: A Systematic Review
JO  - Campbell Systematic Reviews
JA  - Campbell Systematic Reviews
VL  - 8
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.4073/csr.2012.17
DO  - doi:10.4073/csr.2012.17
SP  - i
EP  - 155
PY  - 2012
AB  - This Campbell systematic review assesses the effectiveness of workplace disability management programs (?WPDM?) in promoting return to work. The review summarises findings from 13 studies, eight conducted in the USA and five in Canada. Participants were employees on sick leave, from the private and public sectors, with an inability to work due to physical injury, illness or mental disorders. WPDM programmes typically comprise multiple components, such as early and considerate contact, modified/tailored work schedule or duties, a revision of workplace roles, education of workplace staff, and rehabilitation activities. Programmes typically involved an inter-disciplinary team of competences from several corporate located key parties such as: occupational physicians and physiotherapists, occupational therapist/ergonomists, case managers/return-to work (?RTW?) coordinators, union representatives, supervisors, and managerial HR staff. A RTW policy was used to describe procedures, and stakeholder engagement with roles and responsibilities written into the policy. A joint labour-management committee may serve as a vehicle for developing consensus among key decision makers in the design, implementation and evaluation of each component, and inclusion of senior management may drive corporate support and commitment. The available evidence was not suitable for quantitative synthesis, so no overall conclusion on the effectiveness of WPDM programmes can be made. It cannot be determined if specific program components or specific sets of components are driving effectiveness. The majority of studies programs focused on musculoskeletal disorders during the off work/pre-return phase of the RTW process. There is little evidence regarding programmes targeting mental health conditions. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY This report presents a Campbell systematic review on the effectiveness of workplace disability management programs (WPDM programs) promoting return to work (RTW), as implemented and practised by employers. The objectives of this review were to assess the effects of WPDM programs, to examine components or combination of components, which appear more highly related to positive RTW outcomes, and get an understanding of the research area to assess needed research. Twelve databases were searched for peer-reviewed studies published between 1948 to July 2010 on WPDM programs provided by the employer to re-entering employees with injuries or illnesses (occupational or non-occupational). Screening of articles, risk of bias assessment and data extraction were conducted in pairs of reviewers. A total of 16,932 records were identified by the initial search. Of these 599 papers were assessed for relevance. Thirteen studies (two non-randomized studies (NRS) and eleven single group ?before and after? studies (B&A), including eleven different WPDM programs, met the inclusion criteria. There were insufficient data on the characteristics of the sample and the effect sizes were uncertain. However, narrative descriptions of the included program characteristics were rich, and provide valuable insights into program scope, components, procedures and human resources involved. There is a lack of evidence to draw unambiguous conclusions on the effectiveness of employer provided WPDM programs promoting RTW. Thus we could not determine if specific program components or specific sets of components are driving effectiveness. The review adds to the exiting knowledge base on WPDM program development, characteristics and evaluation. As an organizational level intervention employer provided WPDM programs are multi-component offering a suite of policies and practices for injured or ill employees. The review identified 15 constituent program components, covering individual, organizational, and system level policies and practices, depicting key human resources involved in workplace program procedures and administration. The majority of WPDM programs were targeted musculoskeletal disorders, during the off-work and pre-return phase of the RTW process, with only little evidence on WPDM programs targeting mental health conditions and post return/stay at work. Future program evaluations ought to broaden their focus beyond the first phases of the RTW process and incorporate sustainable outcomes (e.g. job retention, satisfactory and productive job performance, work role functioning, and maintenance of job function). Given the lack of WPDM programs evaluated in peer-reviewed publications, more attention needs to be given to locate and evaluate efforts from company studies that may still exist outside the peer reviewed published literature. Thus, researchers following this track need to consider if these studies, when located have adequate study designs. While many employers recognize the importance of WPDM and are adopting policies and practices to promote RTW, judging from this review, the existing evidence leaves room for more rigorous methodological studies to develop the present WPDM knowledge base. Prospectively WPDM evaluation research also needs to enlarge its perspective and analytic tools to examine information that is meaningful and cost effective to those who will benefit from it to further advance the field. The review findings might help explicate WPDM programs and its potential impact on RTW outcomes, and provide a more complete understanding of the research in the field of WPDM. This may inspire researchers, employers, and policy makers, who are interested not only in questions regarding the impact of programs, but also their nature, to promote future design and evaluation of DM in organizations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nicolazzo, Joseph A.
AU  - Charman, Susan A.
AU  - Charman, William N.
TI  - Methods to assess drug permeability across the blood-brain barrier
JO  - Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmacology
VL  - 58
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1211/jpp.58.3.0001
DO  - doi:10.1211/jpp.58.3.0001
SP  - 281
EP  - 293
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Much research has focussed on the development of novel therapeutic agents to target various central nervous system disorders, however less attention has been given to determining the potential of such agents to permeate the blood-brain barrier (BBB), a factor that will ultimately govern the effectiveness of these agents in man. In order to assess the potential for novel compounds to permeate the BBB, various in-vitro, in-vivo and in-silico methods may be employed. Although in-vitro models (such as primary cell culture and immortalized cell lines) are useful as a screening method and can appropriately rank compounds in order of BBB permeability, they often correlate poorly to in-vivo brain uptake due to down-regulation of some BBB-specific transporters. In-vivo models (such as the internal carotid artery single injection or perfusion, intravenous bolus injection, brain efflux index and intracerebral microdialysis) provide more accurate information regarding brain uptake, and these can be complemented with novel imaging techniques (such as magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography), although such methods are not suited to high-throughput permeability assessment. This paper reviews current methods used for assessing BBB permeability and highlights the particular advantages and disadvantages associated with each method, with a particular focus on methods suitable for moderate- to high-throughput screening.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Vitamins, Minerals, Supplements and Dietary Approaches
JO  - Focus on Alternative and Complementary Therapies
VL  - 8
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1211/fact.2003.00198
DO  - doi:10.1211/fact.2003.00198
SP  - 242
EP  - 242
PY  - 2003
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Riou, Julien
AU  - Guyon, Hervé
AU  - Falissard, Bruno
C8  - IJMPR-Apr-2015-0031.R2
TI  - An introduction to the partial least squares approach to structural equation modelling: a method for exploratory psychiatric research
JO  - International Journal of Methods in Psychiatric Research
JA  - Int. J. Methods Psychiatr. Res.
VL  - 25
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mpr.1497
DO  - doi:10.1002/mpr.1497
SP  - 220
EP  - 231
KW  - epidemiologic methods
KW  - structural equation modelling
KW  - PLS-SEM
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract In psychiatry and psychology, relationship patterns connecting disorders and risk factors are always complex and intricate. Advanced statistical methods have been developed to overcome this issue, the most common being structural equation modelling (SEM). The main approach to SEM (CB-SEM for covariance-based SEM) has been widely used by psychiatry and psychology researchers to test whether a comprehensive theoretical model is compatible with observed data. While the validity of this approach method has been demonstrated, its application is limited in some situations, such as early-stage exploratory studies using small sample sizes. The partial least squares approach to SEM (PLS-SEM) has risen in many scientific fields as an alternative method that is especially useful when sample size restricts the use of CB-SEM. In this article, we aim to provide a comprehensive introduction to PLS-SEM intended to CB-SEM users in psychiatric and psychological fields, with an illustration using data on suicidality among prisoners. Researchers in these fields could benefit from PLS-SEM, a promising exploratory technique well adapted to studies on infrequent diseases or specific population subsets. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yahata, Noriaki
AU  - Kasai, Kiyoto
AU  - Kawato, Mitsuo
TI  - Computational neuroscience approach to biomarkers and treatments for mental disorders
JO  - Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences
JA  - Psychiatry Clin. Neurosci.
VL  - 71
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/pcn.12502
DO  - doi:10.1111/pcn.12502
SP  - 215
EP  - 237
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - computational psychiatry
KW  - machine learning
KW  - neuroimaging
KW  - resting-state functional connectivity
PY  - 2017
AB  - Psychiatry research has long experienced a stagnation stemming from a lack of understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings of phenomenologically defined mental disorders. Recently, the application of computational neuroscience to psychiatry research has shown great promise in establishing a link between phenomenological and pathophysiological aspects of mental disorders, thereby recasting current nosology in more biologically meaningful dimensions. In this review, we highlight recent investigations into computational neuroscience that have undertaken either theory- or data-driven approaches to quantitatively delineate the mechanisms of mental disorders. The theory-driven approach, including reinforcement learning models, plays an integrative role in this process by enabling correspondence between behavior and disorder-specific alterations at multiple levels of brain organization, ranging from molecules to cells to circuits. Previous studies have explicated a plethora of defining symptoms of mental disorders, including anhedonia, inattention, and poor executive function. The data-driven approach, on the other hand, is an emerging field in computational neuroscience seeking to identify disorder-specific features among high-dimensional big data. Remarkably, various machine-learning techniques have been applied to neuroimaging data, and the extracted disorder-specific features have been used for automatic case?control classification. For many disorders, the reported accuracies have reached 90% or more. However, we note that rigorous tests on independent cohorts are critically required to translate this research into clinical applications. Finally, we discuss the utility of the disorder-specific features found by the data-driven approach to psychiatric therapies, including neurofeedback. Such developments will allow simultaneous diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders using neuroimaging, thereby establishing ?theranostics? for the first time in clinical psychiatry.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Alghetaa, Hasan
AU  - Mohammed, Amira
AU  - Sultan, Muthanna
AU  - Busbee, Philip
AU  - Murphy, Angela
AU  - Chatterjee, Saurabh
AU  - Nagarkatti, Mitzi
AU  - Nagarkatti, Prakash
TI  - Resveratrol protects mice against SEB-induced acute lung injury and mortality by miR-193a modulation that targets TGF-β signalling
JO  - Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
JA  - J Cell Mol Med
VL  - 22
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jcmm.13542
DO  - doi:10.1111/jcmm.13542
SP  - 2644
EP  - 2655
KW  - 3,4,5-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene
KW  - acute lung injury
KW  - death receptor 6
KW  - microRNA (miRNA/miR)
KW  - miR-193
KW  - pulmonary disease
KW  - resveratrol
KW  - staphylococcal enterotoxin B
KW  - transforming growth factor-beta
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) is a potent superantigen produced by Staphylococcus aureus that triggers a strong immune response, characterized by cytokine storm, multi-organ failure, and often death. When inhaled, SEB can cause acute lung injury (ALI) and respiratory failure. In this study, we investigated the effect of resveratrol (RES), a phytoallexin, on SEB-driven ALI and mortality in mice. We used a dual-exposure model of SEB in C3H/HeJ mice, which caused 100% mortality within the first 5 days of exposure, and treatment with RES resulted in 100% survival of these mice up to 10 days post-SEB exposure. RES reduced the inflammatory cytokines in the serum and lungs, as well as T cell infiltration into the lungs caused by SEB. Treatment with RES also caused increased production of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-?) in the blood and lungs. RES altered the miRNA profile in the immune cells isolated from the lungs. Of these, miR-193a was strongly induced by SEB and was down-regulated by RES treatment. Furthermore, transfection studies and pathway analyses revealed that miR-193a targeted several molecules involved in TGF-? signalling (TGF?2, TGF?R3) and activation of apoptotic pathways death receptor-6 (DR6). Together, our studies suggest that RES can effectively neutralize SEB-mediated lung injury and mortality through potential regulation of miRNA that promote anti-inflammatory activities.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Walker, S
AU  - Williams, Jason
AU  - O’Driscoll, J
AU  - Beck, M
TI  - FS01.4 Hailey Hailey disease – a significant hazard to consider when patch testing
JO  - Contact Dermatitis
VL  - 50
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309n.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0105-1873.2004.0309n.x
SP  - 127
EP  - 128
PY  - 2004
AB  - A 42 year old man was referred to the Contact Dermatitis Investigation Unit because of a 12 month history of an inflammatory eruption affecting his neck. He was patch tested to our standard series, textile series and his own medicaments. At the 48 hour reading the patches were removed and there were large areas of unusual painful superficial erosions where the patch test tape ? Scanporä had been in contact with the skin. This appearance was difficult to explain. He denied interfering with the patches. The erosions were dressed with non-adherent dressings held in place by a different tape- Microporeä. At the 96 hour reading these dressings were removed and in the areas under the Microporeä tape there were further erosions around the edge and also some thin walled vesicles and small bullae. There were ++ allergic reactions to sodium metabisulphite, disperse blue 35, 124 and 106 all of which were felt to be relevant as he had used Trimovateâ cream and regularly wore dark nylon clothing when refereeing lacrosse matches. A biopsy was taken for histology and immunofluorescence from an area of blistering. This demonstrated suprabasal acantholysis with vesicle formation. There were occasional corps ronds. The immunofluorescence was negative. Anti-epidermal (skin) antibodieswere also negative. This striking and alarming clinical presentation after removal of patch tests had been encountered once previously in our Contact Dermatitis Investigation Unit. The possibility that the disorder was artefactual either due to an irritant introduced under the tapes or perhaps due to a contaminant within the tape adhesive was considered but no conclusion was reached In this case the clue to diagnosis became apparent at the second patch test reading when small vesicles and bullae could be seen at the edge of where the Microporeâ had been. A diagnosis of Hailey Hailey disease (HHD) trigered by the trauma caused by the adhesive tapes and their removal was made. The relatively persistent nature of his presenting problem makes Grover?s disease less likely. The affected sites healed after two weeks. Allergic contact dermatitis particularly to medicaments is reported to be a frequent complication and routine patch testing has been advocated1. There has been a previous report of blistering at the site of patch testing however he was an individual already known to have HHD2. Despite having patch tested around 30 000 people in the last 22 years this complication had not been encountered until this year. We present this case whose clinical features are distinctive as we feel similar instances may have been or will be seen by colleagues. Diagnosis may be difficult if there are no blisters in association with the painful erosions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Biazus, Jorge Villanova
AU  - Falcão, Christiane Cardoso
AU  - Parizotto, Angela Ceconello
AU  - Stumpf, Camile Cesa
AU  - Cavalheiro, José Antônio Crespo
AU  - Schuh, Fernando
AU  - Cericatto, Rodrigo
AU  - Zucatto, Ângela Erguy
AU  - Melo, Márcia Portela
TI  - Immediate Reconstruction with Autologous fat Transfer Following Breast-Conserving Surgery
JO  - The Breast Journal
JA  - Breast J
VL  - 21
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/tbj.12397
DO  - doi:10.1111/tbj.12397
SP  - 268
EP  - 275
KW  - autologous fat grafting
KW  - breast cancer
KW  - breast-conserving surgery
KW  - breast reconstruction
KW  - lipofilling
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract This study explores the technical viability of autologous fat grafting for immediate partial breast reconstruction following the primary conservative surgery for breast cancer; restoring volume, shape, and symmetry to the treated breast. We analyze the impact in relation to mammographic follow-up and the subjective degree of satisfaction with esthetic results and although we didn't have any local failure during the observation period; we understand that is too early for any kind of conclusion. From June of 2010 to July of 2011, 20 patients were selected for breast-conserving surgery (BCS) with partial breast reconstruction with autologous fat grafting performed during the same operation by the same medical team. The fat graft was injected in the subcutaneous and intraglandular breast tissue around the resected area. We performed an overcorrection, predicting a resorbing of about 30?50% of the volume grafted. All patients received the literature-based recommendations for breast cancer treatment with complementary radiotherapy. The follow-up period after the completion of radiotherapy ranged from 13 to 29 months. The average volume grafted was 121 cc and it was 2.1 times larger than the resected volume. The esthetic scores were considered very good or good in the majority of cases. Mammograms were taken every 6 months after radiotherapy and only one patient had a mammogram classified as BI-RADS 3, suggesting fat necrosis. The remaining patients were classified as BI-RADS 2. Immediate autologous fat grafting is a promising technique for partial breast reconstruction after BCS. It is associated with high patient and physician satisfaction. It is an alternative for reconstruction of small- and medium-sized breasts. This technique has the advantage that enables the reconstruction of defects in areas difficult to repair, particularly in the upper inner quadrants. It also may reduce the need for major glandular or myocutaneous flaps mobilization.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - BOOK REVIEWS
JO  - The Russian Review
JA  - The Russian Review
VL  - 74
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780471560371
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/russ.12028
DO  - doi:10.1111/russ.12028
SP  - 491
EP  - 550
PY  - 2015
AB  - Books reviewed in this issue Literature and Fine Arts Youngblood, Denise. Bondarchuk's War and Peace: Literary Classic to Soviet Cinematic Epic. Losev, Alexei Fyodorovich. The Dialectic of Artistic Form. Kelimbetov, Nemat. Drevnie literaturnye pamiatniki Turkskikh narodov. Andreyev, Alexandre. The Myth of the Masters Revived: The Occult Lives of Nikolai and Elena Roerich. Bulgakov, Mikhail. Don Quixote. Burry, Alexander. Multi-Mediated Dostoevsky: Transposing Novels into Opera, Film, and Drama. Dostoevsky, Fyodor. Crime and Punishment. Gandlevsky, Sergey. Trepanation of the Skull. Móricz, Klára, and Simon Morrison, eds. Funeral Games: In Honor of Arthur Vincent Lourié. White, Frederick H. Degeneration, Decadence and Disease in the Russian Fin de Siècle: Neurasthenia in the Life and Work of Leonid Andreev. Kleespies, Ingrid. A Nation Astray: Nomadism and National Identity in Russian Literature. Zorin, Andrei. By Fables Alone: Literature and State Ideology in Late-Eighteenth?Early-Nineteenth Century Russia. Lossev, Alexeï and Valentina. ?La joie pour l'éternité?: Correspondance du Gulag (1931?1933). Peterson, Nadya L., ed. The Witching Hour and Other Plays by Nina Sadur. Popkin, Cathy, ed. Anton Chekhov's Selected Stories: Texts of the Stories, Comparisons of Translations, Life and Letters, Criticism. Swartz, Anne. Piano Makers in Russia in the Nineteenth Century. Mahoney, Daniel J. The Other Solzhenitsyn: Telling the Truth about a Misunderstood Writer and Thinker. Schuman, Samuel. Nabokov's Shakespeare. Shrayer, Maxim D. Bunin i Nabokov: Istoriia sopernichestva. History Jones, Stephen F., ed. The Making of Modern Georgia, 1918?2012: The First Georgian Republic and Its Successors. Narangoa, Li, and Robert Cribb. Historical Atlas of Northeast Asia 1590?2010: Korea, Manchuria, Mongolia, Eastern Siberia. Birchall, Christopher. Embassy, Emigrants, and Englishmen: The Three Hundred Year History of a Russian Orthodox Church in London. Jones, Ryan Tucker. Empire of Extinction: Russians and the North Pacific's Strange Beasts of the Sea, 1741?1867. Schmidt, Christoph. Pilger, Popen und Propheten: Eine Religionsgeschichte Osteuropas. Sunderland, Willard. The Baron's Cloak: A History of the Russian Empire in War and Revolution. Wolff, Frank. Neue Welten in der Neuen Welt: Die transnationale Geschichte des Allgemeinen Jüdischen Arbeiterbundes 1897?1947. Twiss, Thomas M. Trotsky and the Problem of Soviet Bureaucracy. Campbell, Craig. Agitating Images: Photography against History in Indigenous Siberia. Barenberg, Alan. Gulag Town, Company Town: Forced Labor and Its Legacy in Vorkuta. Goscilo, Helena, and Yana Hashamova, eds. Embracing Arms: Cultural Representation of Slavic and Balkan Women in War. Golubev, Alexey, and Irina Takala. The Search for a Socialist El Dorado: Finnish Immigration to Soviet Karelia from the United States and Canada in the 1930s. Robinson, Paul. Grand Duke Nikolai Nikolaevich: Supreme Commander of the Russian Army. Tikhomirov, Aleksei. Luchshii drug nemetskogo naroda: Kul't Stalina v Vostochnoi Germanii (1945?1961 gg.). Herspring, Dale R. Civil-Military Relations and Shared Responsibility: A Four-Nation Study. Chakars, Melissa. The Socialist Way of Life in Siberia: Transformation in Buryatia. Rittersporn, Gábor T. Anguish, Anger, and Folkways in Soviet Russia. Kuznitz, Cecile Esther. YIVO and the Making of Modern Jewish Culture: Scholarship for the Yiddish Nation. McDaniel, Cadra Peterson. American-Soviet Cultural Diplomacy: The Bolshoi Ballet's American Premiere. Davies, Sarah, and James Harris. Stalin's World: Dictating the Soviet Order. Petrova, N. K., ed. Samyi pamiatnyi den? voiny: Pis'ma-ispovedi. Petrova, N. K., ed. Voina glazami detei: Svidetel'stva ochevidtsev. Petrova, N. K., ed. Znat? i pomnit': Prestupleniia fashizma v gody Velikoi otechestvennoi voiny. Petrova, N. K., ed. Zhenshchiny Velikoi otechestvennoi voiny. Markwick, Roger D., and Euridice Charon Cardona. Soviet Women on the Frontline in the Second World War. McClellan, Dorothy S., ed. Witnessing the Soviet Twilight: Accounts of Americans in the USSR on the Eve of Its Collapse. Smith, Michael G. Rockets and Revolution: A Cultural History of Early Soviet Spaceflight. Smilovitsky, Leonid. Jewish Life in Belarus: The Final Decade of the Stalin Regime (1944?53). Vakhter, Tarmo. Estoniia: Zharkoe leto 91-go: Avgustovskii putch i vozrozhdenie nezavisimosti. Peacock, Margaret. Innocent Weapons: The Soviet and American Politics of Childhood in the Cold War. Michelson, Patrick Lally, and Judith Deutsch Kornblatt, eds. Thinking Orthodox in Modern Russia: Culture, History, Context. Social Sciences, Contemporary Russia, and Other Tsygankov, Andrei P. The Strong State in Russia: Development and Crisis. Makarychev, Andrey. Russia and the EU in a Multipolar World: Discourses, Identities, Norms. Butler, William E. Russian Law and Legal Institutions. Butler, William E., Philip T. Grier, and Vladimir A. Tomsinov, eds and trans. On the Essence of Legal Consciousness by Ivan Aleksandrovich Il'in. Anderson, Richard D. Discourse, Dictators and Democrats: Russia's Place in a Global Process. Gel'man, Vladimir, Otar Marganiya, and Dmitry Travin. Reexamining Economic and Political Reforms in Russia, 1985?2000: Generations, Ideas, and Changes. Rozman, Gilbert. The Sino-Russian Challenge to the World Order: National Identities, Bilateral Relations, and East versus West in the 2010s. Le Huérou, Anne, et al., eds. Chechnya at War and Beyond. Dunlop, John. The Moscow Bombings of September 1999: Examinations of Russian Terrorist Attacks at the Onset of Vladimir Putin's Rule. Mickiewicz, Ellen. No Illusions: The Voices of Russia's Future Leaders.
ER  - 
