
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Satyam, Abhigyan
AU  - Graef, Elizabeth R.
AU  - Lapchak, Peter H.
AU  - Tsokos, Maria G.
AU  - Dalle Lucca, Jurandir J.
AU  - Tsokos, George C.
TI  - Complement and coagulation cascades in trauma
JO  - Acute Medicine & Surgery
JA  - Acute Med Surg
VL  - 6
IS  - 4
SN  - 2052-8817
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ams2.426
DO  - doi:10.1002/ams2.426
SP  - 329
EP  - 335
KW  - Coagulation
KW  - complement
KW  - DAMPs
KW  - PAMPS
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2019
AB  - Trauma remains a major cause of death throughout the world, especially for patients younger than 45 years. Due to rapid advances in clinical management, both in the acute and prehospital settings, trauma patients survive devastating injuries at unprecedented rates. However, these patients can often face life threatening complications that stem from the robust innate immune response induced by severe hemorrhage, leading to further tissue injury rather than repair. The complement and coagulation cascades are key mediators in this disordered reaction, which includes the development of trauma-induced coagulopathy. There is increasing evidence that cross-talk between these two pathways allows rapid amplification of their otherwise targeted responses and contributes to overwhelming and prolonged systemic inflammation. In this article, we summarize the initial steps of innate immune response to trauma and review the complex complement and coagulation cascades, as well as how they interact with each other. Despite progress in understanding these cascades, effective therapeutic targets have yet to be found and further research is needed both to improve survival rates as well as decrease associated morbidity.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chua, Wei Chong
AU  - D'Amours, Scott K.
AU  - Sugrue, Michael
AU  - Caldwell, Erica
AU  - Brown, Katherine
TI  - Performance and consistency of care in admitted trauma patients: our next great opportunity in trauma care?
JO  - ANZ Journal of Surgery
VL  - 79
IS  - 6
SN  - 1445-1433
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.2009.04946.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.2009.04946.x
SP  - 443
EP  - 448
KW  - medical error
KW  - near miss
KW  - performance indicator
KW  - trauma audit patient safety
KW  - trauma care
KW  - trauma registry
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Few studies have prospectively analysed the delivery of care in trauma patients. This study undertook a prospective analysis of performance and consistency of care at a Level 1 trauma centre. A 3-month prospective study was undertaken of all admitted trauma patients at Liverpool Hospital. Data were collected on patient demographics, mechanism of injury, injury severity score (ISS), length of hospital stay, patient outcome and cause of death. Delivery of care was evaluated using 30 performance indicators and assessment of errors. Two hundred and thirty-six consecutive major trauma patients were studied. 73.3% were male, mean age 39 years. The main mechanism of injury was road trauma in 46.2%. Mean ISS was 12 and 64 patients had an ISS ≥16. Error-free care was delivered in 145/236 (61.4%). There were 145 errors in 91 patients (38.6%). Errors in judgement and delays in diagnosis accounted for 56/145 (38.6%) and 48/145 (33.1%), respectively. Errors occurred most commonly in the Emergency Department (ED) (48.3%), and trainees from all specialties were responsible for 67.5% of errors. There were 25 near misses detected. Three patients developed major sequelae or complications from errors. One of 13 deaths was deemed potentially preventable. This study has shown that while 61.4% of admitted trauma patients receive optimal care, errors are frequent, resulting in a spectrum of outcomes from near misses to death. The majority of errors result from the activity of unsupervised trainees and relate to errors in judgement and delays in diagnosis. Clearly, there is room for improvement of the delivery of trauma care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Matlin, Samantha L.
AU  - Champine, Robey B.
AU  - Strambler, Michael J.
AU  - O'Brien, Caitlin
AU  - Hoffman, Erin
AU  - Whitson, Melissa
AU  - Kolka, Laurie
AU  - Tebes, Jacob Kraemer
TI  - A Community's Response to Adverse Childhood Experiences: Building a Resilient, Trauma-Informed Community
JO  - American Journal of Community Psychology
JA  - Am J Community Psychol
VL  - 64
IS  - 3-4
SN  - 0091-0562
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajcp.12386
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajcp.12386
SP  - 451
EP  - 466
KW  - trauma-informed
KW  - resilience
KW  - ACEs
KW  - population health
KW  - social network
KW  - hypothesis generation
PY  - 2019
AB  - Highlights Adverse Childhood Experience (ACEs) may be mitigated by trauma-informed social environments. However, there is little empirical evidence that show how community approaches can address ACEs. A participatory change process was implemented by a community coalition in response to ACEs. Data was used to track implementation, generate hypotheses and guide a community response to ACEs. Results show how one community initiated steps to build a resilient, trauma-informed community.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Guyomarc’h, Pierre
AU  - Campagna-Vaillancourt, Maude
AU  - Kremer, Célia
AU  - Sauvageau, Anny
TI  - Discrimination of Falls and Blows in Blunt Head Trauma: A Multi-Criteria Approach
JO  - Journal of Forensic Sciences
VL  - 55
IS  - 2
SN  - 0022-1198
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1556-4029.2009.01310.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1556-4029.2009.01310.x
SP  - 423
EP  - 427
KW  - forensic science
KW  - blunt head trauma
KW  - falls
KW  - homicide
KW  - skull fractures
KW  - lacerations
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract:? In the discrimination of falls versus blows, the hat brim line (HBL) rule is mentioned in several textbooks as the most useful single criterion. Recent studies, however, have found that the HBL rule is only moderately valid and that its use on its own is not recommended. The purpose of this 6-year retrospective study was to find additional individually useful criteria in the distinction of falls from blows. Overall, the following criteria were found to point toward blows: more than three lacerations, laceration length of 7?cm or more, comminuted or depressed calvarial fractures, lacerations or fractures located above the HBL, left-side lateralization of lacerations or fractures, more than four facial contusions or lacerations, presence of ear lacerations, presence of facial fractures, and presence of postcranial osseous and/or visceral trauma. Based on the most discriminating criteria, a decision tree was constructed to be potentially applicable to future cases.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tebes, Jacob Kraemer
AU  - Champine, Robey B.
AU  - Matlin, Samantha L.
AU  - Strambler, Michael J.
TI  - Population Health and Trauma-Informed Practice: Implications for Programs, Systems, and Policies
JO  - American Journal of Community Psychology
JA  - Am J Community Psychol
VL  - 64
IS  - 3-4
SN  - 0091-0562
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajcp.12382
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajcp.12382
SP  - 494
EP  - 508
KW  - Trauma
KW  - Trauma-informed practice
KW  - Population health
KW  - Prevention
KW  - Resilience
KW  - Blended prevention
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Population studies indicate that trauma exposure is ubiquitous and has a significant impact on health. Trauma-informed practice seeks to address the health consequences of trauma through integrative responses that incorporate an understanding of the effects of trauma, the multiple pathways to recovery, and the potential for re-traumatization. Current trauma-informed practice considers trauma exposure an individual clinical problem rather than a societal problem with population health consequences. Population health refers to the aggregated health status of individuals who share some characteristic, such as trauma exposure, and includes the study of determinants that shape the distribution of health outcomes in specific populations. In this paper, we describe a population health perspective for trauma-informed practice that complements the current clinical perspective, and then discuss implications of that perspective for programs, systems, and policies. We summarize essential concepts about trauma over the life course and describe principles of population health science relevant to trauma-informed practice. We then discuss implications of these principles by identifying four priorities for trauma-informed practice from a population health perspective: (a) adopting trauma-informed policies to prevent trauma exposure and to foster resilience in the aftermath of trauma; (b) infusing trauma-informed practice into everyday activities so it is a routine part of interpersonal transactions; (c) incorporating trauma-informed practices into existing service systems; and (d) adapting existing treatments to incorporate trauma-informed principles for population health impact.
ER  - 

AU  - Flynn, Sandra
AU  - Lucas, Brian
C7  - pp. 48-58
TI  - The Team Approach and Nursing Roles in Orthopaedic and Musculoskeletal Trauma Care
SN  - 9781118438855
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118941263.ch5
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118941263.ch5
SP  - 48-58
KW  - Multi-disciplinary team
KW  - care continuum
KW  - pathway
KW  - nursing
KW  - medical
KW  - allied health care professional
KW  - collaboration
KW  - nurse-led services
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary This chapter provides an insight into the team approach and diverse roles that are apparent within orthopaedic and musculoskeletal trauma care. An overview of establishing a case for nurse-led services within the specialty is also presented. Care across the continuum is provided by a multi-disciplinary team of healthcare professionals who are able to convey benefits such as continuity of care and formulate a comprehensive, holistic view of the patient's needs. In addition the multi-disciplinary team ensures the availability of a range of skills, support and education for the patient, patient's family/carer.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Moyron, Ron B.
AU  - Gonda, Amber
AU  - Selleck, Matthew J.
AU  - Luo-Owen, Xian
AU  - Catalano, Richard D
AU  - O'Callahan, Thomas
AU  - Garberoglio, Carlos
AU  - Turay, David
AU  - Wall, Nathan R.
C7  - 1700061
TI  - Differential protein expression in exosomal samples taken from trauma patients
JO  - PROTEOMICS – Clinical Applications
JA  - Prot. Clin. Appl.
VL  - 11
IS  - 9-10
SN  - 9781118438855
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/prca.201700061
DO  - doi:10.1002/prca.201700061
SP  - 1700061
KW  - Exosome
KW  - Exo-Proteomics
KW  - TBI
KW  - Trauma biomarker discovery
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Traumatic brain injuries (TBI) are among the most misdiagnosed and underreported types of head trauma. The potential long-term impact of undiagnosed or incorrectly identified concussions and other head injuries are potentially devastating, as evidenced by the increasing societal burden exhibited by soldiers returning from combat and athletes in contact sports. Concussions and TBI are notoriously difficult to correctly diagnose and prognosis for these injuries is poorly understood. In order to increase the likelihood of successful diagnosis, treatment, and prediction of outcomes, a definitive differential diagnosis will need to be established. The establishment of a ?trauma?specific profile? or a panel of known trauma markers will significantly aid in this goal. Small membrane vesicles called exosomes have been shown to contain proteins and injury-specific biomarkers. In the future it is possible that they could become an important tool, utilized for their diagnostic and therapeutic potential.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pickens, Isaiah B.
AU  - Howard, Michael L.
AU  - Halladay-Goldman, Jane
AU  - Cruise, Keith R.
AU  - Watson, Kate R.
TI  - Development and Pilot of the National Child Traumatic Stress Network Trauma-Informed Juvenile Court Self-Assessment
JO  - Juvenile and Family Court Journal
JA  - Juv Fam Court J
VL  - 70
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781118438855
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jfcj.12135
DO  - doi:10.1111/jfcj.12135
SP  - 31
EP  - 54
KW  - trauma
KW  - self-assessment
KW  - essential elements
KW  - strategic planning
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Trauma-informed practices in the juvenile justice system are increasingly recognized as effective for promoting public safety through case management, rehabilitation, and treatment that is responsive to a traumatic event exposure and current trauma reactions. As court systems explore integration of trauma-informed practices, tools for identifying best practices and strategically implementing trauma-informed approaches are integral for judges and court administrators aiming to develop trauma-informed courts. The current paper reviews the National Child Traumatic Stress Network's development of the Trauma-Informed Juvenile Court Self-Assessment (TI-JCSA). Implications for self-guided strategies to shift court practices and policies to align with trauma-informed approaches will be discussed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Holers, V. Michael
TI  - The spectrum of complement alternative pathway-mediated diseases
JO  - Immunological Reviews
VL  - 223
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781118438855
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-065X.2008.00641.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-065X.2008.00641.x
SP  - 300
EP  - 316
KW  - complement
KW  - inhibitors
KW  - complement deficiency
KW  - genetics
PY  - 2008
AB  - Summary: The complement system has once again come into prominence in the therapeutic development arena. The recent approval of an inhibitory monoclonal antibody, eculizumab, which is directed against complement component C5 for the disease paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria has provided the initial validation of this system as a therapeutic target. Preclinical studies using animal models and human-derived samples demonstrate that inhibition of complement ameliorates many inflammatory and autoimmune disease manifestations. Major efforts continue to define the most optimal means to block complement activation in a cost-effective manner. Because the system is initiated through three pathways and generates at least six immunoregulatory and pro-inflammatory mediators, there is substantial complexity to this problem. One pathway, designated the alternative pathway, has recently been shown to play a particularly important role in preclinical disease models. Further evidence of the importance of the alternative pathway has been provided by studies of human diseases, where mutations or dysfunctional polymorphisms that promote activation of this pathway are highly associated with the diseases atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, dense deposit disease, and age-related macular degeneration. This article reviews evidence in support of the essential role of the alternative pathway in the generation of tissue injury and the rationale for development of therapies that modulate its activity.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sharwood, Lisa N
AU  - Joseph, Anthony
AU  - Guo, Cici
AU  - Flower, Oliver
AU  - Ball, Jonathon
AU  - Middleton, James W
TI  - Heterogeneous emergency department management of published recommendation defined hypotension in patients with acute traumatic spinal cord injury: A multi-centre overview
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 31
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781118438855
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.13290
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.13290
SP  - 967
EP  - 973
KW  - haemodynamics
KW  - multiple trauma
KW  - practice guideline
KW  - resuscitation
KW  - spinal cord injury
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Objective Evidence-based management for patients with acute traumatic spinal cord injury (TSCI) in the ED has a critical impact on long-term outcomes. Acute hypotension post-injury may compromise spinal cord perfusion and extend neurological damage. Published guidelines recommend mean arterial blood pressure (BP) maintenance between 85 and 90?mmHg for 7 days post-injury; the extent to which this is followed in Australia is unknown. Methods Prospective observational study of patients ≥16?years with TSCI, treated at 48 hospitals across two Australian states. Mean arterial BPs were recorded in the Ambulance, and ED arrival and discharge. Patients? medical records documented treatment provided (intravenous fluids, vasopressors or both) for BP augmentation. Hypotension was defined as mean arterial BP <85?mmHg, per the American Association of Neurological Surgeons guidelines. Results The 208 patients with TSCI in the present study were more likely to receive BP augmentation if they experienced direct transport to a Spinal Cord Service hospital (OR 5.57, 95% CI 2.32?10.11), had a cervical level injury (OR 2.32, 95% CI 1.01?5.5) or were hypotensive on ED arrival (OR 2.42, 95% CI 1.34?4.39). Of the 112 patients who were hypotensive, 71 (63.4%) received treatment for this; however, the majority (76%) remained hypotensive on discharge. Conclusion Hypotensive patients? post-TSCI experienced heterogeneous ED care discordant with published guidelines; varying by hospital type. Specialist care and more severe injury increased likelihood of guideline adherence. Lack of adherence may influence patient outcomes. Level 1 evidence is needed along with consistent guideline implementation and clinician training to likely improve TSCI management and outcomes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kozarcanin, H.
AU  - Lood, C.
AU  - Munthe-Fog, L.
AU  - Sandholm, K.
AU  - Hamad, O. A.
AU  - Bengtsson, A. A.
AU  - Skjoedt, M.-O.
AU  - Huber-Lang, M.
AU  - Garred, P.
AU  - Ekdahl, K. N.
AU  - Nilsson, B.
TI  - The lectin complement pathway serine proteases (MASPs) represent a possible crossroad between the coagulation and complement systems in thromboinflammation
JO  - Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - J Thromb Haemost
VL  - 14
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781118438855
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jth.13208
DO  - doi:10.1111/jth.13208
SP  - 531
EP  - 545
KW  - blood coagulation
KW  - complement pathway
KW  - mannose-binding lectin
KW  - fibrin
KW  - mannose-binding protein-associated serine proteases
KW  - platelet activation
PY  - 2016
AB  - Essentials The lectin pathway's MASP-1/2 activates coagulation factors but the trigger of the activation is unknown. MASP-1/2 activation was assessed by quantifying complexes between MASPs and antithrombin/C1-inhibitor. Activated platelets and fibrin were demonstrated to activate MASP-1 and MASP-2 both in vitro and in vivo. These findings may represent a crossroad between the complement and the coagulation systems. Summary Background The activated forms of the complement lectin pathway (LP) proteases MASP-1 and MASP-2 are able to cleave the coagulation factors prothrombin, fibrinogen, factor XIII and thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor in vitro. In vivo studies also show that MASP-1 is involved in thrombogenesis. Objectives To clarify the not yet identified mechanisms involved in triggering activation of the LP during thrombotic reactions. Methods Novel sandwich-ELISAs for detection of complexes between MASP-1 or MASP-2 and the serpins C1 inhibitor (C1-INH) or antithrombin (AT), were used to specifically detect and quantify the activated forms of MASP-1 and MASP-2. Results Activated platelets were shown by flow cytometry to bind Ficolin-1, -2 and -3 but not MBL, which was associated with activation of MASP-1 and MASP-2. We also demonstrated that fibrin and the plasmin-generated fibrin fragment DD in plasma, bind and activate MASP-1 and MASP-2. As demonstrated by the ELISA and SDS-PAGE/Western blotting, the fibrin-associated activation was reflected in a specific inactivation by AT during clotting without the assistance of heparin. In all other cases the MASPs were, as previously reported, inactivated by C1-INH. In systemic lupus erythematosus patients with thrombotic disease and in polytrauma patients, the levels of activated MASP-1 and MASP-2 in complex with both AT and C1-INH were associated with markers of thrombotic disease and contact/coagulation system activation. Conclusions MASP-1 and MASP-2 are activated during blood clotting. This activation is triggered by activated platelets and by the generation of fibrin during thrombotic reactions in vitro and in vivo, and may represent a novel activation/amplification mechanism in thromboinflammation.
ER  - 

AU  - Reineke, Erica L.
C7  - pp. 1039-1051
TI  - Trauma Overview
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119028994.ch160
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119028994.ch160
SP  - 1039-1051
KW  - animal trauma scoring systems
KW  - blunt trauma
KW  - Modified Glasgow Coma Score
KW  - penetrating trauma
KW  - polytrauma
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Blunt and penetrating trauma is common in small animal patients, accounting for a large number of emergency room visits. Rapid recognition and treatment of abnormalities in tissue perfusion and oxygen delivery is essential to ensure patient survival and decrease the risk for the development of the systemic inflammatory response and MODS. Knowledge of trauma patterns in dogs and cats can help the emergency veterinarian rapidly identify injuries associated with trauma and allow for directed care. Animal trauma scoring systems are useful to help identify more severely injured patients, evaluate hospital outcomes and for patient stratification for clinical trials.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hurtgen, Brady J.
AU  - Ward, Catherine L.
AU  - Leopold Wager, Chrissy M.
AU  - Garg, Koyal
AU  - Goldman, Stephen M.
AU  - Henderson, Beth E. P.
AU  - McKinley, Todd O.
AU  - Greising, Sarah M.
AU  - Wenke, Joseph C.
AU  - Corona, Benjamin T.
C7  - e13362
TI  - Autologous minced muscle grafts improve endogenous fracture healing and muscle strength after musculoskeletal trauma
JO  - Physiological Reports
JA  - Physiol Rep
VL  - 5
IS  - 14
UR  - https://doi.org/10.14814/phy2.13362
DO  - doi:10.14814/phy2.13362
SP  - e13362
KW  - Inflammation
KW  - insulin-like growth factor-1
KW  - orthopedic trauma
KW  - regenerative medicine
KW  - skeletal muscle injury
KW  - volumetric muscle loss
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract The deleterious impact of concomitant muscle injury on fracture healing and limb function is commonly considered part of the natural sequela of orthopedic trauma. Recent reports suggest that heightened inflammation in the surrounding traumatized musculature is a primary determinant of fracture healing. Relatedly, there are emerging potential therapeutic approaches for severe muscle trauma (e.g., volumetric muscle loss [VML] injury), such as autologous minced muscle grafts (1 mm3 pieces of muscle; GRAFT), that can partially prevent chronic functional deficits and appear to have an immunomodulatory effect within VML injured muscle. The primary goal of this study was to determine if repair of VML injury with GRAFT rescues impaired fracture healing and improves the strength of the traumatized muscle in a male Lewis rat model of tibia open fracture. The most salient findings of the study were: (1) tibialis anterior (TA) muscle repair with GRAFT improved endogenous healing of fractured tibia and improved the functional outcome of muscle regeneration; (2) GRAFT repair attenuated the monocyte/macrophage (CD45+CDllb+) and T lymphocyte (CD3+) response to VML injury; (3) TA muscle protein concentrations of MCP1, IL-10, and IGF-1 were augmented in a proregenerative manner by GRAFT repair; (4) VML injury concomitant with osteotomy induced a heightened systemic presence of alarmins (e.g., soluble RAGE) and leukocytes (e.g., monocytes), and depressed IGF-1 concentration, which GRAFT repair ameliorated. Collectively, these data indicate that repair of VML injury with a regenerative therapy can modulate the inflammatory and regenerative phenotype of the treated muscle and in association improve musculoskeletal healing.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Huber-Lang, Markus
AU  - Gebhard, Florian
TI  - The Trauma After Trauma
JO  - German Research
JA  - German Research
VL  - 32
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/germ.201190007
DO  - doi:10.1002/germ.201190007
SP  - 28
EP  - 31
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract High impact injuries not only result in broken bones ? the risk from whole-body inflammation and immune system failure is often even greater. Clinical researchers are seeking better methods of diagnosis and treatment
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Morris, Matthew C.
AU  - Kouros, Chrystyna D.
AU  - Fox, Kathryn R.
AU  - Rao, Uma
AU  - Garber, Judy
TI  - Interactive models of depression vulnerability: The role of childhood trauma, dysfunctional attitudes, and coping
JO  - British Journal of Clinical Psychology
JA  - Br J Clin Psychol
VL  - 53
IS  - 2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bjc.12038
DO  - doi:10.1111/bjc.12038
SP  - 245
EP  - 263
KW  - depression
KW  - childhood trauma
KW  - dysfunctional attitudes
KW  - coping
PY  - 2014
AB  - Objectives This prospective study investigated whether within-individual relations between depression vulnerability factors (childhood trauma, dysfunctional attitudes, maladaptive coping) and depressive symptom trajectories varied as a function of the number of prior major depressive episodes (MDEs) experienced in their lifetime. Design Participants were 68 young adults who varied with regard to their history of depression; 32 were remitted depressed and 36 were never depressed. Methods Depressive symptoms and disorders were assessed using semi-structured psychiatric interviews conducted twice over a 6-month period; interviews yielded weekly ratings of depressive symptoms during the follow-up interval. Childhood trauma, dysfunctional attitudes and coping were assessed with self-report measures. Data analyses were conducted using time-lagged multilevel models. Results Individuals with more previous MDEs who reported greater childhood trauma exposure, more dysfunctional attitudes, or greater use of maladaptive coping strategies experienced more rapid increases in depressive symptoms during the follow-up period. A significant interaction of coping, number of previous MDEs, and time was found indicating that among individuals with less adaptive coping (i.e., lower primary or lower secondary control coping scores), depressive symptoms rating (DSR) increased significantly in relation to number of prior depressive episodes; no change in DSR was observed for never-depressed individuals. Among individuals with higher primary control coping scores, significant increases in DSR scores were observed for individuals with ≥3 prior MDEs only. Conclusions Findings highlight the need for treatment and prevention programmes that target stress reactivity and coping strategies early in the course of depression. Practitioner points Findings highlight the need to conduct multi-dimensional assessments of depression vulnerability that examine the interplay among risk factors over time. Relations between vulnerability factors (childhood trauma, dysfunctional attitudes, maladaptive coping) and depressive symptoms were stronger for individuals with more prior major depressive episodes (MDEs). Interventions for recurrent depression should focus on secondary control coping strategies that emphasize accommodation to stressful life events. Future studies should assess high-risk individuals before their first MDE to determine whether vulnerability factors linked with recurrence are pre-existing and relatively stable, or if they reflect ?scars? from MDEs.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Richmond, Therese S.
AU  - Aitken, Leanne M.
TI  - A model to advance nursing science in trauma practice and injury outcomes research
JO  - Journal of Advanced Nursing
VL  - 67
IS  - 12
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2648.2011.05749.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2648.2011.05749.x
SP  - 2741
EP  - 2753
KW  - conceptual model
KW  - health outcomes
KW  - injury outcomes
KW  - Trauma Outcomes Model
KW  - trauma nursing
PY  - 2011
AB  - richmond t.s. & aitken l.m. (2011)?A model to advance nursing science in trauma practice and injury outcomes research. Journal of Advanced Nursing67(12), 2741?2753. Abstract Aims.? This discussion paper reports development of a model to advance nursing science and practice in trauma care based on an analysis of the literature and expert opinion. Background.? The continuum of clinical care provided to trauma patients extends from the time of injury through to long-term recovery and final outcomes. Nurses bring a unique expertise to meet the complex physical and psychosocial needs of trauma patients and their families to influence outcomes across this entire continuum. Data sources.? Literature was obtained by searching CINAHL, PubMed and OvidMedline databases for 1990?2010. Search terms included trauma, nursing, scope of practice and role, with results restricted to those published in English. Manual searches of relevant journals and websites were undertaken. Discussion.? Core concepts in this trauma outcomes model include environment, person/family, structured care settings, long-term outcomes and nursing interventions. The relationships between each of these concepts extend across all phases of care. Intermediate outcomes are achieved in each phase of care and influence and have congruence with long-term outcomes. Implications for policy and practice.? This model is intended to provide a framework to assist trauma nurses and researchers to consider the injured person in the context of the social, economic, cultural and physical environment from which they come and the long-term goals that each person has during recovery. The entire model requires testing in research and assessment of its practical contribution to practice. Conclusion.? Planning and integrating care across the trauma continuum and recognition of the role of the injured person?s background, family and resources will lead to improved long-term outcomes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ekdahl, Kristina N.
AU  - Teramura, Yuji
AU  - Hamad, Osama A.
AU  - Asif, Sana
AU  - Duehrkop, Claudia
AU  - Fromell, Karin
AU  - Gustafson, Elisabet
AU  - Hong, Jaan
AU  - Kozarcanin, Huda
AU  - Magnusson, Peetra U.
AU  - Huber-Lang, Markus
AU  - Garred, Peter
AU  - Nilsson, Bo
TI  - Dangerous liaisons: complement, coagulation, and kallikrein/kinin cross-talk act as a linchpin in the events leading to thromboinflammation
JO  - Immunological Reviews
JA  - Immunol Rev
VL  - 274
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imr.12471
DO  - doi:10.1111/imr.12471
SP  - 245
EP  - 269
KW  - coagulation
KW  - complement system
KW  - contact activation/kallikrein system
KW  - innate immunity
KW  - platelets
KW  - thromboinflammation
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Innate immunity is fundamental to our defense against microorganisms. Physiologically, the intravascular innate immune system acts as a purging system that identifies and removes foreign substances leading to thromboinflammatory responses, tissue remodeling, and repair. It is also a key contributor to the adverse effects observed in many diseases and therapies involving biomaterials and therapeutic cells/organs. The intravascular innate immune system consists of the cascade systems of the blood (the complement, contact, coagulation, and fibrinolytic systems), the blood cells (polymorphonuclear cells, monocytes, platelets), and the endothelial cell lining of the vessels. Activation of the intravascular innate immune system in vivo leads to thromboinflammation that can be activated by several of the system's pathways and that initiates repair after tissue damage and leads to adverse reactions in several disorders and treatment modalities. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge in the field and discuss the obstacles that exist in order to study the cross-talk between the components of the intravascular innate immune system. These include the use of purified in vitro systems, animal models and various types of anticoagulants. In order to avoid some of these obstacles we have developed specialized human whole blood models that allow investigation of the cross-talk between the various cascade systems and the blood cells. We in particular stress that platelets are involved in these interactions and that the lectin pathway of the complement system is an emerging part of innate immunity that interacts with the contact/coagulation system. Understanding the resulting thromboinflammation will allow development of new therapeutic modalities.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Alawieh, Ali
AU  - Tomlinson, Stephen
TI  - Injury site-specific targeting of complement inhibitors for treating stroke
JO  - Immunological Reviews
JA  - Immunol Rev
VL  - 274
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/imr.12470
DO  - doi:10.1111/imr.12470
SP  - 270
EP  - 280
KW  - complement system
KW  - inflammation
KW  - stroke
KW  - stroke therapeutics
KW  - tissue targeting
PY  - 2016
AB  - Summary Cumulative evidence indicates a role for the complement system in both pathology and recovery after ischemic stroke. Here, we review the current understanding of the dual role of complement in poststroke injury and recovery, and discuss the challenges of anti-complement therapies. Most complement directed therapeutics currently under investigation or development systemically inhibit the complement system, but since complement is important for immune surveillance and is involved in various homeostatic activities, there are potential risks associated with systemic inhibition. Depending on the target within the complement pathway, other concerns are high concentrations of inhibitor required, low efficacy and poor bioavailability. To overcome these limitations, approaches to target complement inhibitors to specific sites have been investigated. Here, we discuss targeting strategies, with a focus on strategies developed in our lab, to specifically localize complement inhibition to sites of tissue injury and complement activation, and in particular to the postischemic brain. We discuss various injury site-specific targeted complement inhibitors as potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of ischemic stroke treatment, as well as their use as investigative tools for probing complement-dependent pathophysiological processes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Recknagel, Stefan
AU  - Bindl, Ronny
AU  - Kurz, Julian
AU  - Wehner, Tim
AU  - Ehrnthaller, Christian
AU  - Knöferl, Markus Werner
AU  - Gebhard, Florian
AU  - Huber-Lang, Markus
AU  - Claes, Lutz
AU  - Ignatius, Anita
TI  - Experimental blunt chest trauma impairs fracture healing in rats
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 29
IS  - 5
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.21299
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.21299
SP  - 734
EP  - 739
KW  - fracture healing
KW  - blunt chest trauma
KW  - systemic inflammation
KW  - IL-6
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract In poly-traumatic patients a blunt chest trauma is an important trigger of the posttraumatic systemic inflammatory response. There is clinical evidence that fracture healing is delayed in such patients, however, experimental data are lacking. Therefore, we investigated the influence of a thoracic trauma on fracture healing in a rat model. Male Wistar rats received either a blunt chest trauma combined with a femur osteotomy or an isolated osteotomy. A more rigid or a more flexible external fixator was used for fracture stabilization to analyze whether the thoracic trauma influences regular healing and mechanically induced delayed bone healing differently. The blunt chest trauma induced a significant increase of IL-6 serum levels after 6 and 24?h, suggesting the induction of a systemic inflammation, whereas the isolated fracture had no effect. Under a more rigid fixation the thoracic trauma considerably impaired fracture healing after 35 days, reflected by a significantly reduced flexural rigidity (three-point-bending test), as well as a significantly diminished callus volume, moment of inertia, and relative bone surface (µCT analysis). In confirming the clinical evidence, this study reports for the first time that a blunt chest trauma considerably impaired bone healing, possibly via the interaction of the induced systemic inflammation with local inflammatory processes. ? 2010 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 29:734?739, 2011
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Alexander, Jessy John
AU  - Anderson, Aileen Judith
AU  - Barnum, Scott Robert
AU  - Stevens, Beth
AU  - Tenner, Andrea Joan
TI  - The complement cascade: Yin–Yang in neuroinflammation – neuro-protection and -degeneration
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
VL  - 107
IS  - 5
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-4159.2008.05668.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1471-4159.2008.05668.x
SP  - 1169
EP  - 1187
KW  - Alzheimer’s
KW  - complement
KW  - glaucoma
KW  - lupus
KW  - multiple sclerosis
KW  - spinal cord injury
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract The complement cascade has long been recognized to play a key role in inflammatory and degenerative diseases. It is a ?double edged? sword as it is necessary to maintain health, yet can have adverse effects when unregulated, often exacerbating disease. The contrasting effects of complement, depending on whether in a setting of health or disease, is the price paid to achieve flexibility in scope and degree of a protective response for the host from infection and injury. Loss or even decreased efficiency of critical regulatory control mechanisms can result in aggravated inflammation and destruction of self-tissue. The role of the complement cascade is poorly understood in the nervous system and neurological disorders. Novel studies have demonstrated that the expression of complement proteins in brain varies in different cell types and the effects of complement activation in various disease settings appear to differ. Understanding the functioning of this cascade is essential, as it has therapeutic implications. In this review, we will attempt to provide insight into how this complex cascade functions and to identify potential strategic targets for therapeutic intervention in chronic diseases as well as acute injury in the CNS.
ER  - 
