
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lingzhi, Zhong
AU  - Meirong, Li
AU  - Xiaobing, Fu
TI  - Biological approaches for hypertrophic scars
JO  - International Wound Journal
JA  - Int Wound J
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 1742-4801
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/iwj.13286
DO  - doi:10.1111/iwj.13286
KW  - wound healing
KW  - hypertrophic scar
KW  - prevention
KW  - biological strategies
KW  - MSC
AB  - Abstract Scar formation is usually the pathological consequence of skin trauma. And hypertrophic scars (HSs) frequently occur in people after being injured deeply. HSs are unusually considered as the result of tissue contraction and excessive extracellular matrix component deposition. Myofibroblasts, as the effector cells, mainly differentiated from fibroblasts, play the crucial role in the pathophysiology of HSs. A number of growth factors, inflammatory cytokines involved in the process of HS occurrence. Currently, with in-depth exploration and clinical research of HSs, various creative and effective treatments budded. In here, we summarize the progress in the molecular mechanism of HSs, and review the available biotherapeutic methods for their pathophysiological characteristics. Additionally, we further prospected that the comprehensive therapy may be more suitable for HS treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Carpenter, D. J.
AU  - Granot, T.
AU  - Matsuoka, N.
AU  - Senda, T.
AU  - Kumar, B. V.
AU  - Thome, J. J. C.
AU  - Gordon, C. L.
AU  - Miron, M.
AU  - Weiner, J.
AU  - Connors, T.
AU  - Lerner, H.
AU  - Friedman, A.
AU  - Kato, T.
AU  - Griesemer, A. D.
AU  - Farber, D. L.
TI  - Human immunology studies using organ donors: Impact of clinical variations on immune parameters in tissues and circulation
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
JA  - Am J Transplant
VL  - 18
IS  - 1
SN  - 1600-6135
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.14434
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.14434
SP  - 74
EP  - 88
KW  - cellular biology
KW  - donors and donation: deceased
KW  - immune regulation
KW  - immunobiology
KW  - lymphocyte biology
KW  - monitoring: immune
KW  - organ procurement
KW  - organ procurement and allocation
KW  - translational research/science
PY  - 2018
AB  - Organ donors are sources of physiologically healthy organs and tissues for life-saving transplantation, and have been recently used for human immunology studies which are typically confined to the sampling of peripheral blood. Donors comprise a diverse population with different causes of death and clinical outcomes during hospitalization, and the effects of such variations on immune parameters in blood and tissues are not known. We present here a coordinate analysis of innate and adaptive immune components in blood, lymphoid (bone marrow, spleen, lymph nodes), and mucosal (lungs, intestines) sites from a population of brain-dead organ donors (2 months-93 years; n = 291) across eight clinical parameters. Overall, the blood of donors exhibited similar monocyte and lymphocyte content and low serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines as healthy controls; however, donor blood had increased neutrophils and serum levels of IL-8, IL-6, and MCP-1 which varied with cause of death. In tissues, the frequency and composition of monocytes, neutrophils, B lymphocytes and T cell subsets in lymphoid or mucosal sites did not vary with clinical state, and was similar in donors independent of the extent of clinical complications. Our results reveal that organ donors maintain tissue homeostasis, and are a valuable resource for fundamental studies in human immunology.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Pick, Marjorie
AU  - Flores-Flores, Cesar
AU  - Grisaru, Dan
AU  - Shochat, Susana
AU  - Deutsch, Varda
AU  - Soreq, Hermona
TI  - Blood-cell-specific acetylcholinesterase splice variations under changing stimuli
JO  - International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience
JA  - International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience
VL  - 22
IS  - 7
SN  - 0736-5748
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2004.07.016
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2004.07.016
SP  - 523
EP  - 531
KW  - Acetylcholine
KW  - Acetylcholinesterase
KW  - Blood cell
KW  - Plasmon resonance
KW  - Flow cytometry
PY  - 2004
AB  - Abstract Developmental and trauma-induced mechanism(s) that modify inflammation and immune responses in blood cells were recently found to be regulated by acetylcholine. Here, we report corresponding blood cell-specific changes in acetylcholinesterase splice variants. Plasmon resonance and flow cytometry using acetylcholinesterase variant-specific antibody probes, revealed a progressive increase in myeloid cell fractions expressing the apoptosis-related acetylcholinesterase-S variant from newborns to adult controls and post-delivery mothers. Hematopoietic cell fractions positive for the myeloproliferative acetylcholinesterase-R variant, were similarly high in post-partum blood, both intracellular and on the cell surface. Moreover, intracellular acetylcholinesterase-S protein amounts as reflected by fluorescence intensity measurements remained unchanged in myeloid cells from post-partum mothers as compared with matched controls. Unlike brain neurons, which over-express intracellular acetylcholinesterase-R under stress, lymphocytes from post-partum mothers presented increased surface acetylcholinesterase-S and pronounced decreases in both the expression and contents of surface acetylcholinesterase-R. Peripheral stimuli-induced modulations in acetylcholine regulation may hence reflect blood cell lineage-dependent acetylcholinesterase splice variations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cerea, Katia
AU  - Romano, Fabrizio
AU  - Bravo, Andrea Ferrari
AU  - Motta, Vittorio
AU  - Uggeri, Fabio
AU  - Brivio, Fernando
AU  - Fumagalli, Luca A.
AU  - Uggeri, Franco
TI  - Phase IB study on prevention of surgery-induced immunodeficiency with preoperative administration of low-dose subcutaneous interleukin-2 in gastric cancer patients
JO  - Journal of Surgical Oncology
JA  - J. Surg. Oncol.
VL  - 78
IS  - 1
SN  - 0022-4790
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jso.1120
DO  - doi:10.1002/jso.1120
SP  - 32
EP  - 37
KW  - interleukin-2
KW  - preoperative administration
KW  - cancer immunodeficiency
KW  - postoperative lymphocytopenia
KW  - gastric cancer
PY  - 2001
AB  - Abstract Background and Objectives: Low count of total and T helper lymphocytes predicts a poor prognosis in cancer patients and surgical trauma can worsen cancer-related immunodeficiency. Aim of this phase IB study is to verify toxicity and biological effects of interleukin-2 (IL-2) at 9 million IU/day subcutaneously (sc.) administered one, two or three preoperative days in patients with gastric cancer undergoing radical surgery. Methods: Absolute value of total and T-helper (CD4) lymphocytes were measured at baseline and at 7th, 14th, and 50th postoperative days in 12 gastric cancer patients, who preoperatively received IL-2 at 9 million IU/day sc. as follows: group A (4 pts) 1-day; group B (4 pts) 2-days; group C (4 pts) 3-days administration. T and total lymphocytes count were recorded and retrospectively analyzed in a historical control-group of 22 consecutive patients, age and stage-matched. Results: Toxicity consisted of fever grade I. In group A (1 day) T helper lymphocytes count decreased at 7th and at 14th postoperative day; in group B (2 days) and group C (3 days) no decrease of neither total nor T helper lymphocyte count occurred postoperatively, whereas in the historical group these parameters decreased significantly postoperatively and recovered only at 50th day. Conclusions: Two- and three-day schedules of sc. IL-2 preoperative administration at 9 million IU/daily prevented postoperative lymphocytopenia, whereas one-day administration did not. Since the IL-2 dose was so tolerable, that it could be given safely as outpatient, based on the previous results on survival observed in colorectal cancer patients with 3-days schedule we suggest that a 3-day schedule of Interleukin-2 as outpatient preoperative treatment seems advisable for further studies in gastric cancer patients. J. Surg. Oncol. 2001;78:32?37. ? 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cossarizza, Andrea
AU  - Chang, Hyun-Dong
AU  - Radbruch, Andreas
AU  - Acs, Andreas
AU  - Adam, Dieter
AU  - Adam-Klages, Sabine
AU  - Agace, William W.
AU  - Aghaeepour, Nima
AU  - Akdis, Mübeccel
AU  - Allez, Matthieu
AU  - Almeida, Larissa Nogueira
AU  - Alvisi, Giorgia
AU  - Anderson, Graham
AU  - Andrä, Immanuel
AU  - Annunziato, Francesco
AU  - Anselmo, Achille
AU  - Bacher, Petra
AU  - Baldari, Cosima T.
AU  - Bari, Sudipto
AU  - Barnaba, Vincenzo
AU  - Barros-Martins, Joana
AU  - Battistini, Luca
AU  - Bauer, Wolfgang
AU  - Baumgart, Sabine
AU  - Baumgarth, Nicole
AU  - Baumjohann, Dirk
AU  - Baying, Bianka
AU  - Bebawy, Mary
AU  - Becher, Burkhard
AU  - Beisker, Wolfgang
AU  - Benes, Vladimir
AU  - Beyaert, Rudi
AU  - Blanco, Alfonso
AU  - Boardman, Dominic A.
AU  - Bogdan, Christian
AU  - Borger, Jessica G.
AU  - Borsellino, Giovanna
AU  - Boulais, Philip E.
AU  - Bradford, Jolene A.
AU  - Brenner, Dirk
AU  - Brinkman, Ryan R.
AU  - Brooks, Anna E. S.
AU  - Busch, Dirk H.
AU  - Büscher, Martin
AU  - Bushnell, Timothy P.
AU  - Calzetti, Federica
AU  - Cameron, Garth
AU  - Cammarata, Ilenia
AU  - Cao, Xuetao
AU  - Cardell, Susanna L.
AU  - Casola, Stefano
AU  - Cassatella, Marco A.
AU  - Cavani, Andrea
AU  - Celada, Antonio
AU  - Chatenoud, Lucienne
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Pratip K.
AU  - Chow, Sue
AU  - Christakou, Eleni
AU  - Čičin-Šain, Luka
AU  - Clerici, Mario
AU  - Colombo, Federico S.
AU  - Cook, Laura
AU  - Cooke, Anne
AU  - Cooper, Andrea M.
AU  - Corbett, Alexandra J.
AU  - Cosma, Antonio
AU  - Cosmi, Lorenzo
AU  - Coulie, Pierre G.
AU  - Cumano, Ana
AU  - Cvetkovic, Ljiljana
AU  - Dang, Van Duc
AU  - Dang-Heine, Chantip
AU  - Davey, Martin S.
AU  - Davies, Derek
AU  - De Biasi, Sara
AU  - Del Zotto, Genny
AU  - Dela Cruz, Gelo Victoriano
AU  - Delacher, Michael
AU  - Della Bella, Silvia
AU  - Dellabona, Paolo
AU  - Deniz, Günnur
AU  - Dessing, Mark
AU  - Di Santo, James P.
AU  - Diefenbach, Andreas
AU  - Dieli, Francesco
AU  - Dolf, Andreas
AU  - Dörner, Thomas
AU  - Dress, Regine J.
AU  - Dudziak, Diana
AU  - Dustin, Michael
AU  - Dutertre, Charles-Antoine
AU  - Ebner, Friederike
AU  - Eckle, Sidonia B. G.
AU  - Edinger, Matthias
AU  - Eede, Pascale
AU  - Ehrhardt, Götz R.A.
AU  - Eich, Marcus
AU  - Engel, Pablo
AU  - Engelhardt, Britta
AU  - Erdei, Anna
AU  - Esser, Charlotte
AU  - Everts, Bart
AU  - Evrard, Maximilien
AU  - Falk, Christine S.
AU  - Fehniger, Todd A.
AU  - Felipo-Benavent, Mar
AU  - Ferry, Helen
AU  - Feuerer, Markus
AU  - Filby, Andrew
AU  - Filkor, Kata
AU  - Fillatreau, Simon
AU  - Follo, Marie
AU  - Förster, Irmgard
AU  - Foster, John
AU  - Foulds, Gemma A.
AU  - Frehse, Britta
AU  - Frenette, Paul S.
AU  - Frischbutter, Stefan
AU  - Fritzsche, Wolfgang
AU  - Galbraith, David W.
AU  - Gangaev, Anastasia
AU  - Garbi, Natalio
AU  - Gaudilliere, Brice
AU  - Gazzinelli, Ricardo T.
AU  - Geginat, Jens
AU  - Gerner, Wilhelm
AU  - Gherardin, Nicholas A.
AU  - Ghoreschi, Kamran
AU  - Gibellini, Lara
AU  - Ginhoux, Florent
AU  - Goda, Keisuke
AU  - Godfrey, Dale I.
AU  - Goettlinger, Christoph
AU  - González-Navajas, Jose M.
AU  - Goodyear, Carl S.
AU  - Gori, Andrea
AU  - Grogan, Jane L.
AU  - Grummitt, Daryl
AU  - Grützkau, Andreas
AU  - Haftmann, Claudia
AU  - Hahn, Jonas
AU  - Hammad, Hamida
AU  - Hämmerling, Günter
AU  - Hansmann, Leo
AU  - Hansson, Goran
AU  - Harpur, Christopher M.
AU  - Hartmann, Susanne
AU  - Hauser, Andrea
AU  - Hauser, Anja E.
AU  - Haviland, David L.
AU  - Hedley, David
AU  - Hernández, Daniela C.
AU  - Herrera, Guadalupe
AU  - Herrmann, Martin
AU  - Hess, Christoph
AU  - Höfer, Thomas
AU  - Hoffmann, Petra
AU  - Hogquist, Kristin
AU  - Holland, Tristan
AU  - Höllt, Thomas
AU  - Holmdahl, Rikard
AU  - Hombrink, Pleun
AU  - Houston, Jessica P.
AU  - Hoyer, Bimba F.
AU  - Huang, Bo
AU  - Huang, Fang-Ping
AU  - Huber, Johanna E.
AU  - Huehn, Jochen
AU  - Hundemer, Michael
AU  - Hunter, Christopher A.
AU  - Hwang, William Y. K.
AU  - Iannone, Anna
AU  - Ingelfinger, Florian
AU  - Ivison, Sabine M
AU  - Jäck, Hans-Martin
AU  - Jani, Peter K.
AU  - Jávega, Beatriz
AU  - Jonjic, Stipan
AU  - Kaiser, Toralf
AU  - Kalina, Tomas
AU  - Kamradt, Thomas
AU  - Kaufmann, Stefan H. E.
AU  - Keller, Baerbel
AU  - Ketelaars, Steven L. C.
AU  - Khalilnezhad, Ahad
AU  - Khan, Srijit
AU  - Kisielow, Jan
AU  - Klenerman, Paul
AU  - Knopf, Jasmin
AU  - Koay, Hui-Fern
AU  - Kobow, Katja
AU  - Kolls, Jay K.
AU  - Kong, Wan Ting
AU  - Kopf, Manfred
AU  - Korn, Thomas
AU  - Kriegsmann, Katharina
AU  - Kristyanto, Hendy
AU  - Kroneis, Thomas
AU  - Krueger, Andreas
AU  - Kühne, Jenny
AU  - Kukat, Christian
AU  - Kunkel, Désirée
AU  - Kunze-Schumacher, Heike
AU  - Kurosaki, Tomohiro
AU  - Kurts, Christian
AU  - Kvistborg, Pia
AU  - Kwok, Immanuel
AU  - Landry, Jonathan
AU  - Lantz, Olivier
AU  - Lanuti, Paola
AU  - LaRosa, Francesca
AU  - Lehuen, Agnès
AU  - LeibundGut-Landmann, Salomé
AU  - Leipold, Michael D.
AU  - Leung, Leslie Y.T.
AU  - Levings, Megan K.
AU  - Lino, Andreia C.
AU  - Liotta, Francesco
AU  - Litwin, Virginia
AU  - Liu, Yanling
AU  - Ljunggren, Hans-Gustaf
AU  - Lohoff, Michael
AU  - Lombardi, Giovanna
AU  - Lopez, Lilly
AU  - López-Botet, Miguel
AU  - Lovett-Racke, Amy E.
AU  - Lubberts, Erik
AU  - Luche, Herve
AU  - Ludewig, Burkhard
AU  - Lugli, Enrico
AU  - Lunemann, Sebastian
AU  - Maecker, Holden T.
AU  - Maggi, Laura
AU  - Maguire, Orla
AU  - Mair, Florian
AU  - Mair, Kerstin H.
AU  - Mantovani, Alberto
AU  - Manz, Rudolf A.
AU  - Marshall, Aaron J.
AU  - Martínez-Romero, Alicia
AU  - Martrus, Glòria
AU  - Marventano, Ivana
AU  - Maslinski, Wlodzimierz
AU  - Matarese, Giuseppe
AU  - Mattioli, Anna Vittoria
AU  - Maueröder, Christian
AU  - Mazzoni, Alessio
AU  - McCluskey, James
AU  - McGrath, Mairi
AU  - McGuire, Helen M.
AU  - McInnes, Iain B.
AU  - Mei, Henrik E.
AU  - Melchers, Fritz
AU  - Melzer, Susanne
AU  - Mielenz, Dirk
AU  - Miller, Stephen D.
AU  - Mills, Kingston H.G.
AU  - Minderman, Hans
AU  - Mjösberg, Jenny
AU  - Moore, Jonni
AU  - Moran, Barry
AU  - Moretta, Lorenzo
AU  - Mosmann, Tim R.
AU  - Müller, Susann
AU  - Multhoff, Gabriele
AU  - Muñoz, Luis Enrique
AU  - Münz, Christian
AU  - Nakayama, Toshinori
AU  - Nasi, Milena
AU  - Neumann, Katrin
AU  - Ng, Lai Guan
AU  - Niedobitek, Antonia
AU  - Nourshargh, Sussan
AU  - Núñez, Gabriel
AU  - O'Connor, José-Enrique
AU  - Ochel, Aaron
AU  - Oja, Anna
AU  - Ordonez, Diana
AU  - Orfao, Alberto
AU  - Orlowski-Oliver, Eva
AU  - Ouyang, Wenjun
AU  - Oxenius, Annette
AU  - Palankar, Raghavendra
AU  - Panse, Isabel
AU  - Pattanapanyasat, Kovit
AU  - Paulsen, Malte
AU  - Pavlinic, Dinko
AU  - Penter, Livius
AU  - Peterson, Pärt
AU  - Peth, Christian
AU  - Petriz, Jordi
AU  - Piancone, Federica
AU  - Pickl, Winfried F.
AU  - Piconese, Silvia
AU  - Pinti, Marcello
AU  - Pockley, A. Graham
AU  - Podolska, Malgorzata Justyna
AU  - Poon, Zhiyong
AU  - Pracht, Katharina
AU  - Prinz, Immo
AU  - Pucillo, Carlo E. M.
AU  - Quataert, Sally A.
AU  - Quatrini, Linda
AU  - Quinn, Kylie M.
AU  - Radbruch, Helena
AU  - Radstake, Tim R. D. J.
AU  - Rahmig, Susann
AU  - Rahn, Hans-Peter
AU  - Rajwa, Bartek
AU  - Ravichandran, Gevitha
AU  - Raz, Yotam
AU  - Rebhahn, Jonathan A.
AU  - Recktenwald, Diether
AU  - Reimer, Dorothea
AU  - Reis e Sousa, Caetano
AU  - Remmerswaal, Ester B.M.
AU  - Richter, Lisa
AU  - Rico, Laura G.
AU  - Riddell, Andy
AU  - Rieger, Aja M.
AU  - Robinson, J. Paul
AU  - Romagnani, Chiara
AU  - Rubartelli, Anna
AU  - Ruland, Jürgen
AU  - Saalmüller, Armin
AU  - Saeys, Yvan
AU  - Saito, Takashi
AU  - Sakaguchi, Shimon
AU  - Sala-de-Oyanguren, Francisco
AU  - Samstag, Yvonne
AU  - Sanderson, Sharon
AU  - Sandrock, Inga
AU  - Santoni, Angela
AU  - Sanz, Ramon Bellmàs
AU  - Saresella, Marina
AU  - Sautes-Fridman, Catherine
AU  - Sawitzki, Birgit
AU  - Schadt, Linda
AU  - Scheffold, Alexander
AU  - Scherer, Hans U.
AU  - Schiemann, Matthias
AU  - Schildberg, Frank A.
AU  - Schimisky, Esther
AU  - Schlitzer, Andreas
AU  - Schlosser, Josephine
AU  - Schmid, Stephan
AU  - Schmitt, Steffen
AU  - Schober, Kilian
AU  - Schraivogel, Daniel
AU  - Schuh, Wolfgang
AU  - Schüler, Thomas
AU  - Schulte, Reiner
AU  - Schulz, Axel Ronald
AU  - Schulz, Sebastian R.
AU  - Scottá, Cristiano
AU  - Scott-Algara, Daniel
AU  - Sester, David P.
AU  - Shankey, T. Vincent
AU  - Silva-Santos, Bruno
AU  - Simon, Anna Katharina
AU  - Sitnik, Katarzyna M.
AU  - Sozzani, Silvano
AU  - Speiser, Daniel E.
AU  - Spidlen, Josef
AU  - Stahlberg, Anders
AU  - Stall, Alan M.
AU  - Stanley, Natalie
AU  - Stark, Regina
AU  - Stehle, Christina
AU  - Steinmetz, Tobit
AU  - Stockinger, Hannes
AU  - Takahama, Yousuke
AU  - Takeda, Kiyoshi
AU  - Tan, Leonard
AU  - Tárnok, Attila
AU  - Tiegs, Gisa
AU  - Toldi, Gergely
AU  - Tornack, Julia
AU  - Traggiai, Elisabetta
AU  - Trebak, Mohamed
AU  - Tree, Timothy I.M.
AU  - Trotter, Joe
AU  - Trowsdale, John
AU  - Tsoumakidou, Maria
AU  - Ulrich, Henning
AU  - Urbanczyk, Sophia
AU  - van de Veen, Willem
AU  - van den Broek, Maries
AU  - van der Pol, Edwin
AU  - Van Gassen, Sofie
AU  - Van Isterdael, Gert
AU  - van Lier, René A.W.
AU  - Veldhoen, Marc
AU  - Vento-Asturias, Salvador
AU  - Vieira, Paulo
AU  - Voehringer, David
AU  - Volk, Hans-Dieter
AU  - von Borstel, Anouk
AU  - von Volkmann, Konrad
AU  - Waisman, Ari
AU  - Walker, Rachael V.
AU  - Wallace, Paul K.
AU  - Wang, Sa A.
AU  - Wang, Xin M.
AU  - Ward, Michael D.
AU  - Ward-Hartstonge, Kirsten A
AU  - Warnatz, Klaus
AU  - Warnes, Gary
AU  - Warth, Sarah
AU  - Waskow, Claudia
AU  - Watson, James V.
AU  - Watzl, Carsten
AU  - Wegener, Leonie
AU  - Weisenburger, Thomas
AU  - Wiedemann, Annika
AU  - Wienands, Jürgen
AU  - Wilharm, Anneke
AU  - Wilkinson, Robert John
AU  - Willimsky, Gerald
AU  - Wing, James B.
AU  - Winkelmann, Rieke
AU  - Winkler, Thomas H.
AU  - Wirz, Oliver F.
AU  - Wong, Alicia
AU  - Wurst, Peter
AU  - Yang, Jennie H. M.
AU  - Yang, Juhao
AU  - Yazdanbakhsh, Maria
AU  - Yu, Liping
AU  - Yue, Alice
AU  - Zhang, Hanlin
AU  - Zhao, Yi
AU  - Ziegler, Susanne Maria
AU  - Zielinski, Christina
AU  - Zimmermann, Jakob
AU  - Zychlinsky, Arturo
TI  - Guidelines for the use of flow cytometry and cell sorting in immunological studies (second edition)
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 49
IS  - 10
SN  - 0014-2980
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.201970107
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.201970107
SP  - 1457
EP  - 1973
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract These guidelines are a consensus work of a considerable number of members of the immunology and flow cytometry community. They provide the theory and key practical aspects of flow cytometry enabling immunologists to avoid the common errors that often undermine immunological data. Notably, there are comprehensive sections of all major immune cell types with helpful Tables detailing phenotypes in murine and human cells. The latest flow cytometry techniques and applications are also described, featuring examples of the data that can be generated and, importantly, how the data can be analysed. Furthermore, there are sections detailing tips, tricks and pitfalls to avoid, all written and peer-reviewed by leading experts in the field, making this an essential research companion.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Saey, V.
AU  - Martlé, V.
AU  - Van Ham, L.
AU  - Chiers, Koen
TI  - Neuritis of the cauda equina in a dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 51
IS  - 10
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2010.00976.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2010.00976.x
SP  - 549
EP  - 552
PY  - 2010
AB  - This study presents the first case report of neuritis of the cauda equina in a dog, including characterisation of the inflammatory infiltrate. The dog in question, a 6-year-old Welsh springer spaniel, was presented with flaccid tail and faecal and urinary incontinence. The histological lesions included severe mononuclear cell infiltration of the nerve roots of the cauda equina and of the lumbar nerve roots. The infiltrate was composed of large numbers of T-lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes and small numbers of macrophages. Polymerase chain reactions of brain and spinal tissues were positive for Neospora caninum.
ER  - 

AU  - Latifi, Rifat
AU  - Con, Jorge
C7  - pp. 177-188
TI  - Nutrition Support in Critically Ill Patients
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119317913.ch19
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119317913.ch19
SP  - 177-188
KW  - albumin
KW  - biologic factor
KW  - clinical factor
KW  - critically ill patients
KW  - nutrition support
KW  - surgical interventions
KW  - total parenteral nutrition
KW  - transferrin
PY  - 2010
AB  - Summary This is a unique question-and-answer chapter for surgical residents and trainees, concentrating on the nutrition support in critically ill patients. The negative acute phase proteins are albumin and transferrin. Their serum concentrations fall immediately after the injury, in proportion to its severity. They are used to monitor the nutritional status of acutely ill patients. Areas of intense clinical investigation in which total parenteral nutrition (TPN) may eventually be shown to be of great value are cancer patients in general, sepsis and trauma, and general perioperative support to prevent or correct malnutrition. Although protein restriction was historically used to reduce risk from hepatic encephalopathy, such a strategy may worsen nutrition status, decrease lean muscle mass, and ironically lead to less ammonia removal. Many interacting biologic and clinical factors are responsible for the development of malnutrition in critically ill and injured hospitalized patients and also the hypercatabolic states associated with trauma, sepsis, cancer, and surgical interventions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Simonazzi, B.
AU  - Castania, M.
AU  - Bosco, V.
AU  - Giudice, C.
AU  - Rondena, M.
TI  - A case of multiple unilateral corneal epithelial inclusion cysts in a dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 50
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00743.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00743.x
SP  - 373
EP  - 376
PY  - 2009
AB  - A three-year-old neutered female Labrador cross was presented for investigation of two corneal epithelial inclusion cysts affecting the left eye. The aetiopathogenesis of the cyst formation was suspected to be traumatic. The cysts were removed successfully by superficial keratectomy, followed by a third eyelid flap. Histologically, both lesions were represented by cystic formations lined with multi-layered squamous epithelium, consistent with stromal inclusion of surface corneal epithelium. Complete recovery was achieved, and there was no recurrence at six month follow-up.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hermanns, Susanne
AU  - Wunderlich, Gilbert
AU  - Rosenbaum, Claudia
AU  - Hanemann, C. Oliver
AU  - Müller, Hans Werner
AU  - Stichel, Christine C.
TI  - Lack of immune responses to immediate or delayed implanted allogeneic and xenogeneic Schwann cell suspensions
JO  - Glia
JA  - Glia
VL  - 21
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1098-1136(199711)21:3<299::AID-GLIA5>3.0.CO;2-0
DO  - doi:10.1002/(SICI)1098-1136(199711)21:3<299::AID-GLIA5>3.0.CO;2-0
SP  - 299
EP  - 314
KW  - transplantation
KW  - glia
KW  - immunogenetic disparity
KW  - graft rejection
KW  - T-lymphocytes
KW  - major histocompatibility complex
PY  - 1997
AB  - Abstract Previous studies have shown that Schwann cell implantation offers a potential therapeutic approach to a variety of neurodegenerative disorders and traumatic injuries. In a clinically relevant paradigm, however, the implantation of autologous Schwann cells is problematic and the use of heterogenetic Schwann cells will be required. In the present study we addressed this important issue and analysed the immunogenicity and survival of allogeneic and xenogeneic Schwann cell suspension grafts in a prelesioned CNS fiber tract, the transected postcommissural fornix of the adult Wistar rat. Cultured Schwann cells from Wistar rat or human peripheral nerve were injected either immediately or after a delay into the transection site and the spatio-temporal pattern of leukocyte infiltration and of major histocompatibility antigen expression was characterized and semiquantified with immunocytochemical methods. Our main findings are that (1) invasive cerebral lesions induce the expression of MHC class I and II antigens, but only sparse infiltration of T-lymphocytes, (2) both allogeneic and xenogeneic discordant Schwann cell suspension grafts, from either neonatal or adult peripheral nerve, survive without any overt signs of rejection for up to 10 weeks after implantation; and (3) delayed implantation procedures have no effect on immune responses to allogeneic Schwann cell grafts. These results demonstrate that there is no marked ongoing immune reactions to heterogenetic Schwann cell suspension grafts and that long-term survival of cross-species Schwann cell grafts can be achieved in the absence of any immunsuppressive treatment. Thus the conditions for functional transplantation of Schwann cells across immunological barriers seem to be favourable and will have implications for future cross-species studies, and possibly also for clinical application. GLIA 21:299?314, 1997. ? 1997 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Berber, Onur
AU  - Pearse, Eyiyemi O.
AU  - Tennent, Thomas D.
TI  - Metallosis and cutaneous metal pigmentation in a reverse shoulder replacement
JO  - Shoulder & Elbow
JA  - Shoulder & Elbow
VL  - 5
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/sae.12012
DO  - doi:10.1111/sae.12012
SP  - 195
EP  - 197
KW  - Metallosis
KW  - shoulder replacement
KW  - cutaneous pigmentation
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Metallosis with an associated cutaneous pigmentation as a result of metal dispersion has not been reported in the literature. A case is described in a patient who developed an extensive metallosis that presented with cutaneous pigmentation 8?years after a reverse shoulder replacement.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Taintor, J.
AU  - Schleis, S.
TI  - Equine lymphoma
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 23
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3292.2010.00200.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3292.2010.00200.x
SP  - 205
EP  - 213
KW  - horse
KW  - lymphoma
KW  - lymphosarcoma
KW  - leukaemia
KW  - chemotherapeutic
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary Lymphoma, although rare, is the most common haematopoietic neoplasm encountered in horses and can occur at any age, with horses 4?10 years more commonly affected. Lymphoma can be classified into multicentric, alimentary, mediastinal, cutaneous and solitary. Clinical signs are typically nonspecific until the disease has progressed to end-stage at which time clinical signs reflect function of organ(s) involved. Horses with the cutaneous form of lymphoma typically present with multifocal skin lesions and no other clinical signs. Like the nonspecific clinical signs of lymphoma, results of complete blood count (CBC) and serum biochemistries are not often helpful with diagnosis, but lymphoma should be considered if anaemia, hyperfibrinogenaemia, hyperproteinaemia and hypoalbuminaemia are observed without a clear indication of infectious disease. Identification of neoplastic lymphocytes during cytological examination of a body cavity effusion can confirm the presence of lymphoma. Typically, ante mortem confirmation of lymphoma is made through histopathological examination of a biopsy or cytological examination of a fine needle aspirate of a suspected lesion. Observation of compression or destruction of normal tissue architecture by invading neoplastic cells during histological examination is indicative of lymphoma. Additional diagnostics that may improve our knowledge of equine lymphoma include detection of hormone receptors, immunophenotyping, and immunohistochemical analysis for tumour proliferation rates. Prognosis of horses with lymphoma depends on the form of lymphoma and stage at which the horse is presented but death is the common outcome of this disease. Current treatment options are surgical excision, radiation or administration of chemotherapeutic drugs. Treatment of horses with lymphoma can result in palliation and occasional resolution of this disease. Equine oncology is in its infancy, but through further documentation of horses with lymphoma and their response to therapy, a clearer understanding of the disease process and effective treatment of this neoplasm can be developed.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yopp, Adam C
AU  - Ledgerwood, Levi G
AU  - Ochando, Jordi C
AU  - Bromberg, Jonathan S
TI  - Sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators: a new class of immunosuppressants
JO  - Clinical Transplantation
VL  - 20
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-0012.2006.00570.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1399-0012.2006.00570.x
SP  - 788
EP  - 795
KW  - immunosuppression transplantation
KW  - T lymphocyteo
KW  - FTY720
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract:? In this review, we summarize how FTY720 came from the lab bench to the bedside by examining its structural similarities to natural occuring sphingosine analogues, the mechanism of action, and clinical applicability to not only transplantation but also autoimmune, oncological, and neurobiological fields. FTY720, a sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) analogue, promotes the survival of human and animal allografts by sequestering T lymphocytes within peripheral lymphoid tissue. The mechanism of sequestration is three-fold:(1) T lymphocytes are driven into peripheral lymph nodes in a chemokine dependent manner by FTY720;(2) FTY720 downregulates sphingosine 1-phosphate receptors (S1PRs) on the T lymphocyte surface, rendering it unable to migrate along a S1P gradient; and (3) FTY720 closes stromal gates on the abluminal side of the lymphatic endothelium. Future areas of investigation include developing S1P analogues that have specific agonist binding to S1PRs avoiding side effects seen in non-specific binding.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - HENG, MADALENE C.Y.
AU  - KLOSS, S.G.
AU  - KUEHN, C.S.
AU  - CHASE, D.G.
TI  - The sequence of events in psoriatic plaque formation after tape-stripping
JO  - British Journal of Dermatology
VL  - 112
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2133.1985.tb15259.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2133.1985.tb15259.x
SP  - 517
EP  - 532
PY  - 1985
AB  - SUMMARY The sequence of events leading to the formation of a psoriatic plaque induced by tape-stripping was studied using light and electron microscopy. Among the earliest changes noted were increased mobility of the epidermal Langerhans cells across the basement membrane, evidence of Langerhans cell-lymphocyte interaction, and increased Langerhans cell ?activity? or ?cytotoxicity?. These changes were seen as early as 2 min after stripping and remained until the development of clinical psoriasis. Collections of epidermal lymphocytes showing the features of blastoid transformation while in contact with processes from activated Langerhans cells, suggest the involvement of la antigens in this process. We postulate that these findings are a manifestation of an increased immune responsiveness to trauma, controlled by genes located at the HLA-D locus of the major histocompatibility complex, and mediated by enhanced cellular interactions. The appearance of basal keratinocyte herniations (BKH) at 1?3 weeks after stripping, coincided with the development of clinical psoriasis. Neutrophils made their appearance at the same time as, or slightly before, the appearance of BKH, and are suspected to play a role in the development of these structures. We believe that BKH maintain epidermal proliferation through the persistence of the epidermal-stromal interaction.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - LUCKE, VANDA M.
AU  - DAVIES, J. D.
TI  - Progressive lymphocytic cholangitis in the cat
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 25
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.1984.tb03388.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.1984.tb03388.x
SP  - 249
EP  - 260
PY  - 1984
AB  - ABSTRACT A distinct type of liver disease is described in 21 cats. It is characterized morphologically by monolobular fibrosis, lymphocytic infiltrates which surround and permeate bile ducts and proliferation of bile ductules of varying intensity. The most common clinical signs are ascites, jaundice and hypergammaglobulinaemia. The condition appears to progress through an active stage of intense lymphocytic infiltration and proliferation of bile ductules to a stage of progressive monolobular fibrosis which results in distortion of liver architecture. The rate of progression is very variable. The condition differs from that of ascending or suppurative cholangitis described in the cat and bears only superficial resemblances to various forms of cholangitis in man and other species. At present the aetiology is unknown but it is suggested that genetic and immunological factors may predispose certain animals to produce hepatic lesions after exposure to a variety of environmental factors.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Villacampa, Nàdia
AU  - Almolda, Beatriz
AU  - Vilella, Antonietta
AU  - Campbell, Iain L.
AU  - González, Berta
AU  - Castellano, Bernardo
TI  - Astrocyte-targeted production of IL-10 induces changes in microglial reactivity and reduces motor neuron death after facial nerve axotomy
JO  - Glia
JA  - Glia
VL  - 63
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/glia.22807
DO  - doi:10.1002/glia.22807
SP  - 1166
EP  - 1184
KW  - microglia
KW  - transgenic animal
KW  - neuronal survival
KW  - lymphocytes
KW  - nerve injury
KW  - neurodegeneration
KW  - cytokines
KW  - IL-10R
KW  - CD18
KW  - CD16/32
KW  - MHC-II
KW  - CD39
KW  - arginase-1
KW  - Ym-1
KW  - CD150
PY  - 2015
AB  - Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a cytokine that plays a crucial role in regulating the inflammatory response and immune reactions. In the central nervous system (CNS), IL-10 is mainly produced by astrocytes and microglia and it is upregulated after various insults, such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, middle cerebral artery occlusion, excitotoxicity and traumatic brain injury. To better understand the effects of IL-10 in the normal and injured CNS, we generated transgenic mice (termed GFAP-IL-10Tg) that expressed the murine IL-10 gene under the transcriptional control of the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter. Previous studies demonstrated marked changes in the microglial phenotype in these mice under basal conditions. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of local astrocyte-targeted IL-10 production on glial activation, neuronal degeneration and leukocyte recruitment after axotomy. GFAP-IL-10Tg mice had marked changes in the phenotype of activated microglial cells, as well as in the number of microglial clusters and in microglial cell density. These microglial changes are accompanied by a twofold increase in lymphocyte infiltration in GFAP-IL-10Tg mice and around twofold decrease in neuronal cell death at 21 dpi. Altogether, our findings suggested that astrocyte-targeted production of IL-10 impacted the microglial response and lymphocyte recruitment and culminated in a beneficial effect on neuronal survival. GLIA 2015;63:1166?1184
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Flohé, Stefanie B.
AU  - Agrawal, Hemant
AU  - Schmitz, Daniel
AU  - Gertz, Michaela
AU  - Flohé, Sascha
AU  - Schade, F. Ulrich
TI  - Dendritic cells during polymicrobial sepsis rapidly mature but fail to initiate a protective Th1-type immune response
JO  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
JA  - Journal of Leukocyte Biology
VL  - 79
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1189/jlb.0705413
DO  - doi:10.1189/jlb.0705413
SP  - 473
EP  - 481
KW  - bacterial infections
KW  - inflammation
KW  - cytokines
KW  - costimulation
PY  - 2006
AB  - Polymicrobial sepsis is associated with immunosuppression caused by the predominance of anti-inflammatory mediators and profound loss of lymphocytes through apoptosis. Dendritic cells (DC) are potent antigen-presenting cells and play a key role in T cell activation. We tested the hypothesis that DC are involved in sepsis-mediated immunosuppression in a mouse cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model, which resembles human polymicrobial sepsis. At different time-points after CLP, DC from the spleen and peripheral lymph nodes were characterized in terms of expression of costimulatory molecules, cytokine synthesis, and subset composition. Splenic DC strongly up-regulated CD86 and CD40 but not CD80 as soon as 8 h after CLP. In contrast, lymph node DC equally increased the expression of CD86, CD40, and CD80. However, this process of maturation occurred later in the lymph nodes than in the spleen. Splenic DC from septic mice were unable to secrete interleukin (IL)-12, even upon stimulation with CpG or lipopolysaccharide + CD40 ligand, but released high levels of IL-10 in comparison to DC from control mice. Neutralization of endogenous IL-10 could not restore IL-12 secretion by DC of septic mice. In addition, the splenic CD4+CD8? and CD4?CD8+ subpopulations were lost during sepsis, and the remaining DC showed a reduced capacity for allogeneic T cell activation associated with decreased IL-2 synthesis. Thus, during sepsis, splenic DC acquire a state of aberrant responsiveness to bacterial stimuli, and two DC subtypes are selectively lost. These changes in DC behavior might contribute to impaired host response against bacteria during sepsis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Oliveira, A. M.
AU  - Obwolo, M. J.
AU  -             Van Den Broek, A. H. M.
AU  - Thoday, K. L.
TI  - Focal metatarsal sinus tracts in a Weimaraner successfully managed with ciclosporin
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 48
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2006.00147.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2006.00147.x
SP  - 161
EP  - 164
PY  - 2007
AB  - Focal metatarsal sinus tracts (?fistulation?) are, to the authors knowledge, reported for the first time in a Weimaraner. The six-year-old, entire male had a five-month history of two symmetrical, well-demarcated sinuses on the plantar aspect of each metatarsus. The area surrounding each pair of sinuses was slightly fluctuant and a serosanguineous discharge could be expressed. Cytological examination of the discharge was characteristic of pyogranulomatous inflammation. Bacterial culture showed the material to be sterile. Examination of a skin biopsy revealed a severe inflammatory reaction involving the dermal collagen, with an infiltrate of neutrophils, macrophages, lymphocytes, plasma cells and multi-nucleated giant cells, with some micro-pustule formation. Treatment with ciclosporin induced total remission. Reduction of the dose of ciclosporin resulted in recurrence of the physical signs with further remission on re-introduction of the original dosage. This is the first report of the use of ciclosporin to control this condition.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Scavella, Arnette
AU  - Leiva, Lily
AU  - Monjure, Hanh
AU  - Zea, Arnold H.
AU  - Gardner, Renee V.
TI  - Effect of L-arginine supplementation on immune responsiveness in patients with sickle cell disease
JO  - Pediatric Blood & Cancer
JA  - Pediatr. Blood Cancer
VL  - 55
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pbc.22562
DO  - doi:10.1002/pbc.22562
SP  - 318
EP  - 323
KW  - arginine
KW  - sickle cell
KW  - T lymphocyte function
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Background L-arginine (L-Arg) is deficient in sickle cell disease (SSD) during vasoocclusion. We investigated possible causal relationship between L-Arg deficiency and immune dysfunction in SSD in steady-state. Procedure Fifteen patients with SSD in steady-state and 13 controls were studied. Plasma L-Arg levels were measured using liquid chromatography. T cell subsets and CD3zeta (CD3?) chain expression were analyzed using flow cytometry. Lymphocyte proliferative response to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and production of IL-6 and interferon-gamma (IFN-?) were evaluated with and without L-Arg. Results SSD patients had significantly lower L-Arg levels than controls. CD3 and CD19 cell populations were comparable for both groups, but SSD patients had above normal numbers of natural killer cells (P?=?0.06). Patients and controls exhibited significantly increased lymphocyte blastogenesis to PHA after introduction of L-Arg to cultures; response of patients was significantly greater than values for control individuals. Proliferative response to candida in SSD patients was significantly lower than in controls; L-Arg supplementation did not increase this response. L-Arg had no effect on blastogenic response to PPD and candida albicans. No effect was likewise seen in production of IL-6 and IFN-? after addition of L-Arg. CD3? chain expression increased after addition of L-Arg in both groups; differences were insignificant. Conclusion L-Arg levels in steady-state SSD are significantly lower than in controls. L-Arg supplementation enhanced lymphocyte blastogenesis to PHA for both controls and patients, but not in response to antigen. There were no significant differences in CD3? chain expression although upregulation of expression occurred after L-Arg supplementation for both groups. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2010;55:318?323. ? 2010 Wiley?Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - ASTERMARK, J.
TI  - Why do inhibitors develop? Principles of and factors influencing the risk for inhibitor development in haemophilia
JO  - Haemophilia
VL  - 12
IS  - s3
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2516.2006.01261.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2516.2006.01261.x
SP  - 52
EP  - 60
KW  - genotype
KW  - haemophilia
KW  - inhibitors
KW  - risk factors
PY  - 2006
AB  - Summary.? The formation of inhibitory alloantibodies is, in the postinfectious era, the most severe and costly complication of replacement therapy in patients with haemophilia. The complexity of the immune response to the infused factor becomes more and more obvious as knowledge in the area increases. Antibodies develop as a result of a complex multi-factorial interaction between antigen-presenting cells, T- and B-lymphocytes. Genetic susceptibility of cell surface molecules, such as the major histocompatibility complex, the T-cell receptor and cytokine receptors, as well as various immunomodulatory molecules have a major impact on the outcome. In addition, environmental factors probably influence the risk of inhibitor development. The current concept of inhibitor development is reviewed. A better understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms involved will facilitate improvement of therapy in the future, and hopefully provide an opportunity to prevent this complication of treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Shechter, Ravid
AU  - Schwartz, Michal
TI  - Harnessing monocyte-derived macrophages to control central nervous system pathologies: no longer ‘if’ but ‘how’
JO  - The Journal of Pathology
JA  - J. Pathol.
VL  - 229
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/path.4106
DO  - doi:10.1002/path.4106
SP  - 332
EP  - 346
KW  - neuroimmunology
KW  - CNS pathology
KW  - macrophages
KW  - microglia
KW  - neurodegenerative disease
KW  - spinal cord injury
KW  - monocytes
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract The central nervous system (CNS) tissues, including the brain, the eye, and the spinal cord, are immune-privileged, secluded from the circulation by a complex of barriers, and equipped with their own myeloid cell population, the resident microglia. Based on the classical perspective of immune?brain interactions and on the contribution of such interactions to the progression of multiple sclerosis, an autoimmune inflammatory disease of the CNS, infiltrating macrophages were traditionally viewed as an enemy of the nervous system. However, over the past two decades, research has revealed the pivotal role of monocyte-derived macrophages in CNS repair, and opened up a new era in understanding and treating CNS pathologies. Here, we gather current knowledge regarding macrophage broad spectrum of activities in the CNS, whose two poles correspond to the classical pro-inflammatory M1 and the ?alternatively-activated? M2 cells previously described in various non-CNS pathologies, and their diverse, multi-functional contribution in various neurological conditions, ranging from acute traumas to neurodegenerative disorders, and autoimmune diseases. The diverse functions are manifested by induction and resolution of inflammation as well as their involvement in neural tissue regeneration and renewal, matrix remodelling, debris clearance, and angiogenesis. A special focus is devoted to current evidence suggesting that resident microglia and infiltrating monocyte-derived macrophages are functionally non-redundant cell types. Taken together, these recent advances reveal a dramatic therapeutic opportunity for controlled harnessing of macrophages for repair of the damaged CNS following acute insults, in neurodegenerative conditions, and in psychiatric disorders.
ER  - 
