
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Elliott, Rodney D.
AU  - Meltzer, Bernard N.
TI  - Symbolic Interactionism and Psychoanalysis: Some Convergences, Divergences, and Complementarities*
JO  - Symbolic Interaction
VL  - 4
IS  - 2
SN  - 0195-6086
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1525/si.1981.4.2.225
DO  - doi:10.1525/si.1981.4.2.225
SP  - 225
EP  - 244
PY  - 1981
AB  - In spite of a number of fundamental contrasts between the assumptions and methodologies of symbolic interactionist and psychoanalytic theories of social interaction in general and socialization in particular, the two perspectives embrace several common interpretations of human action. Moreover, many of the divergences can be appreciated as complementing, rather than contradicting, each other. Some of the more important convergences and complementarities, as well as unresolved differences, are noted and briefly treated under four broad rubrics: (1) human nature and human habitat; (2) the nature and stages of socialization; (3) the structure and functions of personality; and (4) the nature of social relationships. The points of synthesis implied by the complementarities between the two perspectives do not necessarily lead to eclecticism. On the other hand, such syntheses can enhance the analytical power of each perspective.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Paterson, C.
AU  - Symons, L.
AU  - Britten, N.
AU  - Bargh, J.
TI  - Developing the Medication Change Questionnaire
JO  - Journal of Clinical Pharmacy and Therapeutics
VL  - 29
IS  - 4
SN  - 0269-4727
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2710.2004.00570.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2710.2004.00570.x
SP  - 339
EP  - 349
KW  - alternative medicine
KW  - drug utilization
KW  - medication diary
KW  - outcome assessment
KW  - questionnaires
KW  - treatment outcome
PY  - 2004
AB  - Summary Objective:? People who seek non-pharmaceutical interventions are often motivated by a desire to avoid or reduce orthodox medication. Effectiveness research in these areas needs to measure change in medication as an outcome. We set out to develop a data collection tool that is sensitive to changes in individual drug use over time. Method:? A multi-disciplinary team designed, piloted, and revised the Medication Change Questionnaire (MCQ) on two occasions, and used qualitative interviews to understand the patient's perspective and ensure that the final product accurately reflected the medication that patients were taking. Thirty patients in one general practice completed the questionnaire on two occasions and a purposive sample of 14 were interviewed. The design sought to enable patients to record all their ingested medication accurately, both prescription and over-the-counter drugs, over a period of 7?days. It was designed to be administered face-to face on the first occasion, and to be self-completed on subsequent occasions. Results:? In considering in detail what medication was taken each day, the interview data fully correlated with the MCQ data in only one of the five people who were interviewed after completing the first draft of the questionnaire, but in eight of the nine people who completed the second draft. Of these eight people all but one had made some change to their medication, either by stopping or starting a drug, varying the dose of a drug or always taking one or more drugs in varying doses. The interviews demonstrated the complex and individual ways that people took their medicines, and the disparity between what was prescribed and what was actually taken. The qualitative data were also useful for reflecting on the potential advantages and disadvantages of other data collection methods, such as single medication questions and pill counts. Conclusion:? By involving patients at every level of research, we have developed a questionnaire that enables people to record their medication use accurately over a 7-day period, and to demonstrate changes in medication over time. Further work is required to assess its acceptability by different patient populations and its feasibility in terms of completion rates over longer periods of repeated use. We believe the MCQ to be an improvement over the variety of ad-hoc tools used in the past and it is freely available from the authors.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - MATTHEWS, J. B.
TI  - Facing the threat of equine parasitic disease
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 43
IS  - 2
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.2010.00356.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.2010.00356.x
SP  - 126
EP  - 132
KW  - horse
KW  - parasites
KW  - cyathostomins
KW  - anthelmintic resistance
KW  - research
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary Horses worldwide are exposed to a complex mixture of intestinal parasitic helminths. When burdens are high, these parasites can seriously compromise health and welfare. Some helminth species have an extremely high prevalence and are difficult to control, not least because there is a limited understanding of their most basic biology. Furthermore, levels of resistance to some of the commonly used anthelmintics are widespread and increasing. The cyathostomins are the most common nematode species affecting equids worldwide. Within this group of parasites are more than 50 different species. Until recent research activities, little was known about the contribution that individual species make to clinical disease, parasite epidemiology and anthelmintic resistance. This review describes some of the recent research advances in the understanding of cyathostomins in these areas. As part of the research effort, molecular tools were developed to facilitate identification of the non-parasitic stages of cyathostomins. These tools have proved invaluable in the investigation of the relative contributions that individual species make to the pathology and epidemiology of mixed infections. At the more applied level, research has also progressed in the development of a diagnostic test that will allow numbers of cyathostomin encysted larvae to be estimated. This test utilises cyathostomin-specific serum antibody responses as markers of infection. As anthelmintic resistance will be the major constraint on parasite control in future, researchers are actively investigating mechanisms of drug resistance and how to improve the detection of resistance in the field. Recent developments in these areas are also outlined.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - CLOWES, F. A. L.
TI  - THE CYTOGENERATIVE CENTRE IN ROOTS WITH BROAD COLUMELLAS
JO  - New Phytologist
VL  - 52
IS  - 1
SN  - 0028-646X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1953.tb05204.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1469-8137.1953.tb05204.x
SP  - 48
EP  - 57
PY  - 1953
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Taylor, Bronagh
AU  - Hanna, Donncha
AU  - McPhillips, Martin
TI  - Motor problems in children with severe emotional and behavioural difficulties
JO  - British Journal of Educational Psychology
JA  - Br J Educ Psychol
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 0007-0998
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bjep.12327
DO  - doi:10.1111/bjep.12327
KW  - motor difficulties
KW  - emotional problems
KW  - psychosocial functioning
KW  - behavioural difficulties
AB  - Background There is growing evidence that children with motor difficulties are at risk of psychosocial problems and vice versa. However, it is not clear how far different aspects of motor function are predictive of psychosocial well-being in the context of other powerful factors, such as family upset, that are known to affect psychosocial development. Aims To investigate the role of basic motor skills and primary reflex persistence in young children with severe emotional and behavioural difficulties (EBD). Sample From a total sample of 225 children, three groups were selected: children excluded from school (severe EBD) (n = 29), a male comparison group (n = 38), and a female comparison group (n = 45). The groups were matched (at group level) on age, IQ, and level of social disadvantage. Method All of the selected children completed a range of standardized motor, cognitive, social, and behavioural measures, as well as a clinical protocol for primary reflex persistence. Results Children with severe EBD had significant levels of motor difficulties, primary reflex persistence, and family upset, as well as significant literacy problems, attention deficits, and raised levels of hyperactivity/impulsivity relative to the comparison groups. A hierarchical multiple regression analysis revealed that basic motor skills, primary reflex persistence, family upset, hyperactivity, and literacy were all significant predictors of psychosocial functioning. Conclusions The findings suggest that motor difficulties and primary reflex persistence may act as independent stressors of psychosocial functioning in children with EBD. We suggest that specific movement interventions should be adopted to complement existing provision for children at risk of psychosocial problems.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Goffinet, F.
AU  - Aboulker, D.
AU  - Subtil, D.
AU  - Uzan
AU  - Bréart, G.
AU  - Uzan, S.
TI  - WS12-02Systematic screening with a uterine Doppler in low-risk pregnant women followed by low-dose aspirin in cases with abnormal results: results of the two French multicenter randomised controlled trial
JO  - Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology
VL  - 16
IS  - s1
SN  - 0960-7692
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-69.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-69.x
SP  - 21
EP  - 21
PY  - 2000
AB  - Objectives Two large multicenter randomised trials were performed in France to assess whether systematic screening with an artery uteroplacental Doppler (AUD) in low-risk pregnant women followed by the prescription of low-dose aspirin in cases with abnormal results reduced the incidence of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and of preeclampsia. Study design and population The first trial ?Seine Saint-Denis? (SSD) trial included 3317 low-risk pregnant women (multi and primigravidae) in 17 French maternity Hospitals and the second ?Erasme? trial included 1869 primigravidae in 12 centres. In the Doppler group, the AUD was performed between 20 and 24?weeks, and women with abnormal results received 100?mg of aspirin daily until the 35th week. Results In the Doppler group, 232 patients (15.7%) had an abnormal result in the SSD trial and 20% in the ERASME trial. The predictive value of the AUD was comparable to that reported in the studies of low-risk populations, but with a low sensitivity. Finally, IUGR, whether defined by the third or tenth percentile, and preeclampsia did not differ significantly between the treatment groups in both trials. Conclusions There is no proof justifying the recommendation of a systematic AUD in a low-risk population, even if abnormal results are followed by aspirin treatment and increase in prenatal surveillance. Future studies must assess predictive tests that can be performed early in pregnancy and can identify populations at very high risk of preeclampsia and IUGR. Only when all of these conditions are fulfilled can aspirin prove its efficacy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Talarico, Lauren R.
AU  - Schatzberg, Scott J.
TI  - Idiopathic granulomatous and necrotising inflammatory disorders of the canine central nervous system: a review and future perspectives
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 51
IS  - 3
SN  - 0022-4510
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00823.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2009.00823.x
SP  - 138
EP  - 149
PY  - 2010
AB  - Granulomatous meningoencephalomyelitis, necrotizing meningoencephalitis, and necrotizing leukoencephalitis are common inflammatory conditions of the canine central nervous system. Although each disease has unique histopathological features, these canine disorders collectively seem to be aberrant immune responses directed against the central nervous system. A review of the neurological signs and general neurodiagnostic approach to canine meningoencephalitis is followed by an overview of the specific clinical and neuropathological features of granulomatous meningoencephalomyelitis, necrotizing meningoencephalitis, and necrotizing leukoencephalitis. The aetiopathogenesis of each disorder is explored including potential genetic, immunological, and environmental factors along with the current and prospective immunomodulatory therapies for meningoencephalitis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - WILSON, D. V.
AU  - LANKENAU, C.
AU  - BERNEY, C. E.
AU  - PERONI, D. L.
AU  - MULLINEAUX, D. R.
AU  - ROBINSON, N. E.
TI  - The effects of a single acupuncture treatment in horses with severe recurrent airway obstruction
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 36
IS  - 6
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/0425164044877323
DO  - doi:10.2746/0425164044877323
SP  - 489
EP  - 494
KW  - horse
KW  - acupuncture
KW  - chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
KW  - heaves
KW  - lung function
KW  - placebo effect
PY  - 2004
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study: Acupuncture may be recommended for horses with ?heaves? because it is being increasingly applied to treat human asthma. Therefore, its efficacy was investigated in horses with this asthmalike disease. Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of a single acupuncture treatment for the relief of airway obstruction in heaves-affected horses. Methods: The efficacy of a single acupuncture treatment was tested in 10 heaves-affected horses, and the effect of removal from the dusty stall environment in 5 heaves-affected horses. Before treatment, horses were stabled to induce airway obstruction and, apart from trips to the laboratory for pulmonary function measurements, they remained stabled for the duration of each treatment. The severity of airway obstruction was quantified by measurement of lung function before treatment (baseline), and at 20, 60, 120 and 240 mins and 24 h after the following treatments administered in random order: halter restraint and patting, a single acupuncture treatment by an experienced acupuncturist, and a single acupuncture treatment using predetermined points (recipe) by a veterinarian with no acupuncture training. In a second study, horses were untreated and remained either in their stall or in a paddock for all measurements of lung function, after baseline readings were made. Results: In the first study, after all treatments, there was a temporal improvement in maximal change in pleural pressure, pulmonary resistance, dynamic compliance, respiratory rate, and tidal volume that lasted less than 24 h. There was no specific effect of acupuncture treatment. In the second study, removal from the dusty environment did not produce an improvement in lung function in the first 6 h. We conclude that most of the improvements in lung function observed in the study were due to handling. Conclusions: Assessed objectively, a single acupuncture treatment during an attack of heaves causes no more improvement in lung function than does handling the horse. Potential relevance: Acupuncture should not replace conventional medical treatments for heaves.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kollenscher, Eldad
AU  - Eden, Dov
AU  - Ronen, Boaz
AU  - Farjoun, Moshe
TI  - Architectural Leadership: The Neglected Core of Organizational Leadership
JO  - European Management Review
JA  - European Management Review
VL  - 14
IS  - 3
SN  - 1740-4754
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/emre.12108
DO  - doi:10.1111/emre.12108
SP  - 247
EP  - 264
KW  - leadership
KW  - structuring, operations
KW  - core processes
KW  - value creation
KW  - capabilities
PY  - 2017
AB  - The cornerstone of architectural leadership (AL) theory is to structure the organization in service to its strategy so as to improve its capabilities and enhance its value. Rather than relying on the CEO's personal influence, AL centers on structuring and operating core organization-wide processes that diffuse leadership influence across managerial levels and harness the whole organization better to attain its goals. AL is grounded in the academic management literature. It complements theories that focus on targets but neglect the means needed to achieve them. Though most managers spend much of their time dealing with the means while struggling with insufficient infrastructure, existing management theories ignore these issues or say little about them. Architectural leadership theory provides a solution to this lacuna. Applying AL can help managers create value by developing the infrastructure required for strategy implementation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ruiz, C.E.
AU  - Mullins, C.E.
AU  - Rochini, A.P.
AU  - Radtke, W.A.K.
AU  - Hijazi, Z.M.
AU  - O'Laughlin, M.P.
AU  - Bouceck, M.M.
AU  - Gillette, P.C.
AU  - Hagler, D.J.
TI  - Core curriculum for the training of pediatric invasive/interventional cardiologists: Report of the Society for Cardiac Angiography and Interventions Committee on pediatric cardiology training standards
JO  - Catheterization and Cardiovascular Diagnosis
JA  - Cathet. Cardiovasc. Diagn.
VL  - 37
IS  - 4
SN  - 0098-6569
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-0304(199604)37:4<409::AID-CCD10>3.0.CO;2-A
DO  - doi:10.1002/(SICI)1097-0304(199604)37:4<409::AID-CCD10>3.0.CO;2-A
SP  - 409
EP  - 424
PY  - 1996
AB  - Abstract Within the field of pediatric cardiology, a number of subspecialty fields are generally recognized. Some of these overlap. For example, most electrophysiologists also would consider themselves to be clinical cardiologists. Some fields, however, are relatively mutually exclusive. For example, most clinical pediatric cardiologists would not consider themselves to be electrophysiologists and would admit that there is a different knowledge, skill, and experience base that separates an electrophysiologist from other specialists within the broader field of pediatric cardiology. Likewise, it is our opinion that a separate knowledge, skill, and experience base exists among pediatric invasive/interventional cardiologists. The purpose of this report is to define the unique knowledge and skill base required for the training of an invasive pediatric cardiologist. The scope of this report is limited to the training of invasive/interventional cardiologists dealing with the treatment of pediatric patients and the cardiac diseases most often encountered in these patients. This report describes in detail the core curriculum suggested for the training of an invasive pediatric cardiologist. For these purposes, invasive pediatric cardiology encompasses all aspects of pediatric diagnostic cardiac catheterization, whether congenital or acquired. Additional curriculum regarding training for therapeutic or interventional procedures is also addressed because of today's needs: most pediatric cardiac catheterizations are performed to acquire specific data that cannot be obtained otherwise by noninvasive technologies and are required for the best medical or surgical management. However, more and more frequently the need for a cardiac catheterization entertains the possibility of having to proceed with an interventional procedure, and therefore, to conserve the vessels of pediatric patients as well as to consider costs, any invasive pediatric cardiologist should be well trained in most of the accepted interventional pediatric cardiology procedures. The curricula is divided here into five major sections followed by a bibliography keyed to those sections. Also included is a suggested format for the objective evaluation and documentation of the progress of invasive pediatric cardiology fellows. It is intended to complement the core curriculum and provide a means for standardizing the evaluation of invasive pediatric cardiology fellows. ? 1996 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - O'Sullivan, Shane
AU  - Leonard, Simon
AU  - Holzinger, Andreas
AU  - Allen, Colin
AU  - Battaglia, Fiorella
AU  - Nevejans, Nathalie
AU  - van Leeuwen, Fijs W.B.
AU  - Sajid, Mohammed Imran
AU  - Friebe, Michael
AU  - Ashrafian, Hutan
AU  - Heinsen, Helmut
AU  - Wichmann, Dominic
AU  - Hartnett, Margaret
C7  - e2020
C8  - RCS-18-0112.R3
TI  - Anatomy 101 for AI-driven robotics: Explanatory, ethical and legal frameworks for development of cadaveric skills training standards in autonomous robotic surgery/autopsy
JO  - The International Journal of Medical Robotics and Computer Assisted Surgery
JA  - Int J Med Robotics Comput Assist Surg
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 1478-5951
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/rcs.2020
DO  - doi:10.1002/rcs.2020
SP  - e2020
AB  - Abstract Background The application of human-centred artificial intelligence (AI) and transparent machine learning (ML), to integrated Gross anatomy models, complemented with medical imaging data of cadavers and novel audio tissue characterization methods, makes available a route to autonomous robot-delivered surgeries and pathological characterisation. It can provide the capability of objective autopsy with reliable operations that improve both accuracy (robot) and tissue interpretation (AI), thus preventing the wrong diagnosis from being made. Methods We reviewed technological advances and state-of-the-art developments documented by undertaking a literature search on autonomous robotics for surgery and autopsy, tracing agents, explainable AI, ML black box solutions, algorithmic transparent/opaque processes, as well as AI legal and ethical issues such as data biases (e.g. gender/racial/social bias) and relevant traditional, religious or sociocultural aspects. For the use of autonomous robotics in either surgery or autopsy, our approach is to discuss the ?challenges and knowledge gaps? followed by our proposed ?hypotheses and recommendations?. Conclusion The integration of explainable AI and ML, and novel tissue characterization sensorics to tele-operated robotic procedures with medical imaged cadavers, provides robotic guidance and refines tissue classifications at a molecular level. This can lead to the development of software that is not restricted to just automating ?autopsies? but, rather, could hold potential for ?surgeries? at large. The current R&D on autonomous surgical robotics is typically presented by comparing the skills of ?humans? versus ?robots?. In contrast, our assertion is that autonomous robotics and explainable AI can support healthcare values complementing and augmenting human capacities ? NOT replacing them. Autonomous robots, trained to perform surgery or autopsy, based on their trained algorithms, can deliver practical positive solutions in medicine. This potential improves when advanced imaging solutions help provide GPS-like guidance and improve tissue interpretation. In the short term, we are confident that autonomous robotic ?autopsy? coupled to ML, with a human-in-the-loop, could present a fundamental change in forensic analysis of cadavers. Furthermore, autonomous procedures, applied to medical imaging-guided robotic autopsies, can furnish powerful support to pathological and technological developments that are translatable to broader surgical procedures (e.g. enhancing motor control in a standard tele-operated surgical system and improving imaging based GPS-like navigation of robotic tools). In addition to being necessary for complex access and guidance, these reliable operations are independent to the human factors that encompass fatigue, and risk of pathological exposure, such as contagious vectors and psychopathy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Casimiro, Suzy
AU  - Hancock, Peter
AU  - Northcote, Jeremy
TI  - Isolation and Insecurity: Resettlement Issues Among Muslim Refugee Women in Perth, Western Australia
JO  - Australian Journal of Social Issues
JA  - Australian Journal of Social Issues
VL  - 42
IS  - 1
SN  - 0157-6321
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/j.1839-4655.2007.tb00039.x
DO  - doi:10.1002/j.1839-4655.2007.tb00039.x
SP  - 55
EP  - 69
KW  - Muslim women
KW  - Australian refugees
KW  - settlement experiences
PY  - 2007
AB  - Refugee Muslim women face a number of formidable obstacles in the resettlement process within Australia. As Muslims, they are a religious minority that has come under considerable racial attack in recent years in the wake of international terrorism. As refugees, they are struggling to put past traumas behind them and find ?security? in a strange land with different customs. As women, they are trying to find a voice for themselves amidst ethnic traditions that limit their range of expression and an Australian society that aspires to, but has not yet achieved, equality for women. Our qualitative study, upon which this paper is based, explored resettlement issues of Muslim refugee women during their first five years of arrival in Perth, Australia. It is based on focus groups and semi-structured interviews with 80 Muslim refugee women: 35 Iraqi, 34 Sudanese and 11 Afghan. Our study re-affirms that well-documented issues of resettlement continue to be poor English language competency, securing employment and accommodation and gender-specific problems. In addition, however, our study highlights a new and emerging issue, which is that of personal, psychological and cultural insecurity, heightened by the current political climate and exacerbated by their religious background. This leads to problematic ?intersections? with an Australian society that is far more complex and more difficult to cope with than is portrayed in popular discourse and political rhetoric of the easy-going ?lucky country?.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stevens, Robert D.
AU  - Van Gessel, Elisabeth
AU  - Flory, Nicolas
AU  - Fournier, Roxane
AU  - Gamulin, Zdravko
TI  - Anesthesia (9)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 1530-7085
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-9.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-9.x
SP  - 86
EP  - 87
PY  - 2001
AB  - Lumbar plexus clock reduces pain and blood loss associated with total hip arthroplasty. (Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genéve, Geneva, Switzerland) Anesthesiology 2000;93:115?121. In this study, 60 patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty were randomized to receive general anesthesia with (plexus group, n = 30) or without (control group, n = 30) a posterior lumbar plexus block. The block was performed after induction using a nerve stimulator, and 0.4 mL/kg bupivacaine, 0.5%, with epinephrine was injected. General anesthesia was standardized, and supplemental fentanyl was administered per hemodynamic guidelines. Postoperative pain and patient-controlled intravenous morphine use were serially assessed for 48 h. The proportion of patients receiving supplemental fentanyl intraoperatively was more than 3 times greater in the control group (20 of 30 vs. 6 of 29, P = 0.001). In the postanesthesia care unit, a greater than fourfold reduction in pain scores was observed in the plexus group and ?rescue? morphine boluses were administered 10 times less frequently. Pain scores and morphine consumption remained significantly lower in the plexus group until 6 h after randomization. Operative and postoperative (48 h) blood loss was decreased modestly in the treated group. Epidural-like distribution of anesthesia occurred in 3 of 28 plexus group patients, but no other side effects were noted. Conclude that posterior lumbar plexus block provides effective analgesia for total hip arthroplasty, reducing intraoperative and postoperative opioid requirements. Blood loss during and after the procedure is diminished. Epidural anesthetic distribution should be anticipated in a minority of cases. Comment by Alan David Kaye, MD, PhD. The benefits of regional anesthetic techniques are well established for patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty. For example, it is common knowledge to the clinical anesthesiologist that regional anesthesia results in reduced blood loss as well as a reduction in thromboembolic events postoperatively. This interesting study considered a posterior lumbar plexus block since a significant portion of the hip is innervated via branches of the lumbar plexus. A randomized, double-blinded trial of 60 consecutive patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty under general anesthesia was performed. Thirty patients had general anesthesia alone and 30 patients had general anesthesia with the lumbar plexus block. Pain scores and morphine consumption postoperatively were evaluated over a 48-h period. Patients in the control group required supplemental narcotic (20/30) versus those in the lumbar plexus block group (6/30). No BIS monitor was employed simply with the end point of additional analgesic being an increase in blood pressure or heart rate greater than 130% of the baseline. Epidural-like distribution of anesthesia occurred in 3 of 28 patients receiving the block. Incidence of nausea and vomiting was similar in both groups and pain scores were significantly lower until the 6-h period postoperatively. There was a block-associated reduction in hemorrhage. These results are not surprising; however, it would be unlikely that this block would be done in a repeated series and the authors describe a continuous catheter-based technique, which they have presented in abstract form for longer-term postoperative pain relief. The associated complications with this block must be weighed with these positive and predictable findings. The complexity of proper placement of this block compared with other regional techniques and its potential side effects would make this block difficult to implement in the operating room. The authors should be complemented for this study and great consideration for its potential benefits in clinical practice should be considered.
ER  - 

AU  - Ram, Saravanan
AU  - Clark, Glenn T.
C7  - pp. 212-231
TI  - Management of Orofacial Pain and Other Co-Morbidities in Oropharyngeal and Nasopharyngeal Cancer Patients
SN  - 9780813815596
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118704851.ch13
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118704851.ch13
SP  - 212-231
KW  - Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM)
KW  - Corticosteroids and adjuvant analgesic
KW  - Intraoral sensory alterations
KW  - Neurosurgical procedures and anesthetic management
KW  - Nonopioid analgesics (NOAs)
KW  - Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
KW  - Opioids and cannabinoids
KW  - Oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal cancer pain
KW  - Skeletal muscle relaxants
KW  - Speech, masticatory and swallowing deficits
PY  - 2001
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Oropharyngeal or Nasopharyngeal Cancer Pain Pain Prevalence in Cancer Patients Orofacial Pain as the First Sign of Oropharyngeal and Nasopharyngeal Cancer Co-Morbidities as a Result of Cancer and its Therapy Challenges in Cancer Pain Management Management of Cancer Pain Eighteen Final Recommendations on Treatment of Cancer-Related Orofacial Pain and Dysfunction Acknowledgment
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bisagni, Francesco
TI  - On the impact of words: interpretation, empathy and affect regulation
JO  - Journal of Analytical Psychology
JA  - J Anal Psychol
VL  - 58
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780813815596
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1468-5922.12041
DO  - doi:10.1111/1468-5922.12041
SP  - 615
EP  - 635
KW  - empathy and empathism
KW  - interpretation
KW  - personal pronoun
KW  - supervisory situation
KW  - words as action
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract This paper offers a contribution towards furthering our understanding of a theme more usually associated with the Freudian tradition, namely the role and function of words as action, particularly in relation to the representational process and its somatic roots. Some reference to neuroscience research will be offered in this respect. It also considers the value of differentiating Empathy from Empathism, as defined by the Italian psychoanalyst Stefano Bolognini who distinguishes informing complementary countertransference from states of over-concordance. Two analytic sessions taken from the intensive analysis of a deeply deprived late-latency child showing violent behaviour are provided with the aim of illustrating the application of these concepts. It is argued that, given the same elaboration of the countertransference and the adequate empathic position on the part of the analyst, the difference in the outcome of the interpretation was made by the specific use of words?in this case the use or not of the personal pronoun?in the two sessions. As the case material is taken from the clinical work of a supervisee, some elements regarding the supervisory situation are also discussed in the paper.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Santucci, Lauren C.
AU  - Thomassin, Kristel
AU  - Petrovic, Lea
AU  - Weisz, John R.
TI  - Building Evidence-Based Interventions for the Youth, Providers, and Contexts of Real-World Mental-Health Care
JO  - Child Development Perspectives
JA  - Child Dev Perspect
VL  - 9
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813815596
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cdep.12118
DO  - doi:10.1111/cdep.12118
SP  - 67
EP  - 73
KW  - youth psychotherapy
KW  - treatment research
KW  - dissemination
KW  - children and adolescents
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Efforts to identify empirically supported treatments (ESTs) for youth's mental health problems are valuable, but the descriptor empirically supported does not guarantee that a treatment will work well in everyday clinical use. The voltage drop often seen when ESTs move from efficacy studies to clinical practice contexts may reflect limited exposure to real-world conditions during development and testing. One result may be interventions that are focused more narrowly and are more linear than the clinical practice they are designed to enhance. In this article, we suggest three strategies for building and refining ESTs that are robust for real-world application: (a) designing interventions to fit the contexts of youth treatment, (b) structuring interventions that can be tailored to fit individual youth characteristics, and (c) building programs for nontraditional intervention contexts. In addition, we describe how to develop interventions that are ready for practical implementation: the deployment-focused model.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Evans, Chris
AU  - Connell, Janice
AU  - Barkham, Michael
AU  - Marshall, Chris
AU  - Mellor-Clark, John
TI  - Practice-based evidence: benchmarking NHS primary care counselling services at national and local levels
JO  - Clinical Psychology & Psychotherapy
JA  - Clin. Psychol. Psychother.
VL  - 10
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780813815596
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/cpp.384
DO  - doi:10.1002/cpp.384
SP  - 374
EP  - 388
PY  - 2003
AB  - Abstract There are a number of problems for evidence-based practice (EBP) including limited generalizability of efficacy research results, the consequent lack of confidence in the relevance of such research, and the conceptual distance of most practitioners from the research process. The result is that EBP, although sound in principle, often fails to achieve its aim of improving practice. Practice-based evidence (PBE) provides a complementary bridge for the gap between research and practice to offset some of these problems, promoting collaboration between mental health services and academic institutions. This paper presents the initial results of such a collaboration via three phases: (1) the development of a referential database for primary care counselling services, (2) ?practitioner-friendly? feedback on grouped data to services, and (3) the combination of the two to build an evidence base for work with ethnic minorities?an area in which research trials are not well adapted to provide much evidence.?Copyright ? 2003 John Wily & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wilson, Peter G.
AU  - O'Brien, Marcelle M.
AU  - Gadek, Paul A.
AU  - Quinn, Christopher J.
TI  - Myrtaceae revisited: a reassessment of infrafamilial groups
JO  - American Journal of Botany
JA  - Am. J. Bot.
VL  - 88
IS  - 11
SN  - 9780813815596
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2307/3558428
DO  - doi:10.2307/3558428
SP  - 2013
EP  - 2025
KW  - matK
KW  - molecular phylogeny
KW  - morphology
KW  - Myrtaceae
PY  - 2001
AB  - Cladistic analyses are presented of matK sequence data as well as a nonmolecular database for an identical set of exemplar species chosen to represent the core genera or groups of genera in Myrtaceae. Eleven robust clades are recognized on the molecular data. Polyphyly of the previously recognized Metrosideros and Leptospermum alliances is confirmed, and several smaller informal taxonomic groupings are recognized from among the members of the former alliance, i.e., the Tristania, Tristaniopsis, Metrosideros, and Lophostemon groups. The nonmolecular analysis provides only limited resolution of relationships. A degree of congruence exists between the two analyses in that two separate fleshy-fruited clades, the Acmena and Myrtoid groups, are identified, as are the Eucalypt and Tristania groups, and Psiloxylon and Heteropyxis are the first lineages to diverge in both analyses. A combined analysis recognized all 11 clades that received strong support from the molecular data. A high level of homoplasy is revealed in many of the nonmolecular characters when they are examined against the combined estimate of phylogeny.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Abrahimi, P.
AU  - Liu, R.
AU  - Pober, J. S.
TI  - Blood Vessels in Allotransplantation
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 15
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780813815596
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.13242
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajt.13242
SP  - 1748
EP  - 1754
KW  - Editorial
KW  - immunobiology
KW  - organ transplantation in general
KW  - personal viewpoint
KW  - rejection: antibody-mediated (ABMR)
KW  - rejection: chronic
KW  - rejection: T cell-mediated (TCMR)
KW  - rejection: vascular
KW  - vascular biology
PY  - 2015
AB  - Human vascularized allografts are perfused through blood vessels composed of cells (endothelium, pericytes, and smooth muscle cells) that remain largely of graft origin and are thus subject to host alloimmune responses. Graft vessels must be healthy to maintain homeostatic functions including control of perfusion, maintenance of permselectivity, prevention of thrombosis, and participation in immune surveillance. Vascular cell injury can cause dysfunction that interferes with these processes. Graft vascular cells can be activated by mediators of innate and adaptive immunity to participate in graft inflammation contributing to both ischemia/reperfusion injury and allograft rejection. Different forms of rejection may affect graft vessels in different ways, ranging from thrombosis and neutrophilic inflammation in hyperacute rejection, to endothelialitis/intimal arteritis and fibrinoid necrosis in acute cell-mediated or antibody-mediated rejection, respectively, and to diffuse luminal stenosis in chronic rejection. While some current therapies targeting the host immune system do affect graft vascular cells, direct targeting of the graft vasculature may create new opportunities for preventing allograft injury and loss.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hao, Zi-Chen
AU  - Lu, Jun
AU  - Wang, Shan-Zheng
AU  - Wu, Hao
AU  - Zhang, Yun-Tong
AU  - Xu, Shuo-Gui
C7  - e12359
TI  - Stem cell-derived exosomes: A promising strategy for fracture healing
JO  - Cell Proliferation
JA  - Cell Prolif
VL  - 50
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780813815596
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cpr.12359
DO  - doi:10.1111/cpr.12359
SP  - e12359
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Objectives To describe the biological characteristics of exosomes and to summarize the current status of stem cell-derived exosomes on fracture healing. Meanwhile, future challenges, limitations and perspectives are also discussed. Methods Search and analyze the related articles in pubmed database through the multi-combination of keywords like ?stem cells?,?exosomes?,?bone regeneration? and ?fracture healing?. Conclusion Stem cell-derived exosome therapy for fracture healing has been enjoying popularity and is drawing increasing attention. This strategy helps to promote proliferation and migration of cells, as well as osteogenesis and angiogenesis, in the process of bone formation. Although the exact mechanisms remain elusive, exosomal miRNAs seem to play vital roles. Future studies are required to solve multiple problems before clinical application, including comprehensive and thorough understanding of exosomes, the exact roles of exosomes in regulating bone formation, and the optimal source, dose and frequency of treatment, as well as technical and safety issues. Moreover, studies based on fracture models of large animals are could offer guidance and are in demand.
ER  - 
