
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Keenan, Kathryn E.
AU  - Ainslie, Maureen
AU  - Barker, Alex J.
AU  - Boss, Michael A.
AU  - Cecil, Kim M.
AU  - Charles, Cecil
AU  - Chenevert, Thomas L.
AU  - Clarke, Larry
AU  - Evelhoch, Jeffrey L.
AU  - Finn, Paul
AU  - Gembris, Daniel
AU  - Gunter, Jeffrey L.
AU  - Hill, Derek L.G.
AU  - Jack Jr., Clifford R.
AU  - Jackson, Edward F.
AU  - Liu, Guoying
AU  - Russek, Stephen E.
AU  - Sharma, Samir D.
AU  - Steckner, Michael
AU  - Stupic, Karl F.
AU  - Trzasko, Joshua D.
AU  - Yuan, Chun
AU  - Zheng, Jie
TI  - Quantitative magnetic resonance imaging phantoms: A review and the need for a system phantom
JO  - Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
JA  - Magn. Reson. Med
VL  - 79
IS  - 1
SN  - 0740-3194
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mrm.26982
DO  - doi:10.1002/mrm.26982
SP  - 48
EP  - 61
KW  - phantom
KW  - quantitative
KW  - system consistency
KW  - quality assurance
PY  - 2018
AB  - The MRI community is using quantitative mapping techniques to complement qualitative imaging. For quantitative imaging to reach its full potential, it is necessary to analyze measurements across systems and longitudinally. Clinical use of quantitative imaging can be facilitated through adoption and use of a standard system phantom, a calibration/standard reference object, to assess the performance of an MRI machine. The International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine AdHoc Committee on Standards for Quantitative Magnetic Resonance was established in February 2007 to facilitate the expansion of MRI as a mainstream modality for multi-institutional measurements, including, among other things, multicenter trials. The goal of the Standards for Quantitative Magnetic Resonance committee was to provide a framework to ensure that quantitative measures derived from MR data are comparable over time, between subjects, between sites, and between vendors. This paper, written by members of the Standards for Quantitative Magnetic Resonance committee, reviews standardization attempts and then details the need, requirements, and implementation plan for a standard system phantom for quantitative MRI. In addition, application-specific phantoms and implementation of quantitative MRI are reviewed. Magn Reson Med 79:48?61, 2018. ? 2017 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hammer, Niels
AU  - Scholze, Mario
AU  - Kibsgård, Thomas
AU  - Klima, Stefan
AU  - Schleifenbaum, Stefan
AU  - Seidel, Thomas
AU  - Werner, Michael
AU  - Grunert, Ronny
TI  - Physiological in vitro sacroiliac joint motion: a study on three-dimensional posterior pelvic ring kinematics
JO  - Journal of Anatomy
JA  - J. Anat.
VL  - 234
IS  - 3
SN  - 0021-8782
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/joa.12924
DO  - doi:10.1111/joa.12924
SP  - 346
EP  - 358
KW  - digital image correlation
KW  - innominate bone motion
KW  - nutation
KW  - pelvic girdle pain
KW  - pubic symphysis
KW  - sacroiliac joint kinematics
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract The sacroiliac joint (SIJ) is a well-known source of low back and pelvic pain, of increasing interest for both conservative and surgical treatment. Alterations in the kinematics of the pelvis have been hypothesized as a major cause of SIJ-related pain. However, definitions of both the range and the extent of physiological movement are controversial, and there are no clear baseline data for pathological alterations. The present study combined a novel biomechanical setup allowing for physiological motion of the lumbosacral transition and pelvis without restricting the SIJ movement in vitro, combined with optical image correlation. Six fresh human pelvises (81 ± 10 years, three females, three males) were tested, with bodyweight-adapted loading applied to the fifth lumbar vertebra and both acetabula. Deformation at the lumbopelvises was determined computationally from three-dimensional image correlation data. Sacroiliac joint motion under the loading of 100% bodyweight primarily consisted of a z-axis rotation (0.16°) and an inferior translation of the sacrum relative to the ilium (0.32 mm). Sacroiliac joint flexion-extension rotations were minute (< 0.02°). Corresponding movements of the SIJ were found at the lumbosacral transition, with an anterior translation of L5 relative to the sacrum of ?0.97 mm and an inferior translation of 0.11 mm, respectively. Moreover, a flexion of 1.82° was observed at the lumbosacral transition. Within the innominate bone and at the pubic symphysis, small complementary rotations were seen around a vertical axis, accounting for ?0.10° and 0.11°, respectively. Other motions were minute and accompanied by large interindividual variation. The present study provides evidence of different SIJ motions than reported previously when exerted by physiological loading. Sacroiliac joint kinematics were in the sub-degree and sub-millimeter range, in line with previous in vivo and in vitro findings, largely limited to the sagittal rotation and an inferior translation of the sacrum relative to the ilium. This given physiological loading scenario underlines the relevance of the lumbosacral transition when considering the overall motion of the lumbopelvis, and how relatively little the other segments contribute to overall motion.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 209-237
TI  - Diseases of the Cardiovascular System
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780813804361.ch9
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780813804361.ch9
SP  - 209-237
KW  - DL-malicum acidum
KW  - Rauwolfia serpentina - regulator of blood pressure
KW  - cardiac arrhythmias - Qi deficiency and blood and Qi stagnation affecting heart
KW  - detoxification remedy
KW  - free-radical-induced inflammation
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Cardiac Arrhythmias References Cardiomyopathies, Congenital Heart Diseases, Cardiac Arrhythmias, Congestive Heart Failure Heartworm Disease Hypertension Pericardial Effusion
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Parsons, Michael H.
AU  - Apfelbach, Raimund
AU  - Banks, Peter B.
AU  - Cameron, Elissa Z.
AU  - Dickman, Chris R.
AU  - Frank, Anke S. K.
AU  - Jones, Menna E.
AU  - McGregor, Ian S.
AU  - McLean, Stuart
AU  - Müller-Schwarze, Dietland
AU  - Sparrow, Elisa E.
AU  - Blumstein, Daniel T.
TI  - Biologically meaningful scents: a framework for understanding predator–prey research across disciplines
JO  - Biological Reviews
JA  - Biol Rev
VL  - 93
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/brv.12334
DO  - doi:10.1111/brv.12334
SP  - 98
EP  - 114
KW  - anti-anxiolytic scents
KW  - appeasement
KW  - attractants
KW  - conservation
KW  - deterrents
KW  - ecological informatics
KW  - odors
KW  - olfaction
KW  - PTSD
KW  - VNO
PY  - 2018
AB  - ABSTRACT Fear of predation is a universal motivator. Because predators hunt using stealth and surprise, there is a widespread ability among prey to assess risk from chemical information ? scents ? in their environment. Consequently, scents often act as particularly strong modulators of memory and emotions. Recent advances in ecological research and analytical technology are leading to novel ways to use this chemical information to create effective attractants, repellents and anti-anxiolytic compounds for wildlife managers, conservation biologists and health practitioners. However, there is extensive variation in the design, results, and interpretation of studies of olfactory-based risk discrimination. To understand the highly variable literature in this area, we adopt a multi-disciplinary approach and synthesize the latest findings from neurobiology, chemical ecology, and ethology to propose a contemporary framework that accounts for such disparate factors as the time-limited stability of chemicals, highly canalized mechanisms that influence prey responses, and the context within which these scents are detected (e.g. availability of alternative resources, perceived shelter, and ambient physical parameters). This framework helps to account for the wide range of reported responses by prey to predator scents, and explains, paradoxically, how the same individual predator scent can be interpreted as either safe or dangerous to a prey animal depending on how, when and where the cue was deposited. We provide a hypothetical example to illustrate the most common factors that influence how a predator scent (from dingoes, Canis dingo) may both attract and repel the same target organism (kangaroos, Macropus spp.). This framework identifies the catalysts that enable dynamic scents, odours or odorants to be used as attractants as well as deterrents. Because effective scent tools often relate to traumatic memories (fear and/or anxiety) that cause future avoidance, this information may also guide the development of appeasement, enrichment and anti-anxiolytic compounds, and help explain the observed variation in post-traumatic-related behaviours (including post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD) among diverse terrestrial taxa, including humans.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - League, Cedar E.
AU  - Díaz, Walter
AU  - Philips, Brenda
AU  - Bass, Ellen J.
AU  - Kloesel, Kevin
AU  - Gruntfest, Eve
AU  - Gessner, Alex
TI  - Emergency manager decision-making and tornado warning communication
JO  - Meteorological Applications
JA  - Met. Apps
VL  - 17
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/met.201
DO  - doi:10.1002/met.201
SP  - 163
EP  - 172
KW  - emergency management
KW  - tornado warnings
KW  - weather radar
KW  - spotters
KW  - user-centred system design
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Emergency managers (EMs) play a critical role in communicating severe weather and tornado warnings to the public, yet communicating the uncertainty of when, where or if a tornado may hit remains a great challenge for EMs. Focus group and survey data concerning weather product usage, weather observing spotter interaction, and decisions to warn the public were collected from Oklahoma EMs in order to characterize the communication processes EMs employ during severe weather outbreaks. These processes include: (1) acquiring weather information, (2) interpreting the information in order to make weather hazard threat assessments, (3) verifying the information, and (4) making time-sensitive warning decisions. The results indicate that while EMs use a variety of weather and radar products to acquire information, weather observing spotters are key sources of verification data. With respect to warning the public about tornado threats, sirens are the primary method. These findings are related to the development of a new radar system being developed by the Center for Collaborative Adaptive Sensing of the Atmosphere (CASA), so that this new technology can be designed to reduce uncertainty in the EM decision-making and warning communication processes. Copyright ? 2010 Royal Meteorological Society
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Melrose, James
TI  - Keratan sulfate (KS)-proteoglycans and neuronal regulation in health and disease: the importance of KS-glycodynamics and interactive capability with neuroregulatory ligands
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
JA  - J. Neurochem.
VL  - 149
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jnc.14652
DO  - doi:10.1111/jnc.14652
SP  - 170
EP  - 194
KW  - extracellular matrix and neuronal guidance
KW  - keratan sulfate neural proteoglycans
KW  - neural repair
KW  - neuronal plasticity
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Compared to the other classes of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), that is, chondroitin/dermatan sulfate, heparin/heparan sulfate and hyaluronan, keratan sulfate (KS), have the least known of its interactive properties. In the human body, the cornea and the brain are the two most abundant tissue sources of KS. Embryonic KS is synthesized as a linear poly-N-acetyllactosamine chain of d-galactose-GlcNAc repeat disaccharides which become progressively sulfated with development, sulfation of GlcNAc is more predominant than galactose. KS contains multi-sulfated high-charge density, monosulfated and non-sulfated poly-N-acetyllactosamine regions and thus is a heterogeneous molecule in terms of chain length and charge distribution. A recent proteomics study on corneal KS demonstrated its interactivity with members of the Slit-Robbo and Ephrin-Ephrin receptor families and proteins which regulate Rho GTPase signaling and actin polymerization/depolymerization in neural development and differentiation. KS decorates a number of peripheral nervous system/CNS proteoglycan (PG) core proteins. The astrocyte KS-PG abakan defines functional margins of the brain and is up-regulated following trauma. The chondroitin sulfate/KS PG aggrecan forms perineuronal nets which are dynamic neuroprotective structures with anti-oxidant properties and roles in neural differentiation, development and synaptic plasticity. Brain phosphacan a chondroitin sulfate, KS, HNK-1 PG have roles in neural development and repair. The intracellular microtubule and synaptic vesicle KS-PGs MAP1B and SV2 have roles in metabolite transport, storage, and export of neurotransmitters and cytoskeletal assembly. MAP1B has binding sites for tubulin and actin through which it promotes cytoskeletal development in growth cones and is highly expressed during neurite extension. The interactive capability of KS with neuroregulatory ligands indicate varied roles for KS-PGs in development and regenerative neural processes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - González-Tennant, Edward
TI  - Census Data and Property Records: An Alternative Archaeology of Rosewood
JO  - Anthropology News
VL  - 51
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1556-3502.2010.51526.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1556-3502.2010.51526.x
SP  - 26
EP  - 26
KW  - Field Notes
KW  - Rosewood race riot
KW  - 1923 riot
KW  - visual anthropology
KW  - visual archaeology
KW  - Rosewood
KW  - virtual reconstruction
KW  - GIS
PY  - 2010
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Trzeciak, Stephen
AU  - Cinel, Ismail
AU  - Phillip Dellinger, R.
AU  - Shapiro, Nathan I.
AU  - Arnold, Ryan C.
AU  - Parrillo, Joseph E.
AU  - Hollenberg, Steven M.
AU  - on behalf of the Microcirculatory Alterations in Resuscitation and Shock (MARS) Investigators
TI  - Resuscitating the Microcirculation in Sepsis: The Central Role of Nitric Oxide, Emerging Concepts for Novel Therapies, and Challenges for Clinical Trials
JO  - Academic Emergency Medicine
VL  - 15
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1553-2712.2008.00109.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1553-2712.2008.00109.x
SP  - 399
EP  - 413
KW  - microcirculation
KW  - sepsis
KW  - severe sepsis
KW  - septic shock
KW  - resuscitation
KW  - endothelium
KW  - nitric oxide
KW  - multi-organ failure
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Microcirculatory dysfunction is a critical element of the pathogenesis of severe sepsis and septic shock. In this Bench-to-Bedside review, we present: 1) the central role of the microcirculation in the pathophysiology of sepsis; 2) new translational research techniques of in vivo video microscopy for assessment of microcirculatory flow in human subjects; 3) clinical investigations that reported associations between microcirculatory dysfunction and outcome in septic patients; 4) the potential role of novel agents to ?rescue? the microcirculation in sepsis; 5) current challenges facing this emerging field of clinical investigation; and 6) a framework for the design of future clinical trials aimed to determine the impact of novel agents on microcirculatory flow and organ failure in patients with sepsis. We specifically focus this review on the central role and vital importance of the nitric oxide (NO) molecule in maintaining microcirculatory homeostasis and patency, especially when the microcirculation sustains an insult (as with sepsis). We also present the scientific rationale for clinical trials of exogenous NO administration to treat microcirculatory dysfunction and augment microcirculatory blood flow in early sepsis therapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rivas, Carol
AU  - Ramsay, Jean
AU  - Sadowski, Laura
AU  - Davidson, Leslie L
AU  - Dunnes, Danielle
AU  - Eldridge, Sandra
AU  - Hegarty, Kelsey
AU  - Taft, Angela
AU  - Feder, Gene
TI  - Advocacy Interventions to Reduce or Eliminate Violence and Promote the Physical and Psychosocial Well-Being of Women who Experience Intimate Partner Abuse: A Systematic Review
JO  - Campbell Systematic Reviews
JA  - Campbell Systematic Reviews
VL  - 12
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.4073/csr.2016.2
DO  - doi:10.4073/csr.2016.2
SP  - 1
EP  - 202
PY  - 2016
AB  - This Campbell systematic review assesses the effects of advocacy interventions on intimate partner violence and women's wellbeing. The review summarizes findings from 13 studies. Physical abuse: After one year, brief advocacy had no effect in two healthcare studies and one community study, but it reduced minor abuse in one antenatal care study. Another antenatal study showed reduced abuse immediately after brief advocacy, but women were also treated for depression, which may have affected results. Two studies provided weak evidence that intensive advocacy reduces physical abuse up to two years after the intervention. Sexual abuse was reported in four studies that found no effects. Emotional abuse: One antenatal care study reported reduced emotional abuse at 12 months after advocacy. Depression: Brief advocacy prevented depression in abused women attending healthcare services and pregnant women immediately after advocacy. Intensive advocacy did not reduce depression in shelter women followed up at 12 and 24 months. The moderate-to-low quality evidence came mostly from studies with a low risk of bias. Quality of life: Three trials of brief advocacy trials no benefit on quality of life. Intensive advocacy showed a weak benefit in two studies in domestic violence shelters/refuges, and a primary care study showed improved motivation to do daily tasks immediately after advocacy. Abstract BACKGROUND Intimate partner abuse is common worldwide, damaging the short- and long-term physical, mental, and emotional health of survivors and children. Advocacy may contribute to reducing abuse, empowering women to improve their situation by providing informal counselling and support for safety planning and increasing access to different services. Advocacy may be a stand-alone service, accepting referrals from healthcare providers, or part of a multi-component (and possibly multi-agency) intervention provided by service staff or others. OBJECTIVES To assess the effects of advocacy interventions within or outside healthcare settings in women who have experienced intimate partner abuse. SEARCH METHODS In April 2015, we searched CENTRAL, Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, and 10 other databases. We also searched WHO ICTRP, mRCT, and UK Clinical Research Network (UKCRN), and examined relevant websites and reference lists with forward citation tracking of included studies. For the original review we handsearched six key journals. We also contacted first authors of eligible papers and experts in the field. SELECTION CRITERIA Randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials comparing advocacy interventions for women with experience of intimate partner abuse versus no intervention or usual care (if advocacy was minimal and fewer than 20% of women received it). DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS Two review authors independently assessed risk of bias and undertook data extraction. We contacted authors for missing information needed to calculate statistics for the review and looked for adverse events. MAIN RESULTS We included 13 trials involving 2141 participants aged 15 to 65 years, frequently having low socioeconomic status. The studies were quite heterogeneous in terms of methodology, study processes and design, including with regard to the duration of follow-up (postintervention to three years), although this was not associated with differences in effect. The studies also had considerable clinical heterogeneity in relation to staff delivering advocacy; setting (community, shelter, antenatal, healthcare); advocacy intensity (from 30 minutes to 80 hours); and abuse severity. Three trials evaluated advocacy within multi-component interventions. Eleven measured some form of abuse (eight scales), six assessed quality of life (three scales), and six measured depression (three scales). Countries and ethnic groups varied (one or more minority ethnic groups in the USA or UK, and local populations in Hong Kong and Peru). Setting was associated with intensity and duration of advocacy. Risk of bias was high in five studies, moderate in five, and low in three. The quality of evidence (considering multiple factors such as risk of bias, study size, missing data) was moderate to low for brief advocacy and very low for intensive advocacy. Incidence of abuse Physical abuse Moderate quality pooled data from two healthcare studies (moderate risk of bias) and one community study (low risk of bias), all with 12-month follow-up data, showed no effect on physical abuse for brief (< 12 hours) advocacy interventions (standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.00, 95% confidence interval (CI) - 0.17 to 0.16; n = 558). One antenatal study (low risk of bias) showed an association between brief advocacy and reduced minor physical abuse at one year (mean difference (MD) change - 1.00, 95% CI - 1.82 to - 0.18; n = 110). An antenatal, multi-component study showed a greater likelihood of physical abuse ending (odds ratio (OR) 0.42, 95% CI 0.23 to 0.75) immediately after advocacy (number needed to treat (NNT) = 8); we cannot exclude impact from other components. Low to very low quality evidence from two intensive advocacy trials (12 hours plus duration) showed reduced severe physical abuse in women leaving a shelter at 24 months (OR 0.39, 95% CI 0.20 to 0.77; NNT = 8), but not at 12 or 36 months. Sexual abuse Meta-analysis of two studies (n = 239) showed no effect of advocacy on sexual abuse (SMD - 0.12, 95% CI - 0.37 to 0.14), agreeing with the change score (MD - 0.07, 95% CI - 0.30 to 0.16) from a third study and the OR (0.96, 95% CI 0.44 to 2.12) from a fourth antenatal, multi-component study. Emotional abuse One study in antenatal care, rated at low risk of bias, showed reduced emotional abuse at ≤ 12-month follow-up (MD (change score) - 4.24, 95% CI - 6.42 to - 2.06; n = 110). Psychosocial health Quality of life Meta-analysis of two studies (high risk of bias) showed intensive advocacy slightly improved overall quality of life of women recruited from shelters (MD 0.23, 95% CI 0.00 to 0.46; n = 343) at 12-month follow-up, with greater improvement in perceived physical quality of life from a primary care study (high risk of bias; MD 4.90, 95% CI 0.98 to 8.82) immediately postintervention. Depression Meta-analysis of two studies in healthcare settings, one at high risk of bias and one at moderate risk, showed that fewer women developed depression (OR 0.31, 95% CI 0.15 to 0.65; n = 149; NNT = 4) with brief advocacy. One study at high risk of bias reported a slight reduction in depression in pregnant women immediately after the intervention (OR 0.51, 95% CI 0.20 to 1.29; n = 103; NNT = 8). There was no evidence that intensive advocacy reduced depression at ≤ 12-month follow-up (MD - 0.14, 95% CI - 0.33 to 0.05; 3 studies; n = 446) or at two years (SMD ? 0.12, 95% CI ? 0.36 to 0.12; 1 study; n = 265). Adverse effects Two women died, one who was murdered by her partner and one who committed suicide. No evidence links either death to study participation. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS Results suggest some benefits from advocacy. However, most studies were underpowered. Clinical and methodological heterogeneity largely precluded pooling of trials. Therefore, there is uncertainty about the magnitude of benefit, the impact of abuse severity, and the setting. Based on the evidence reviewed, intensive advocacy may improve short-term quality of life and reduce physical abuse one to two years after the intervention for women recruited from domestic violence shelters or refuges. Brief advocacy may provide small short-term mental health benefits and reduce abuse, particularly in pregnant women and for less severe abuse. Plain language summary LIMITED EVIDENCE AND LIMITED EFFECTS OF ADVOCACY TO REDUCE INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE The Campbell review in brief Intensive advocacy may improve everyday life for women in domestic violence shelters/refuges and reduce physical abuse. There is no clear evidence that intensive advocacy reduces sexual, emotional, or overall abuse, or that it benefits women's mental health. It is unclear whether brief advocacy is effective. What is this review about? Partner abuse or domestic violence is common worldwide. It includes physical, emotional, and sexual abuse; threats; withholding money; causing injury; and long lasting physical and emotional health problems. Active support by trained people, which is called ?advocacy?, may help women make safety plans, deal with abuse, and access community resources. Advocacy may be a stand-alone service, accepting referrals from healthcare providers, or part of a multi-component, and possibly multi-agency, intervention. It may take place in the community, a shelter, or as part of antenatal or other healthcare, and vary in intensity from less than an hour to 80 hours. Advocacy may contribute to reducing abuse, empowering women to improve their situation by providing informal counselling and support for safety planning and increasing access to different services. What is the aim of this review? This Campbell systematic review assesses the effects of advocacy interventions on intimate partner violence and women's wellbeing. The review summarizes findings from 13 studies. What studies are included in this review? This review summarizes evidence from 13 clinical trials comparing advocacy for 1,241 abused women with no care or usual care. Most studies followed up on the women for at least a year. Does advocacy reduce intimate partner violence and improve women's wellbeing? Physical abuse: After one year, brief advocacy had no effect in two healthcare studies and one community study, but it reduced minor abuse in one antenatal care study. Another antenatal study showed reduced abuse immediately after brief advocacy, but women were also treated for depression, which may have affected results. Two studies provided weak evidence that intensive advocacy reduces physical abuse up to two years after the intervention. Sexual abuse was reported in four studies that found no effects. Emotional abuse: One antenatal care study reported reduced emotional abuse at 12 months after advocacy. Depression: Brief advocacy prevented depression in abused women attending healthcare services and pregnant women immediately after advocacy. Intensive advocacy did not reduce depression in shelter women followed up at 12 and 24 months. The moderate-to-low quality evidence came mostly from studies with a low risk of bias. Quality of life: Three trials of brief advocacy trials no benefit on quality of life. Intensive advocacy showed a weak benefit in two studies in domestic violence shelters/refuges, and a primary care study showed improved motivation to do daily tasks immediately after advocacy. What do the results mean? Intensive advocacy may improve everyday life for women in domestic violence shelters/refuges in the short term and reduce physical abuse one to two years after the intervention. There is no clear evidence that intensive advocacy reduces sexual, emotional, or overall abuse, or that it benefits women's mental health. It is unclear whether brief advocacy is effective, although it may provide short-term mental health benefits and reduce abuse, particularly in pregnant women and those suffering less severe abuse. Several studies summarised in this review are potentially biased because of weak study designs. There was little consistency between studies, with variations in the amount of advocacv given, the type of benefits measured, and the lengths of follow-up periods, making it hard to combine their results. So it is not possible to be certain how much or which type of advocacy interventions benefit women. How up to date is this review? The search for this review was updated in April 2015, and the review published in January 2016. What is the Campbell Collaboration? The Campbell Collaboration is an international, voluntary, non-profit research network that publishes systematic reviews. We summarise and evaluate the quality of evidence about programmes in social and behavioural sciences. Our aim is to help people make better choices and better policy decisions. About this summary This summary was prepared by Howard White (Campbell Collaboration) and is based on the Campbell Systematic Review 2016:02 ?Advocacy interventions to reduce or eliminate violence and promote the physical and psychosocial well-being of women who experience intimate partner abuse? by Carol Rivas, Jean Ramsay, Laura Sadowski, Leslie L Davidson, Danielle Dunne, Sandra Eldridge, Kelsey Hegarty, Angela Taft, Gene Feder. Anne Mellbye (R-BUP) designed the summary, which was edited and produced by Tanya Kristiansen (Campbell Collaboration).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Frøisland, Dag Helge
AU  - Graue, Marit
AU  - Markestad, Trond
AU  - Skrivarhaug, Torild
AU  - Wentzel-Larsen, Tore
AU  - Dahl-Jørgensen, Knut
TI  - Health-related quality of life among Norwegian children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes on intensive insulin treatment: a population-based study
JO  - Acta Paediatrica
JA  - Acta Paediatr
VL  - 102
IS  - 9
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/apa.12312
DO  - doi:10.1111/apa.12312
SP  - 889
EP  - 895
KW  - Adolescent
KW  - Diabetes mellitus type 1
KW  - Health-related quality of life
KW  - Insulin/administration & dosage
KW  - Metabolic control
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Aim To examine health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes on intensive insulin treatment. Methods All children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes above 8 years of age scheduled for follow-up at 21 paediatric departments in Norway, and one of their parents was invited to describe HRQOL by completing DISABKIDS questionnaires. HRQOL was related to sociodemographic factors (i.e. parental economy, education, marital status and to level of physical activity and disease characteristics, obtained from the Norwegian Childhood Diabetes Registry). Results Nine hundred and thirty seven (48%) and one of their parents responded. Mean duration of diabetes was 4.9 years (SD 3.3), 51% were girls, 56% used insulin pumps, and 44% used multiple insulin injections, predominantly of long-acting and rapid insulin analogues. Mean HbA1c was 8.5% (SD 1.3). Lower HRQOL scores were significantly associated with higher HbA1c, being a girl and experience of diabetes ketoacidosis. Mothers scored lower than fathers on total score and most subscales. No significant differences in scores were found between users of an insulin pump and multi-injection treatment. Conclusions Health-related quality of life was related to metabolic control and gender, but not to mode of intensified insulin treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nesic, O.
AU  - Svrakic, N.M.
AU  - Xu, G-Y.
AU  - McAdoo, D.
AU  - Westlund, K. N.
AU  - Hulsebosch, C. E.
AU  - Ye, Zeiming
AU  - Galante, A.
AU  - Soteropoulos, P.
AU  - Tolias, P.
AU  - Young, W.
AU  - Hart, R.P.
AU  - Perez-Polo, J.R.
TI  - DNA microarray analysis of the contused spinal cord: Effect of NMDA receptor inhibition
JO  - Journal of Neuroscience Research
JA  - J. Neurosci. Res.
VL  - 68
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jnr.10171
DO  - doi:10.1002/jnr.10171
SP  - 406
EP  - 423
KW  - spinal cord injury
KW  - NMDA receptor
KW  - MK-801
KW  - DNA microarray
KW  - Affymetrix
KW  - expression profile
PY  - 2002
AB  - Abstract Spinal cord injury (SCI)-induced neurodegeneration leads to irreversible and devastating motor and sensory dysfunction. Post-traumatic outcomes are determined by events occurring during the first 24 hours after SCI. An increase in extracellular glutamate concentration to neurotoxic levels is one of the earliest events after SCI. We used Affymetrix DNA oligonucleotide microarrays (with 1,322 DNA probes) analysis to measure gene expression in order to test the hypothesis that SCI-induced N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation triggers significant postinjury transcriptional changes. Here we report that SCI, 1 hour after trauma, induced change in mRNA levels of 165 genes and expression sequence tags (ESTs). SCI affected mRNA levels of those genes that regulate predominantly transcription factors, inflammation, cell survival, and membrane excitability. We also report that NMDA receptor inhibition (with -(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate [MK-801]) reversed the effect of SCI on about 50% of the SCI-affected mRNAs. Especially interesting is the finding that NMDA receptor activation participates in the up-regulation of inflammatory factors. Therefore, SCI-induced NMDA receptor activation is one of the dominant, early signals after trauma that leads to changes in mRNA levels of a number of genes relevant to recovery processes. The majority of MK-801 effects on the SCI-induced mRNA changes reported here are novel. Additionally, we found that the MK-801 treatment also changed the mRNA levels of 168 genes and ESTs that had not been affected by SCI alone, and that some of their gene products could have harmful effects on SCI outcome. ? 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gaudeul, Myriam
AU  - Till-Bottraud, Irène
TI  - Low selfing in a mass-flowering, endangered perennial, Eryngium alpinum L. (Apiaceae)
JO  - American Journal of Botany
JA  - Am. J. Bot.
VL  - 90
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.3732/ajb.90.5.716
DO  - doi:10.3732/ajb.90.5.716
SP  - 716
EP  - 723
KW  - Apiaceae
KW  - conservation
KW  - Eryngium alpinum
KW  - inbreeding depression
KW  - microsatellites
KW  - pollination
KW  - protandry
KW  - self-incompatibility
KW  - selfing rate
PY  - 2003
AB  - We investigated the reproductive ecology of an endangered alpine species, Eryngium alpinum L., to determine its selfing rate and to propose possible mechanisms that may shape its breeding system. Whereas pollinators' foraging behavior suggested a high potential for geitonogamy (70% of the flights occur within plants), microsatellite analyses of seed progenies demonstrated that plants are primarily outcrossing (outcrossing rate [tm] = 0.65, 0.96, and 1 in three populations). Given the relatively long pollen viability (at least 4?5 d) and the high number of simultaneously opened flowers on each plant, protandry is not sufficient to eliminate selfing. Second, controlled crosses demonstrated not only auto-fertility, but also partial self-incompatibility. Partial self-incompatibility is probably due to the competitive advantage of cross vs. self-pollen, and, together with protandry, could lead the species to selfing as a reproductive assurance. These results are encouraging for the maintenance of large populations. However, higher selfing was observed in a small population that could suffer inbreeding depression, as observed on experimentally selfed seeds. Thus, these populations should be carefully monitored. Finally, this study shows how molecular markers and field experiments may complement each other in our reaching a global understanding of mating patterns.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 53-85
TI  - Relationship stages
SN  - 9780470974155
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119207252.ch3
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119207252.ch3
SP  - 53-85
KW  - Key relationship
KW  - supplier-customer relationship
KW  - profitable management
KW  - multi-sourcing
PY  - 2003
AB  - Summary There is a clear hierarchy of key account relationships increasing in complexity and intimacy with the customer. Understanding where you are is crucial to adopting the right behaviour towards the customer. This chapter helps in understanding the nature of key relationships and the behaviour of companies involved in the profitable management of the business they represent. Five stages of key supplier/customer relationships have identified: To characterize the nature of the relationship from the point of view of either party, they are described as exploratory (precedes actual trading), basic, cooperative, interdependent and integrated. Relationships may develop progressively through each stage in turn, or they may not. They can also start at a mature stage in certain circumstances where multi-sourcing is inappropriate or they can remain at any given level indefinitely. The key features of the five types of relationship are summarized in this chapter. Both the key account manager and the supplier organization need to know what kind of relationship they have with each customer, and therefore what they can and cannot do with it.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Flohr, Thomas G.
AU  - Leng, Shuai
AU  - Yu, Lifeng
AU  - Allmendinger, Thomas
AU  - Bruder, Herbert
AU  - Petersilka, Martin
AU  - Eusemann, Christian D.
AU  - Stierstorfer, Karl
AU  - Schmidt, Bernhard
AU  - McCollough, Cynthia H.
TI  - Dual-source spiral CT with pitch up to 3.2 and 75 ms temporal resolution: Image reconstruction and assessment of image quality
JO  - Medical Physics
JA  - Med. Phys.
VL  - 36
IS  - 12
SN  - 9780470974155
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3259739
DO  - doi:10.1118/1.3259739
SP  - 5641
EP  - 5653
KW  - Computed tomography
KW  - Reconstruction
KW  - Spatial resolution
KW  - Dosimetry/exposure assessment
KW  - Computed radiography
KW  - Cardiac dynamics
KW  - cardiovascular system
KW  - computerised tomography
KW  - data acquisition
KW  - diagnostic radiography
KW  - dosimetry
KW  - electrocardiography
KW  - image reconstruction
KW  - image resolution
KW  - medical image processing
KW  - phantoms
KW  - dual source CT
KW  - multi-detector row CT
KW  - CT image reconstruction
KW  - CT image quality evaluation
KW  - cardiac CT
KW  - Medical imaging
KW  - Medical image reconstruction
KW  - Computed tomography
KW  - Heart
KW  - Image sensors
KW  - Medical image quality
KW  - Medical image artifacts
KW  - Medical image noise
KW  - Medical X-ray imaging
KW  - Image reconstruction
PY  - 2009
AB  - Purpose: To present the theory for image reconstruction of a high-pitch, high-temporal-resolution spiral scan mode for dual-source CT (DSCT) and evaluate its image quality and dose. Methods: With the use of two x-ray sources and two data acquisition systems, spiral CT exams having a nominal temporal resolution per image of up to one-quarter of the gantry rotation time can be acquired using pitch values up to 3.2. The scan field of view (SFOV) for this mode, however, is limited to the SFOV of the second detector as a maximum, depending on the pitch. Spatial and low contrast resolution, image uniformity and noise, CT number accuracy and linearity, and radiation dose were assessed using the ACR CT accreditation phantom, a 30 cm diameter cylindrical water phantom or a 32 cm diameter cylindrical PMMA CTDI phantom. Slice sensitivity profiles (SSPs) were measured for different nominal slice thicknesses, and an anthropomorphic phantom was used to assess image artifacts. Results were compared between single-source scans at and dual-source scans at . In addition, image quality and temporal resolution of an ECG-triggered version of the DSCT high-pitch spiral scan mode were evaluated with a moving coronary artery phantom, and radiation dose was assessed in comparison with other existing cardiac scan techniques. Results: No significant differences in quantitative measures of image quality were found between single-source scans at and dual-source scans at for spatial and low contrast resolution, CT number accuracy and linearity, SSPs, image uniformity, and noise. The pitch value had only a minor impact on radiation dose and image noise when the effective tube current time product (mA?s/pitch) was kept constant. However, while not severe, artifacts were found to be more prevalent for the dual-source scan mode when structures varied markedly along the axis, particularly for head scans. Images of the moving coronary artery phantom acquired with the ECG-triggered high-pitch scan mode were visually free from motion artifacts at heart rates of 60 and 70 bpm. However, image quality started to deteriorate for higher heart rates. At equivalent image quality, the ECG-triggered high-pitch scan mode demonstrated lower radiation dose than other cardiac scan techniques on the same DSCT equipment (25% and 60% dose reduction compared to ECG-triggered sequential step-and-shoot and ECG-gated spiral with x-ray pulsing). Conclusions: A high-pitch (up to), high-temporal-resolution (up to 75 ms) dual-source CT scan mode produced equivalent image quality relative to single-source scans using a more typical pitch value . The resultant reduction in the overall acquisition time may offer clinical advantage for cardiovascular, trauma, and pediatric CT applications. In addition, ECG-triggered high-pitch scanning may be useful as an alternative to ECG-triggered sequential scanning for patients with low to moderate heart rates up to 70 bpm, with the potential to scan the heart within one heart beat at reduced radiation dose.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Vogt, Henrik
AU  - Ulvestad, Elling
AU  - Eriksen, Thor Eirik
AU  - Getz, Linn
TI  - Getting personal: can systems medicine integrate scientific and humanistic conceptions of the patient?
JO  - Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice
JA  - J Eval Clin Pract
VL  - 20
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780470974155
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jep.12251
DO  - doi:10.1111/jep.12251
SP  - 942
EP  - 952
KW  - agency
KW  - biopsychosocial medicine
KW  - downward causation
KW  - emergence
KW  - experience
KW  - free will
KW  - general practice
KW  - generalism
KW  - holism
KW  - humanistic medicine
KW  - intentionality
KW  - medically unexplained symptoms
KW  - mind-body problem
KW  - multi-morbidity
KW  - narrative medicine
KW  - ontology
KW  - patient-centred medicine
KW  - personalized medicine
KW  - person-centred medicine
KW  - personhood
KW  - phenomenology
KW  - reductionism
KW  - root causes
KW  - synthesis
KW  - systems biology
KW  - systems medicine
KW  - systems psychiatry
KW  - teleology
KW  - the two cultures
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Rationale, aims and objectives The practicing doctor, and most obviously the primary care clinician who encounters the full complexity of patients, faces several fundamental but intrinsically related theoretical and practical challenges ? strongly actualized by so-called medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) and multi-morbidity. Systems medicine, which is the emerging application of systems biology to medicine and a merger of molecular biomedicine, systems theory and mathematical modelling, has recently been proposed as a primary care-centered strategy for medicine that promises to meet these challenges. Significantly, it has been proposed to do so in a way that at first glance may seem compatible with humanistic medicine. More specifically, it is promoted as an integrative, holistic, personalized and patient-centered approach. In this article, we ask whether and to what extent systems medicine can provide a comprehensive conceptual account of and approach to the patient and the root causes of health problems that can be reconciled with the concept of the patient as a person, which is an essential theoretical element in humanistic medicine. Methods We answer this question through a comparative analysis of the theories of primary care doctor Eric Cassell and systems biologist Denis Noble. Results and conclusions We argue that, although systems biological concepts, notably Noble's theory of biological relativity and downward causation, are highly relevant for understanding human beings and health problems, they are nevertheless insufficient in fully bridging the gap to humanistic medicine. Systems biologists are currently unable to conceptualize living wholes, and seem unable to account for meaning, value and symbolic interaction, which are central concepts in humanistic medicine, as constraints on human health. Accordingly, systems medicine as currently envisioned cannot be said to be integrative, holistic, personalized or patient-centered in a humanistic medical sense.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rosiny, Stephan
TI  - Power Sharing in Syria: Lessons from Lebanon's Taif Experience
JO  - Middle East Policy
VL  - 20
IS  - 3
SN  - 9780470974155
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/mepo.12031
DO  - doi:10.1111/mepo.12031
SP  - 41
EP  - 55
PY  - 2013
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 91-114
TI  - Manual therapies
SN  - 9781118661543
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119076452.ch6
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119076452.ch6
SP  - 91-114
KW  - accessory movements
KW  - joint mobilisations
KW  - joint movements
KW  - manual therapies
KW  - massage
KW  - physiotherapists
KW  - therapeutic handling techniques
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary Manual therapy is an umbrella term used for the therapeutic handling techniques covering numerous soft-tissue techniques including massage, passive movements and joint mobilisations. Joint mobilisations can be performed on peripheral and vertebral joints covering dorsoventral pressures on the facet joints of the spine, distraction or traction, accessory movements and passive movements. Massage reduces muscle spasm and can aid recovery of muscles following vigorous exercise, through the increase in circulation that will remove waste materials such as lactic acid. The mechanical effects of petrissage are to assist venous and lymphatic flow and mobilise connective tissue and skin. Different practitioners, chiropractors, osteopaths and physiotherapists use different techniques to move joints. Physiotherapists tend to use joint mobilisations that are passive rhythmical movements or oscillations that are used to treat stiffness or pain. After each technique, reassess how the joint is moving and use the most effective technique last.
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 179-207
TI  - Behavior and Emotional Conditions
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780813804361.ch8
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780813804361.ch8
SP  - 179-207
KW  - aggressive behavior, originating from anxiety
KW  - idiopathic aggression
KW  - homotoxicology formulas
KW  - blue-green algae - well being in humans
KW  - toxins, playing in aggression
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Aggression References Compulsive Disorders Inappropriate Urination Acral Lick Dermatitis (Ald or Lick Granuloma) Separation Anxiety Storm, Noise (Fireworks), and other Phobias
ER  - 

TI  - Factor I to Furin
SN  - 9783527300938
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527619764.ch6
DO  - doi:10.1002/9783527619764.ch6
KW  - complement proteins
KW  - protease domain
KW  - lipoprotein
KW  - arginine residues
KW  - cofactor proteins
PY  - 2013
ER  - 

C7  - pp. 509-535
TI  - Metabolic and Endocrine Diseases
SN  - 9780813820200
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780813804361.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780813804361.ch16
SP  - 509-535
KW  - Addison's disease, pathological reduction
KW  - N,N-Dimethylglycine (DMG)
KW  - Addison's disease, Yang deficiency in the spleen and kidney
KW  - hyperadrenocorticism - presence of cortisol
KW  - dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)
KW  - diabetes mellitus -inability to remove sugar from blood
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Addison's Disease References Hyperadrenalcorticism Cushing's Disease)/Pituitary-Dependant Hyperadrenocorticism (PDH) Diabetes Mellitus (Types 1 and 2) Diabetes Insipidus Hypothyroidism Hyperthyroidism
ER  - 
