
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Armstrong, Linlea
AU  - Jett, Kimberly
AU  - Birch, Patricia
AU  - Kendler, David L.
AU  - McKay, Heather
AU  - Tsang, Erica
AU  - Stevenson, David A.
AU  - Hanley, David A.
AU  - Egeli, Deetria
AU  - Burrows, Melonie
AU  - Friedman, J.M.
TI  - The generalized bone phenotype in children with neurofibromatosis 1: A sibling matched case–control study
JO  - American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A
JA  - Am. J. Med. Genet.
VL  - 161
IS  - 7
SN  - 1552-4825
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.a.36001
DO  - doi:10.1002/ajmg.a.36001
SP  - 1654
EP  - 1661
KW  - bone mineral
KW  - bone structure
KW  - bone strength
KW  - children
KW  - calcium
KW  - neurofibromatosis 1
KW  - osteopenia
KW  - osteoporosis
KW  - Ras pathway
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract People with neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) have low bone mineralization, but the natural history and pathogenesis are poorly understood. We performed a sibling-matched case?control study of bone mineral status, morphology, and metabolism. Eighteen children with NF1 without focal bony lesions were compared to unaffected siblings and local population controls. Bone mineral content at the lumbar spine and proximal femur (dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)) was lower in children with NF1; this difference persisted after adjusting for height and weight. Peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) of the distal tibia showed that trabecular density was more severely compromised than cortical. Peripheral QCT-derived estimates of bone strength and resistance to bending and stress were poorer among children with NF1 although there was no difference in fracture frequencies. There were no differences in the size or shape of bones after adjusting for height. Differences in markers of bone turnover between cases and controls were in the directions predicted by animal studies, but did not reach statistical significance. Average serum calcium concentration was higher (although within the normal range) in children with NF1; serum 25-OH vitamin D, and PTH levels did not differ significantly between cases and controls. Children with NF1 were less mature (assessed by pubertal stage) than unaffected siblings or population controls. Children with NF1 have a generalized difference of bone metabolism that predominantly affects trabecular bone. Effects of decreased neurofibromin on bone turnover, calcium homeostasis, and pubertal development may contribute to the differences in bone mineral content observed among people with NF1. ? 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Translational Research: Animal Models
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_30.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_30.x
SP  - 280
EP  - 307
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Koichi Akaike, 2 Shigeya Tanaka, 3 Shin-ichi Imamura, 1 Hideshi Tojo, 1 Motofumi Kasugai, 1 Hideyuki Matsukubo, 1 Tatsuro Yamaguchi, 1 Norihiko Sakoda, and 1 Akira Sano ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Field of Social and Behavioral Medicine, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; 2 Neurosurgery, Tanaka Neurosurgical Clinic, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ) Rationale: Previously we reported that hippocampal transection attenuated kainic acid (KA)?induced acute amygdalar seizures. (Akaike et.al, 2001, Imamura et. al., 2001, 2003). The prior studies suggested that such changes of epileptogenicity are related to neurotransmitters, whereas the biochemical mechanism including monoamine changes in this procedure remains obscure. In present study, we investigated the effect of hippocampal transection on KA?induced acute amygdalar seizures by evaluating intrahippocampal changes of monoamine. Methods: Sixteen male Wistar rats were prepared for this study. Stereotactic operation was performed under pentobarbital anesthesia (40 mg/kg i.p.). For microinjection, a stainless steel cannula with an inner needle guide was inserted into the left basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA). The rats were also divided into two groups: controls (without transection + KA injection, n = 8), TR group (with transection + KA injection, n = 8). Hippocampal transection was performed by using ? Neurotransecter; ? a flexible arc-shaped blade (diameter, 0.2 mm) made from shape memory alloy placed inside a straight guide cannula (diameter, 0.8 mm). Hippocampal transection was done according to our previous methods (Imamura et al., 2001). On the seventh days after operation, all rats received 1.0mg of KA solution. Two hours after KA injection, animals were decapitated and the ipsilateral hippocampus were removed, then separated to dorsal and ventral portions. Intrahippocampal monoamine including noradrenaline (NA), homovanillic acid (HVA), dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-hydroxy-indole acetic acid (5-HIAA) then were quantitatively measured using high performance liquid chromatography. Data were analyzed statistically between TR group and controls by using Student's t-test. Results: Comparing with the dorsal hippocampus, intrahippocampal monoamine in the ventral hippocampus were higher. According to 5-HT and 5-HIAA in TR group were higher in controls, especially in the ventral hippocampus. The rest were unaltered. Conclusions: The effect of hippocampal transection in acute amygdalar seizures is likely to be associated with the changes of 5HT and 5HIAA. (Supported by Grant?in-Aid for Encouragement of Young Scientists from the Ministry of Education, Sciences, and Culture of Japan.) 1,2 David J. Anschel, 2 Bernd Foerster, 3 Tetsuya Yuasa, 2,4 Helene Benveniste, 5 Zhong Zhong, 2 James Hainfeld, and 2 Avraham Dilmanian ( 1 Neurology, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY ; 2 Medical, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY ; 3 Engineering, University of Yamagata, Yamagata, Japan ; 4 Anesthesiology, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY ; and 5 Physics, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY ) Rationale: The use of radiosurgery to non-invasively treat epileptic foci is currently an active topic of clinical and preclinical research. Modalities such as proton beams, Gamma Knife and Cyber Knife have allowed for some recent advances over the traditional linear accelerator. A primary limitation of these techniques remains unwanted damage to brain and other tissues outside of the targeted area. We report the use of parallel x-ray microplanar beams in an ?interlaced? geometry to deliver a dose to a 3.8 x 3.8 x 3.8 mm3 region of the rat's cerebrum. It has been established that arrays of parallel, synchrotron-generated x-ray microplanar beams (microbeams) spare normal tissue, including the CNS. Interlaced microbeams have the advantage, over conventional beams, of a) sparing the normal CNS outside the target, and b) having an extremely sharp dose fall off at the edge of the target volume. Methods: A normal rat brain was focally irradiated in vivo to study the method's efficacy in precisely necrotizing brain tissue. The rat was positioned vertically using a plastic stereotactic frame, and was irradiated with two orthogonal arrays of 1 mm beam thickness and 1.36 mm beam spacing on-center. The interlaced volumes width was 3.8 mm and its height was 3.7 mm (i.e. 3 microplanar beams in the array). The rat was irradiated superior-to- inferior and laterally with 100 Gy in-beam incident dose although one microplanar beam in the superior-to-inferior irradiation inadvertently delivered a higher dose. The rat was imaged using a 9.4 T MRI at regular intervals. Results: The results show a gradually developing lesion at the site of the interlaced beams. The lesion began as a high T2 signal only, but advanced to include a central area of low T1 and T2 signal within 2 months. No lesion was observed in the other side of the brain which was exposed to non-interlaced microbeams only. Figure 1 shows a T2 weighted image taken 7 weeks post treatment. Conclusions: Interlaced MRT is an effective method to create focal brain microlesions. This technique may allow the future treatment of epileptic foci not accessible by surgical or more traditional radiosurgical means. (Supported by NIH NINDS grant NS43231, Office of Biological and Environmental Research, U.S. Department of Energy.) 1,2 Stephane Auvin, 1 Don Shin, 1 Justin Miyamoto, and 1,3 Raman Sankar ( 1 Pediatrics, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; 2 Pediatric Neurology, Lille University Hospital, Lille, France ; and 3 Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Prolonged febrile seizures and status epilepticus (SE) have been implicated as predisposing factors for temporal lobe epilepsy and/or hippocampal sclerosis. Inflammatory responses have been shown to have long term consequences on the developing brain following kainic acid. We have previously shown an age specific pattern of neuronal injury following lithium-pilocarpine (LiPC) induced SE. Here, we assess the contribution of varying degrees of inflammation in the immature rat brain. Methods: Rats were pretreated 16?20hr with 3mEq LiCl (i.p.), followed by 60mg/kg PC (s.c.) to induce SE at postnatal day 14 (P14). In order to induce an inflammatory response, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was injected i.p. at 10?g/kg or 50?g/kg, two hours prior to the induction of seizures. Rats were monitored for behavioural onset of SE and only those that reached at least stage 3 (modified Racine scale) were included. Four doses of LPS were studied: SE with saline injection (SE), SE+LPS 10?g/kg (SE+LPS10), SE+LPS 50?g/kg (SE+LPS50), and SE+LPS 250?g/kg (SE+LPS250). Rats were killed 24hr after the start of SE, and their brains cut at 8 microns for cell counts using H p < 0.05). No differences in counts were observed among the groups in CA3, hilus and dentate granule cells. Conclusions: We have previously demonstrated that prolonged LiPC SE in P14 rat pups does not result in substantial hippocampal neuronal injury beyond area CA1 and that a small population of these animals go on to exhibit spontaneous seizures. Inducing an inflammatory response does not seem to exacerbate injury in those resistant regions at this age, but does worsen the neuronal population, CA1, that is vulnerable in the lithium-pilocarpine model of SE. Furthermore, the level of inflammation can contribute to the amount of neuropathological sequelae. Whether the exacerbation of this injury has long term consequences is under investigation. (Supported by AEAC Association (SA), NS046516  and 2 Psychology, University of Prince Edward Island, Charlottetown, PE, Canada ) Rationale: We have previously reported on a seizure-like syndrome (NIS-L) in adult rats treated with low doses of kainate agonists during postnatal development. NIS-L is characterized by reproducible behavioural sequelae reminiscent of a stage 2 seizure, that manifests on exposure to a novel environment, such as the Morris Water Maze (MWM). Analysis of hippocampal cytoarchitecture in 17 month old rats expressing NIS-L has revealed hippocampal changes that resemble those observed in conventional animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), including mossy fiber sprouting (abnormal growth of dentate granule cell axons) in the inner molecular layer (IML) of the dentate gyrus and in the stratum oriens of area CA3. The purpose of the current study was to explore this abnormal axonal growth in younger animals and in greater detail. Methods: SD rats were injected daily with either saline (n = 23) or subconvulsive doses of the kainate agonist domoic acid (n = 25) from post-natal day 8?14. When the animals reached adulthood two-thirds of each treatment group where exposed to the MWM and the incidence of the NIS-L syndrome was recorded. Hippocampal anatomy was then analyzed using Timm's stain for mossy fiber sprouting (15 sections per animal). Sprouting was assessed using density analysis software in conjunction with a standard qualitative scale. Mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) was assessed in the IML of the dentate gyrus, as well as in the stratum oriens and stratum lucidum of area CA3. Separate analyses were conducted for the dorsal, mid and ventral portions of the hippocampus. Results: Results indicated that drug treated animals displayed increased IML MFS in the mid (F = 9.457; p = .004) and ventral (F = 8.063; p = .007) but not the dorsal (F = 1.632; p = .208) portions of the hippocampus. A significant increase in Timm's staining in treated animals was also detected in the stratum lucidum of area CA3 in the middle portion of the hippocampus (F = 7.715; p-.008). No significant increase in Timm's staining was detected in the stratum oriens of area CA3. Conclusions: These results confirm previous findings that perinatal injections of very low doses of kainate agonists produces increases in MFS in the IML of the dentate gyrus. Treated animals also display increased Timm's staining in the stratum lucidum of area CA3. However, unlike previous results in aged animals, no increase in MFS in the stratum oriens of area CA3 was detected in young adult animals. We conclude that treated animals display patterns of seizure-like behaviour and MFS that closely mimic those seen in clinical cases of TLE. (Supported by Natural Sciences and Egineering Research Council of Canada Atlantic Innovation Fund (ACCBR) Prince Edward Island Health Research Program, UPEI.) 1 Edward Bertram, 1 John Williamson, 1 Michael Johnson, and 2 Peter Edelbroek ( 1 Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ; and 2 Laboratory of Clinical Chemistry, Epilepsy Institute of the Netherlands (SEIN), Heemstede, Netherlands ) Rationale: Although there has been a consensus that the use of animal models with spontaneous seizures to identify new therapies may enhance the discovery process for new drugs, there are a number of technical issues that may limit or prevent the implementation of this approach. One of the greatest impediments is the maintenance of steady drug levels in the blood throughout the day over multiple days to ensure that there will be adequate levels in the system at the time the animals may have unpredictable spontaneous seizures. We describe a method for chronically administering antiepileptic drugs and measuing levels while the animals are on continuous video EEG monitoring. Methods: Adult male rats with chronic limbic epilepsy following an episode of limbic status epilepticus were implanted with bilateral bipolar hippocampal electrodes and an intraperitoneal catheter. Through a linked fluid swivel/electrical swivel the animals underwent continuous EEG monitoring while receiving a continuous infusion of the study antiepileptic (phenobarbital, phenytoin). Each dose was infused for two weeks, and at the end of this period blood levels were taken by collecting 25 microliters of tail blood on filter paper and measuring with a standardized mass spectrometry analysis. Results: To each drug there was a clear dose response effect with reduction in seizure frequency. The effect on seizure duration and behavior was more variable. The drugs demonstrated efficacy with blood levels that were comparable to established human therapeutic ranges. Conclusions: This early examination of a system for continuous administration of antiepileptic drugs in an animal model of chronic limbic epilepsy demonstrates the feasibility of prolonged drug infusions while performing continuous video EEG monitoring. These findings suggest that this approach may be a useful addition to the process of therapy discovery. The demonstration of efficacy with drug levels relevant to established human levels raises the possibility that effective drug levels found for experimental therapies in this model may provide treatment targets for humans. (Supported by NINDS grant NS 049617.) 1 Filipe M. Bonone, 1 Margareth R. Priel, 1 Alexandre V. Silva, 1 Jo?o N. Stavale, and 1 Esper A. Cavalheiro ( 1 Neurologia e Neurocirurgia, Universidade Federal de S?o Paulo/Escola Paulista de Medicina, S?o Paulo, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: There is significant controversy regarding whether the brain damage associated with recurrent seizure activity in temporal lobe epilepsy is progressive or not. Moreover, until the present moment, no study has addressed whether seizure-related brain damage contributes for increased neurodegeneration in long term epilepsy. In this study we investigated the morphological alterations associated with long term recurrent seizure activity in old rats with epilepsy. Methods: The pilocarpine model of epilepsy was induced in Wistar rats (60 days old) by the administration of pilocarpine hydrochloride (350 mg/kg). After 5 hours of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE), the animals received an injection of diazepam (5 mg/kg) in order to reduce mortality. Surviving rats were monitored 24h a day, until 15 months of life for quantification of seizure frequency. Animals were then sacrificed, and had their brains removed for histological examination using hematoxylin-eosin, congo red, cresil violet, periodic acid-schiff and Masson staning. Results: The mean frequency of seizures was of 4 to 5 per week. The time for first spontaneous seizure had not relationship with the frequency of seizures. The behavioral characteristics of seizures did not change with aging. The histological analysis showed no signal of additional brain degeneration in old rats with epilepsy, when compared with age-matched controls. Morphological alterations found in old rats with epilepsy do not differ from those reported in the literature for young rats. Conclusions: Our data suggest that recurrent seizure activity does not induce additional neurodegenerative processes in the old brain. (Supported by CNPq CAPES FAPESP.) 1,2 Stephane Auvin, 1,2 Beatrice Bourgois, 2 Natacha Porta, 1,2 Sylvie Joriot, 2 Regis Bordet, and 1,2 Louis Vallee ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Lille University Hospital, Lille, France ; and 2 Pharmacology Laboratory, EA1046, Lille School of Medicine, Lille, France ) Rationale: Fatty acids exert important modulatory effects on cellular excitability and receptor-mediated signalling pathways. Polyunsaturated fatty acids can modify neuron firing, neurotransmitter release and neuronal ionic currents. Linolenic acid (LA) is a omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acid. The aim of the study was to evaluate the anticonvulsive effect of daily supplementation with LA as compared to the ketogenic diet Methods: 4 week-old male Wistar rats were fed one of the following diets for 30 days: ketogenic diet (KD, n = 9), regular diet (Sham, n = 14), regular diet with daily palm oil supplementation (PO, C16:0, n = 10) or regular diet with daily LA supplementation (LA, C18:3w3, n = 12). Pentylenetetrazol threshold (PTZth) was used to assess the anticonvulsive effects of the diets. PTZ was dissolved to obtain a concentration of 10mg/kg and was infused into the tail-vain at the rate of 2ml/h. The dose used to obtain the seizure threshold (mg/kg) was derived from the time required to obtain the first bilateral forelimb myoclonus. Nutritional status was monitored by body composition evaluation using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (Lunar PIXImus densitometer) at the beginning of the dietary modifications and after the PTZth testing Results: Following 30 days with their respective diets, the PTZth (mean ± sem) were 43.2 ± 1.9 mg/kg in Sham group, 51.2 ± 1.8 mg/kg in KD group, 47 ± 2.3 mg/kg in PO group and 52.1 ± 2.3 mg/kg in LA group (p = 0.003). LA was found to be significantly different from the Sham (p = 0.006), but not from the KD (p = 0.86). KD was found to be significantly different from the Sham (p = 0.005), and PO was not different to Sham (p = 0.17) and KD (p = 0.113) groups. With respect to the nutritional status, the fat mass did not differ among group at inclusion (p = 0.328) and after PTZth (p = 0.06). Fat masses (% of total body weight) were at inclusion (mean ± sem) 12.4 ± 0.3% in Sham group, 12.1 ± 0.2% in KD group, 11.7 ± 0.3 in PO group and 12.3 ± 0.2 in LA group and were: 16.1 ± 0.6, 19,3 ± 1.2, 17.6 ± 0.7 and 16.8 ± 0.7, respectively, after PTZth Conclusions: Daily oral supplementation in rats with LA is as effective as KD using PTZ threshold as a test for anticonvulsive activity. There is no evidence that PO oral supplementation (saturated fatty acid) supports anticonvulsive activity. It was described that LA had anticonvulsive and neuroprotective proprieties using intravenous pre-treatment conditioning. Lipids are an important constituent of the neuronal membrane and can modify membrane composition, fluidity and/or lipid-dependant cell metabolism. Due to the high amount of fatty acids in the ketogenic diet, we suggest that similar underlying mechanisms may support all or part of the anticonvulsive mechanisms in both KD and LA supplementation. Further exploration is required to explain the anticonvulsive activity of LA (Supported by AEAC association.) 1 Claudia Brandt, and 1 Wolfgang Löscher ( 1 Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Pharmacy, School of Veterinary Medicine, Hannover, Germany ) Rationale: Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is one of the most common types of epilepsy in adult humans. TLE patients often show a characteristic pattern of neurodegeneration defined as hippocampus sclerosis. The most vulnerable region in the hippocampus seems to be the dentate hilus. The role of this neurodegeneration for the development of epilepsy is still discussed. It is described that the various types of neurons in the hilus differ in their susceptibility to neurodegeneration. The kindling model is a widely used model of TLE. If the kindling process is extended to more than 150 electrically induced generalized seizures, some of the rats develop spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) while in others SRS can not be detected. We recently showed that the total number of neurons in the hilus in these two subgroups of rats do not differ from each other nor from control rats. This seem to indicate that a loss of neurons in the hilus is not required for the development of SRS (Brandt et al., Epilepsy Res., 62; 135?56: 2004). However, there might be alterations in subpopulations of hilar neurons. In the present study we investigated whether there is a change of parvalbumin- (PV) and somatostatin- (SOM) expressing neurons in the hilus of rats with and without SRS. Methods: We therefore electrically stimulated female Wistar rats 235 times (range 174 to 283) over a period of about one year. Rats were video- and EEG-monitored every 8 to 10 weeks for 1 to 4 weeks to check if they developed SRS. At the end of the stimulation period we had a group of rats with SRS and one without SRS. We further had age-matched naive control rats, sham-kindled rats and conventionally-kindled rats. All rats were perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde, the brains were cut on a freezing microtome in 6 series of 40 ?m thick slices. The slices were immunhistochemically processed for PV and SOM. The total number of labeled neurons were counted in the hilus by an investigator unaware of the treatment groups. Results: The number of PV-labeled neurons was significantly higher in the hilus of rats with SRS compared to rats without SRS. The increased number of PV-labeled neurons in SRS rats can probably be linked to epileptogenesis and not to the high number of induced seizures since rats without SRS had an equal number of induced seizures. SOM-labeled neurons were significantly increased in the hilus in rats with and without SRS compared to control rats. In this case, the seizure activity itself is probably the cause of the increased number of SOM-labeled neurons. Conclusions: Thus, for both PV- and SOM-labeled GABAergic interneurons an increase and not a loss could be detected in epileptic rats. This increase of GABAergic neurons could be attributed either to the development of new neurons as an attempt to counteract the seizure activity or to an increase of the expression of PV and SOM in hilar neurons. 1 Russell J. Buono, 2 Gregory T. Golden, 3 John P. Dahl, 2 George G. Smith, 3 Candice L. Schwebel, 2 James F. Martin, 3 Ross MacDonald, 3 Falk W. Lohoff, 3 Wade H. Berrettini, and 3 Thomas N. Ferraro ( 1 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ; 2 Research Service, Veteran's Affairs Medical Center, Coatesville, PA ; and 3 Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping studies from our lab identified a 6.1 Mb segment of distal chromosome 1 that contains a gene (or genes) having a major influence on the difference in seizure susceptibility between C57BL/6 (B6) and DBA/2 (D2) mice. A random insertion gene transfer strategy involving a BAC DNA construct that contained four tandem B6-derived candidate genes from the critical interval (Kcnj9, Kcnj10, Igsf8 and Atp1a2) was used to test the hypothesis that a strain-specific variation in Kcnj10 is responsible for the QTL effect. Methods: Fertilized oocytes from the seizure-sensitive congenic strain B6.D2-Mtv7a/Ty-27d were injected with RPCI-23 157J4 BAC DNA and three independent founder lines of BAC-transgenic (TG) mice were generated. TG and wildtype (WT) progeny were phenotyped by measuring maxiaml electroshock seizure threshold (MEST). Allele-specific RT-PCR analysis documented brain expression of BAC-containing candidate genes. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to measure brain mRNA levels and western blots were used to quantify brain protein levels of the BAC derived genes in TG and WT mice. Results: Quantification of seizure susceptibility documented significantly higher maximal electroshock seizure thresholds in TG mice compared to WT littermates. Relative levels of Kcnj10, Kcnj9 and Atp1a2 mRNA were 1.0?2.0 fold higher in TG mice compared to WT. Western analysis revealed close correspondence between regional brain levels of Kcnj9 and Kcnj10 encoded proteins and their respective mRNAs although there was regional variability. Conclusions: Taken together, results suggest that one or more of the BAC derived genes contain a polymorphism that is responsible for the previously documented chromosome 1 seizure QTL (Szs1). Given the lack of major expression differences noted for any of the BAC derived genes studied and the 100% identity of amino acid sequence between B6 and D2 mice for Kcnj9, Igsf8 and Atp1a2, the non-synonymous (Thr262Ser) SNP in Kcnj10 remains the variation that is most likely to define the seizure related QTL Szs1. (Supported by NIH Grants R01NS40396 to RJB and R01NS40554 to TNF, University of Cincinnati Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania Center for Neurobiology and Behavior.) 1 Serge Chassagnon, and 2 Astrid Nehlig ( 1 Neurology, Universitary Hospital, Strasbourg, France ; and 2 INSERM U666, Strasbourg, France ) Rationale: Ictal SPECT is routinely used to locate the areas involved in generation of seizures in epileptic patients. Here, we studied patterns of ictal local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) during mild partial seizures in amygdala partially kindled rats. Methods: LCBF rates were measured by means of the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]iodoantipyrine technique at two different times and the two first stages of the kindling (3 rats per groups and 7 controls). The [14C]IAP infusion was started either at 15 s before the stimulation (early ictal) or simultaneously with the application of the stimulation (ictal). Six animals reached stage 0 seizure and six rats reached stage 1 during the LCBF experiment. LCBF values were determined bilaterally in 30 structures and underwent an analysis of variance and the Dunnett's t-test. Results: In stage 0 seizures, no significant changes in LCBF rates were observed. In the early ictal stage 1 group, LCBF rates increased ipsilaterally in the cingulate cortex and nucleus accumbens and bilaterally in the caudate nucleus. In the ictal stage 1 group, increases in LCBF rates occurred ipsilaterally in the piriform cortex, basolateral and central amygdala, dorsomedian thalamus, caudate nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata, bilaterally in nucleus accumbens, lateral septum, medial amygdala, and all hypothalamic nuclei. Conclusions: LCBF mapping of limited motionless seizures (stage 0) can be falsely negative. In return, mild seizures with oroalimentary automatisms can induce significant hyperperfusion in the epileptogenic zone as well as in distant structures potentially involved in the spreading and/or remote control of ictal discharges. 1,2 Nick Chernyy, 1,2 Nathalia Peixoto, 1,2 Sridhar Sunderam, 1,2 Jonathan P. Mason, 4 Steven J. Weinstein, 1,3 Steven J. Schiff, and 1,2 Bruce J. Gluckman ( 1 Krasnow Institute, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ; 2 Physics and Astronomy, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ; 3 Psychology, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ; and 4 Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Low frequency (<100Hz), low amplitude (<100mV/mm) non-pulsatile electric fields have been shown to modulate epileptiform activity both in vitro and in vivo. The use of such subthreshold modulatory fields enables simultaneous stimulation and measurement, and allows continuous feedback control. Because of their inherent large low frequency common mode signal, off-the-shelf amplifiers for recording are not appropriate for this application. Therefore, we designed suitable hardware ? electronics for recording, stimulation, and electrodes ? for chronic applications. Methods: We have designed and implemented a complete stimulation and recording system, which includes headstages, isolated stimulators, and custom made software for continuous recording and simultaneous stimulation. The headstage preamplifiers are micro-powered (total consumption of 15mW), and can be connected to up to eight electrodes (four differential channels), and contain a MEMS-based biaxial DC accelerometer. Stimulation electronics are optically isolated from the recording system, and powered by two AA batteries for up to two weeks at a time. Both stimulation and recording are controlled by relatively low cost multifunction DAC cards in a standard PC. Results: In performance tests, preamplifiers presented 4uV input referred noise. The frequency response (amplitude and phase) are shown in Figure 1A (upper curves). Depth electrode amplifiers were designed with a built-in lowpass filter. The system was tested in 6 chronically implanted animals (one week per animal), with reproducible and reliable results. Figure 1B shows typical examples of traces from the accelerometer, and EEG signals from two types of electrodes. Conclusions: We have demonstrated the performance and reliability of a recording and stimulation system designed for use with chronically implanted animals. This system is currently being used to assess the safety and efficacy of low frequency electrical stimulation, and will aid in the development of an adaptive epileptiform seizure control system. (Supported by NIH grants R01EB001507, K02MH01493, and R01MH50006.) 1 Simone M. Dustin, and 1 Carl E. Stafstrom ( 1 Neurology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI ) Rationale: The ketogenic diet (KD) is effective in many cases of medically refractory epilepsy in children, but the KD is difficult to administer and maintain. Studies of the KD mechanism have focused on the role of ketosis, with relatively little attention to the possible role of the type and quantity of fat. To determine whether fat type affects seizure frequency and long-term effects of seizures on learning and memory, we studied the effects of 3 different diets in juvenile rats with kainic acid (KA)-induced epilepsy. We tested the hypothesis that a diet enriched in polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) is associated with an antiepileptic effect, since PUFAs are necessary for optimal brain development and exert a stabilizing effect of excitatory membranes (Prostagland Leukotr Essen Fatty Acids 67:131, 2002). Methods: We compared a control diet with a diet enriched in PUFA, a classic KD, and a KD diet with PUFA as the main fat component. On P29?35, male rats were subjected to status epilepticus induced by KA 10 mg/kg i.p. After recovery, rats were assigned to a control diet (n = 6) or one of 3 experimental diets: PUFA (n = 8), KD (n = 7), or KD-PUFA (n = 7). Diets were administered isocalorically with calories restricted to 80?90% of the recommended daily requirement for rats. For the next 3 months, rats were monitored visually for approximately 100 hours in total, by trained observers. The number, characteristics, and severity of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) were recorded and compared among dietary treatments. Results: Spontaneous seizures were observed in 67% of animals on the control diet, 50% of the PUFA group, 29% of the KD, and 43% of the KD-PUFA group. Seizure frequency was significantly lower in the KD group (p = 0.038) compared to the other dietary groups. There were no significant differences between dietary groups in the percent of rats experiencing one class III-V spontaneous seizure (p = 0.503) or in seizure severity (p = 0.432). Conclusions: The classic KD afforded protection against spontaneous seizures in the KA model in juvenile rats. The PUFA diet alone or PUFAs added to the standard KD did not result in significant protection against seizures in this model. (Supported by The Charlie Foundation.) 1 Stefan Engström, 1 Michael M.J. McLean, 1 Robert R. Holcomb, and 1 Minhua Zhang ( 1 Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: The potential of using magnetic fields to control epilepctic episodes was evaluated in ICR mice. Methods: Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of NMDA (5 ?l, 200?400 ?g/kg) was used to trigger epileptic behavior in wild-type mice (ICR supplied by Charles River Laboratories, USA). The presence of the most severe of five types of behavior/outcomes was recorded for each mouse: wild running (WR), loss of righting (LOR), clonus (CLO), tonic hind-limb extension (THE), and death (DEA). Effects of exposure amplitude (0.44 mT, 2.6 mT, 6.6 mT nominal exposure), exposure duration (5 min, 15 min, 30 min and 60 min) and NMDA concentration (200, 300, and 400 ?g/kg) were examined in this study. Results: Increasing field strenght tends to shift the distribution of observed behavior to less severe outcomes, significantly different from controls at 6.6 mT (mean over the head) with p < 0.01 by contingency table analysis, see Figure. Figure: Distribution of seizure scores for controls (left bar in a pair) compared to field-exposed mice (right bar) for three field strengths (averaged over the head of the mouse). The numbers in parentheses indicate the number of animals in each group. The highest exposure level provided a shift not attributable to chance by a chi-square test for homogeniety on the resulting 6x2 contingency table. Increasing duration of exposure also produced the same trends in shifting the observed behavior. The two higher doses of NMDA worsened the observed behavior slightly, but it also became gradually more difficult to control the seizure with the magnetic field at higher doses of NMDA, with no apparent difference between controls and field-exposed mice at 400 ?g/kg. Conclusions: Magnetic fields lessened the severity of NMDA-induced seizure manifestations in the ICR mouse. Higher fields (up to an average effective exposure of the head of 8 mT) provided stronger protection, as did longer exposures (studied up to 60 min). (Supported by Holcomb Medical Research Institute.) 1 Thomas N. Ferraro, 2 Gregory T. Golden, 2 George G. Smith, 2 James F. Martin, 1 Ross MacDonald, 1 Ajay Gupta, 1 Jacqueline Scena, 1 John Picasso, 1 Candice Schwebel, 1 Falk W. Lohoff, 1 John P. Dahl, 1 Wade H. Berrettini, and 3 Russell J. Buono ( 1 Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ; 2 Research Service, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Coatesville, PA ; and 3 Neurology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: We are conducting a genetic mapping study in mice to identify loci that represent genes whose sequence variation mediates differences in responsiveness to the anticonvulsant effects of VPA. Ultimately, identification of such genes and their variation will lead to focused hypotheses regarding the pharmacogenetics of VPA in human epilepsy patients. Methods: A panel of eight common inbred strains of mice was screened for baseline seizure sensitivity by measuring maximal electroshock seizure thresholds (MEST). Strain-specific effects of VPA were characterized by dose response experiments (100?500 mg/kg, i.p.) in which the percentage increase of MEST over bsaeline was determined. BALB/cJ and 129X1/SvJ were chosen to generate an F2 intercross population (n = about 600) for genetic mapping because they have equivalent baseline MESTs but distinctive responses to VPA: BALB/cJ is relatively resistant and 129X1/SvJ is relatively sensitive to the ability of VPA to increase MEST. The ?broad sense? heritability of this effect is 0.7. F2 mice are injected with saline or VPA (200 mg/kg, i.p.) prior to MEST trials. Genome scans are underway in these two groups of mice utilizing standard microsatellite DNA markers at a resolution of approximately 15 cM Results: With a first pass genome scan approximately 75% complete, single point contingency analysis (Mapmaker QTX) has revealed a number of putative QTLs. Suggestive (less than 0.05) or significant (less than 0.0001) P-values were obtained for markers on chromosomes 1 (D1Mit64, D1Mit365), 4 (D4Mit251, D4Mit42), 6 (D6Mit123), 8 (D8Mit46), 9 (D9Mit311, D9Mit151), 15 (D15Mit13, D15Mit107), 18 (D18Mit186) and X (DXMit172) in the F2 cross pretreated with VPA. Putative QTLs on chromosomes 6 and 8 overlap with loci detected in the F2 cross pretreated with saline suggesting that they are seizure sensitivity QTLs and not specific for VPA response. Conclusions: VPA responsiveness in BALB/cJ and 129X1/SvJ mice is a complex trait that may be dissected using standard QTL mapping strategies. Preliminary data showing that these strains are also differentially sensitive to the anticonvulsant effects of phenytoin suggest the possibility that in mice, some genetic variation may influence responsiveness to multiple anticonvulsant drugs. (Supported by NS039516 (TNF).) 1 Huifang Li, 1 Alli Kraus, 2 Jie Wu, 1 John Huguenard, and 1 Robert S. Fisher ( 1 Neurology, Stanford, Stanford, CA ; and 2 Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute/St. Joseph's, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: We previously reported that Long Evans Hooded rats, treated early in life with AY9944, a cholesterol synthesis inhibitor (CSI model rats), had increased occurrence of spike-waves in EEG recordings, and that neurons acutely dissociated from reticular nuclei (nRt) of CSI model rat thalamus demonstrated decreased GABAA-receptor sensitivity to benzodiazepines (Wu at al., 2004). The present experiments were designed to investigate changes in the gamma-2 and alpha-1 subunits of the GABAA receptor in CSI model rats, as possible mechanisms of these changes. Methods: EEG recordings were made to analyze the occurrences of spike-waves in control and CSI model rats; Western blot, immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR techniques were performed to measure the levels of and signals for gamma-2 and alpha-1 subunits of the GABAA receptor in the reticular (nRt) and ventrobasal (VB) relay nuclei of thalamus, and in somatosensory cortex. Results: CSI model rats had significantly higher spike-wave scores, compared to control rats (control, n = 6: 0.54 ± 0.14 vs. CSI model rats, n = 5: 1.0 ± 0, p < 0.05), suggesting higher seizure susceptibility in the CSI model rats. Western blot results demonstrated GABAA receptor subunit specific alterations in thalamus and cortex. GABAA receptor gamma-2 subunit protein expression significantly decreased in CSI model thalamic nRt and VB nuclei (control, n = 6: 0.17 ± 0.02 vs. CSI model, n = 6: 0.11 ± 0.01, p < 0.05). This difference was not observed in somatosensory cortex (control, n = 6: 0.96 ± 0.15 vs. CSI model, n = 6: 0.92 ± 0.07, p = 0.8). Conversely, GABAA receptor subunit alpha-1 protein expression decreased in CSI model somatosensory cortex (control, n = 6: 1.32 ± 0.11 vs. CSI model cortex, n = 6: 0.83 ± 0.12, p < 0.05), but not in thalamic nRt and VB nuclei (control, n = 6: 0.5 ± 0.09 vs. CSI model, n = 6: 0.38 ± 0.06, p = 0.3). Immunohistochemistry results confirmed Western blot results and demonstrated that the decrease in GABAA subunits was not due to neuron loss in CSI model thalamus and cortex. Conclusions: The present results demonstrate that early life block of cholesterol synthesis produces region- and subunit-specific decreases in GABAA receptor gamma-2 and alpha-1 subunits in rat nRt and VB nuclei of thalamus and cortex, respectively. The physiological significance of the selective reductions in GABAA receptor subunits in thalamic nRt and VB nuclei and cortex remains to be determined. (Supported by Maslah Saul MD Chair, James and Carrie Anderson Research Fund, the Susan Horngren Fund for Epilepsy Research and NIH RO1 NS34774.) 1 Emma Gannan, 1 Leanne Stroud, 1 Terence J. O'Brien, and 2 Margaret J. Morris ( 1 The Department of Medicine, RMH, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia ; and 2 The Department of Pharmacology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: We have previously demonstrated that intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of NPY potently suppresses absence seizures in a model of genetic generalised epilepsy, Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats of Strasbourg (GAERS)1. Here we investigated the Y receptor subtype(s) on which NPY exerts this anti-absence effect. Methods: Cumulative duration of seizures was quantitated in adult male GAERS on 90-minute post-injection EEG recording in two experiments: (i) Post antagonists of Y1 - BIBP3226 (20 nmol, Boehringer Ingelheim), Y2 - BIIE0246 (20 nmol, Boehringer Ingelheim), Y5 - NPY5RA972 (20 nmol, Astra Zeneca) or vehicle followed by NPY (6 mmol) (n = 7). (ii) Post subtype selective agonists of Y1 (Leu31Pro34, 2.5 nmol,), Y2 (Gift of E Potter, Ac[Leu 28,31]NPY24?36 3 nmol,), Y5 receptors (Gift of A Beck-Sickinger, hPP(1-17), Ala(31), Aib(32)]NPY 3 nmol,) NPY (3 nmol) or vehicle. Results were analysed using ANOVA for repeated measures with planned comparisons (n = 7 for both studies). Results: GAERS spent 14% of time in seizures. NPY injection was still able to suppress seizures (vs. vehicle alone) following the Y1- (45.3% suppression) and Y5-antagonists (80.1% suppression) compared to following vehicle (all p < 0.05), but not following the Y2-antagonist (5.1% suppression, p = 0.46). Conversely, injection of the Y1 and Y5 selective agonists resulted in significantly less mean seizure suppression than NPY (37.4% and 53.9% vs. 83.2% suppression, p < 0.05) while the Y2 agonist had similar effects to NPY (62.3% suppression, p = 0.57). Food intake was not increased following injection of the Y2 agonist, unlike following NPY or the other Y-subtype agonists. Conclusions: These data provide evidence that Y2 receptors are more important than Y1 and Y5 receptors in mediating the effect of NPY to suppress absence seizures in a genetic rat model. Drugs acting on Y2 receptors may represent targets for novel drugs effective against genetic generalised epilepsies without resulting in appetite stimulation. (Supported by The Friends of The Royal Melbourne Hospital Neuroscience.) 1 Kevin J. Garvey, 1 Ryochi Kimura, 1,2 Jie Wu, 1 Marc Ellsworth, 1,2 Levi B. Good, and 1,2 David M. Treiman ( 1 Neurology Research, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ; and 2 Department of Bioengineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ ) Rationale: Status epilepticus (SE) is a dynamic state, with progressive changes in its underlying pathophysiology the longer it persists. A consequence of such changes is an increased refractoriness to treatment with antiepileptic drugs. The underlying mechanisms for this phenomenon are not well understood, but probably involve progressive impairment of GABA-mediated inhibition. Treiman et al (Epilepsy Res5:49?60, 1990) described a progressive sequence of EEG changes during experimental and clinical SE, and have suggested these EEG changes (Stages I-V) are a marker of the severity of SE. We tested the hypothesis that the later the EEG stage, the greater the impairment of GABA-mediated inhibition would be. Methods: SE was induced in P20-P28 male Sprague-Dawley rats with kainic acid (KA), 15 mg/kg IP. Continuous EEG recording from epidural screw electrodes was done from before injection to sacrifice at SE EEG Stage III (continuous ictal activity) or V Plus (continuous periodic epileptiform discharges overnight: approximately 20 hrs). Rats that were given KA but did not develop SE, were used as controls. Brains were rapidly removed at the time of sacrifice. Standard field recording methods in the CA1 region were then utilized to assess GABAergic function in 400 ?m transverse hippocampal slices prepared in cold artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Results: A single stimulus to the Schaffer collateral pathway induced a single field potential spike in slices obtained from control and Stage III rats, but multiple field potential spikes in slices obtained from Stage V rats. Tetanic stimulation (100 Hz, 20 trains) induced a robust ?-oscillation in the slices from control animals, but the ?-oscillation was diminished in the slices from Stage III rats and absent in slices from Stage V rats. Perfusion of diazepam (1 ?M) to the slice completely restored ?-oscillations in Stage III rats. Paired pulse stimulation with a 50 ms pulse interval induced a reduction of the second response (paired pulse inhibition) in slices from control rats, but not in slices from Stage III or Stage V rats. However, paired pulse stimulation with a 150 ms pulse interval induced a potentiation of the second response (paired pulse facilitation) in slices from control rats, which was enhanced in slices from Stage III and Stage V rats. Conclusions: These data demonstrate progressive impairment of GABAergic function during prolonged KA-induced SE in juvenile rats, which may help explain the progressive refractoriness to treatment. The mechanism of this progressive impairment is not yet understood. None-the-less, this observation has important implications for the management of prolonged SE in human patients. Further elucidation of the underlying mechanisms may lead to more effective treatment interventions in clinical SE. (Supported by Barrow Neurological Institute.) 1 Maciej Gasior, 1 Rebecca Tang, 1 Natalie White, and 1 Michael A. Rogawski ( 1 Epilepsy Research Section, NINDS/NIH, Bethesda, MD ) Rationale: Resective surgery is a validated approach for the treatment of pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), but it is an invasive approach accompanied by substantial risks. We have investigated local delivery of therapeutic agents as a less invasive and potentially safer approach to the treatment of intractable localization-related epilepsy. We use convection-enhanced delivery (CED), which provides for a controlled infusion to a restricted brain area and avoids the tissue damage produced by bolus infusion. In the present study we studied botulinum toxins A and B (BTX-A and BTX-B) with the CED approach. These toxins are highly potent, irreversible inhibitors of neurotransmitter release. We hypothesized that inhibition of the release of neurotransmitters involved in seizure generation, including glutamate, would confer an antiepileptic action against amygdala kindled seizures, a model of TLE. Methods: Rats were implanted with a combination guide cannula-stimulation electrode into the right basolateral amygdala. Daily stimulations continued until each rat was fully kindled (stage 5 seizures for at least five consecutive days). Then, the rats received CED infusions of BTX-A (1?10 ng) or BTX-B (3.2?10 ng) into the stimulation site over 20 min. Carbamazepine (0.1 mg) was studied for comparison. Each dose was delivered in a volume of 5 ?L at a rate of 0.25 ?L/min. Depth EEG (afterdischarge threshold and duration) and behavioral (seizure stage and duration) measures of amygdala-kindled seizures were recorded up to 64 d after the infusion. Results: Infusion of vehicle had no effect on the EEG or behavioral measures. In contrast, infusions of BTX-A resulted in a dose- and time-dependent protection against kindled seizures as reflected by significant increases in the afterdischarge threshold with accompanying decreases in the afterdischarge duration. These effects reached a maximum at 21 d post infusion and then gradually returned to baseline levels over the subsequent 40 days. Infusions of BTX-A had little effect on seizure stage and seizure duration. Similarly, infusions of BTX-B resulted in a significant protection against kindled seizures, with an elevation in the afterdischarge threshold lasting for 7 d; other measures of seizures (i.e. afterdischarge duration, seizure stage, and seizure duration) were affected for as long as 50 d post-infusion. Infusions of both toxins were well tolerated and were not associated with any immediate or long-term behavioral sequelae. In contrast to the long-lasting effects produced by the toxins, CED infusion of carbamazepine protected against seizures for only a few hours post-infusion. Conclusions: CED infusion of BTX-A and BTX-B produces long-lasting protection against seizures in the rat kindling model indicating that CED delivery of these toxins could be of utility in the treatment of TLE. (Supported by ERS/NINDS/NIH.) 1 Alexandra M. Gastens, 1 Claudia Brandt, and 1 Wolfgang Löscher ( 1 Department of Pharmacology, School of Veterinary Medicine, Hannover, Germany ) Rationale: The underlying pathomechanisms of epileptogenesis, the process leading to manifestation of epilepsy, are still not understood. An intriguing aim is to control acquired epilepsy by preventing epileptogenesis. Furthermore, the effects of epilepsy on cognitive function and behavior are of great interest because of their impact on patients' quality of life. Rats with spontaneous seizures developing after status epilepticus (SE) are known to exhibit behavioral alterations and therefore are a good tool to study the influence of antiepileptic drugs on behavior. Methods: The aim of the present study was to investigate if valproate (VPA) prevents development of epilepsy with spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) in a post-SE model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Furthermore we investigated whether VPA treatment reduces the behavioral alterations associated with epilepsy. For this purpose, female Sprague Dawley rats received a prolonged electrical stimulation of the basolateral amygdala which resulted in the development of a self-sustained SE. We limited SE duration to 4 h by diazepam and started VPA treatment immediately thereafter. VPA was administered as a bolus injection of 400 mg/kg and thereafter three times daily at 200 mg/kg for four weeks. A vehicle group was formed from rats treated with saline. Four weeks after drug treatment, the occurrence of SRS was monitored by continuous video/EEG-recording for one week. Five weeks after drug treatment the rats were tested in a battery of behavior tests including elevated plus maze, morris water maze, open field, rotarod, and a postseizure behavioral battery. Results: During prolonged treatment, VPA exerted anticonvulsant activity. However, four weeks after treatment, vehicle- and VPA-treated rats showed about the same number of SRS. These data indicate that VPA does not exert any anti-epileptogenic effect in the TLE model chosen for the present experiments. Furthermore VPA-treated rats showed the same cognitive deficits as the vehicle-treated group. The time spent on open arms at the elevated plus maze was significantly higher in the vehicle-group compared to VPA-treated rats and rats without epilepsy (control group). In the open field vehicle-treated rats spent significantly more time in the center and exhibited significantly higher locomotion and exploration behavior compared to the two other groups. In the postseizure behavioral battery, both, vehicle- and VPA-treated epileptic rats, exhibited a significantly higher score in the ?touch-response test? compared to the control group, whereas the VPA-treated rats were less reactive than vehicle-treated rats. Conclusions: These findings indicate that SE and SRS induce abnormal behavior as the rats are hyperexcitable, show higher locomotion and exploration, and show reduced anxiety-related behavior. VPA treatment counteracts these behavioral alterations. 1 Steve A. Gibbs, 1 Morris H. Scantlebury, 1 Pablo Lema, and 1 Lionel Carmant ( 1 Centre de Recherche de l?Hôpital Ste-Justine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Atypical febrile seizures have been associated with the mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome. However, its impact on brain development remains poorly understood. In adult patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and a history of atypical febrile seizures in early life, MRI volume and signal abnormalities have been reported. Recently, we have demonstrated that a localized cortical microgyrus predisposes immature rats to atypical hyperthermic seizures (HS) and chronic epilepsy. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of this atypical HS on brain development. Methods: Freeze lesions (focal microgyri) were induced in the right fronto-parietal cortex of rats on postnatal day (P)1. HS were then induced at P10 by exposure to moderately-heated dry air. To evaluate the impact of the HS on the cerebral asymmetry; right and left hemispheric, cortical, subcortical and hippocampal volumes were estimated at P22 and P80 using the Cavalieri method after having sectioned the brains and determined the area of each section using the public domain NIH Image program. The degree of hemispheric asymmetry was estimated by calculating a ratio between the volumes of the right and left structures. Controls were sham-operated and naïve rats with and without HS (non-lesioned controls) and rats that only received the lesion (lesioned controls). Results: At both ages, there was no difference in the volumes between the non-lesion controls therefore these results were pooled. At P22, the ratio of hemispheric volumes in lesioned rats with HS (0.960 ± 0.037) was significantly smaller than that observed in non-lesioned controls (1.007 ± 0.008, p < 0.02). When the hemispheres were divided into cortical and subcortical volumes, asymmetry was only seen in the cortex (0.947 ± 0.049 vs. 1.018 ± 0.012, p < 0.01). At P80, similar results were obtained only this time all three ratios, hemispheric, cortical and subcortical, in lesioned rats with HS were significantly smaller than those obtained in non-lesioned controls. When the ratios of hippocampal volumes in lesioned rats with HS were compared at P22 (0.948 ± 0.070) and P80 (0.902 ± 0.075) they were both significantly smaller than non-lesioned controls ratios (P22: 1.027 ± 0.083, p < 0.02 and P80: 0.987 ± 0.070, p < 0.05). Conclusions: Our results show a progressive hemispheric asymmetry including the hippocampus in lesioned rats with HS. This is in line with studies of volume and signal abnormalities in humans. Ongoing studies will let us determine the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. (Supported by the Hospital for Sick Children Foundation (LC), the Ste-Justine Hospital Foundation (LC, SAG), a CIHR MD/PhD scholarship (SAG) and a CIHR/Epilepsy Canada post-doctoral scholarship (MHS).) 1 Heidi L. Grabenstatter, and 1 F. Edward Dudek ( 1 Department of Biomedical Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO ) Rationale: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) have traditionally been tested on acute seizures, but animal models of chronic epilepsy with spontaneous seizures may be more useful for developing new drugs to treat the pharmacoresistant population. Recent research suggests that these models can be used efficiently for studying the effects of AEDs on epileptic seizures. A study from our group (Grabenstatter et. al, 2005) used a repeated-measures cross-over protocol in rats with kainate-induced epilepsy, and showed that topiramate reduced seizure frequency in a dose-dependent manner. The purpose of the present experiment was to evaluate how the widely used AED carbamazepine depressed spontaneous seizures in rats with kainate-induced epilepsy. Methods: Kainic acid was administered in repeated, low doses (5 mg/kg) every hour until each male Sprague-Dawley rat experienced convulsive status epilepticus for >3 h. Focal field-potential recordings in freely-behaving rats (n = 8) receiving 30 mg/kg carbamazepine or vehicle (20% (2-Hydroxypropyl)-?-cyclodextrin) were used to assess the effects of AED on spontaneous seizures using a repeated-measures, cross-over protocol. Results: Spontaneous seizure frequency was significantly suppressed by 78.44% (p < 0.0001) after administration of 30 mg/kg carbamazepine. The same dose did not affect seizure duration. Convulsive seizures were reduced by 70.27% (p < 0.0001). Nonconvulsive seizures were also reduced, but only by 47.31% (p = 0.0947). Conclusions: Carbamazepine (30 mg/kg) preferentially reduced convulsive seizures in spontaneously seizing rats with kainate-induced epilepsy. These data demonstrate that use of animal models with spontaneous seizures can provide valuable information about AEDs when implemented with EEG and video-monitoring. Carbamazepine elicited similar effects on convulsive and nonconvulsive seizures in rats with kainate-induced epilepsy as is observed clinically in patients with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (i.e., nonconvulsive seizures were ineffectively treated). (Supported by Epilepsy Foundation of America.) 1 James G. Heida, and 1 Quentin J. Pittman ( 1 Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Seizures in both humans and animals are often associated with significant alterations in body temperature. These alterations may influence degenerative processes within the brain. We tested the hypothesis that alterations in body temperature affect neurodegeneration in commonly used animal models of seizures and status epilepticus. Methods: Adult male rats (n = 38) weighing between 350?450 grams were used as subjects. The four seizure models used were pentylenetetrazol (PTZ, 40mg/kg i.p.), pilocarpine (PILO, 350mg/kg i.p.), kainic acid (KA, 15mg/kg i.p.), and sustained amygdala stimulation (SAS, 30min electrical stimulation of the left basolateral amygdala). Animals were randomly assigned to the 4 different seizure groups (n = 8/group) and one control (n = 6). Five animals from each group were equipped with body temperature recording devices (SubCue(tm), Calgary Ab Canada). SAS animals had bipolar stimulating/recording electrodes placed bilaterally in the basolateral amygdalae. Body temperature, in all groups, was recorded at 5 min intervals. In addition the SAS group had EEG recorded before, during, and after seizure induction. Twenty-four hours later animals were sacrificed and processed for Fluoro-Jade histochemistry, as a means to identify degenerating neurons. Neurodegeneration was assessed by a trained observer, blinded to experimental conditions. Results: All models were associated with significant changes in body temperature after seizure induction. Robust hypothermic responses were observed in the PTZ (low = - 1.55 ± 0.11 °C, mean ± SEM compared to baseline p < 0.05) and PILO (low = - 3.39 ± 0.42 °C, p < 0.01). The KA group showed a predominately hyperthermic response (max =+ 1.17 ± 0.43 °C, p < 0.05), the SAS group also showed a significant hyperthermic component (max =+ 1.67 ± 0.36 °C, p < 0.05). After 24 hrs neurodegeneration was greatest in the KA group and SAS groups compared to PILO, PTZ, and saline treated animals. These changes were confined to limbic regions including the basolateral and central amygdaloid nuclei, piriform cortex, and mediodorsal thalamus (KA group p < 0.05, ANOVA, LSD post hoc compared to PILO, PTZ and Saline). In addition the SAS group had significantly more damage in the central amygdala compared to the PILO group (p < 0.05, ANOVA, LSD post hoc). Conclusions: We conclude that increases in body temperature are associated with differences in neurodegeneration between seizure models. Minimizing these changes could eliminate some of the variations observed between models. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Yinghui Hu, 1 Sabita Bandyopadhyay, 2 Ingrid Lund, 1 David H. Farb, 2 Amy R. Brooks-Kayal, and 1 Shelley J. Russek ( 1 Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA ; and 2 Division of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Regulated expression of type A GABA receptor (GABA-AR) subunit genes plays a critical role in neuronal maturation, synaptogenesis, and has been implicated in a variety of neurological diseases. Changes in expression of α subunit genes (GABRA) have been observed in models of TLE. The kind of α subunit influences sensitivity of GABA-AR to GABA and to allosteric modulators such as Zinc, barbiturates, and benzodiazepines. Understanding genetic regulation behind such changes will lead to a better understanding of the mechanisms controlling GABA-AR function and have the promise of providing potential new therapeutic tools for the prevention or cure of a variety of neurological disorders. We have focused on developing an understanding of GABRA1 regulation whose promoter activity decreases in animal models of disease, including pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) and progesterone withdrawal. Methods: We have used transient transfection of primary hippocampal neurons to determine functional properties of DNA binding sites in GABRA1 and their specific interactions with the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB). Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) was used to relate findings to the occupation of endogenous GABRA1 by activator and repressor proteins both in cultured neurons and in vivo in the pilocarpine model of TLE. Results: PMA stimulation of primary cultured neurons increases GABA-AR α1 subunit mRNA levels and GABRA1 promoter activity through a PKC dependent and MAPK independent pathway. Increased GABA-AR α1 subunit mRNA levels are accompanied by increased binding of phospho-CREB to endogenous GABRA1. Overexpression of wildtype CREB increases GABRA1 activity while overexpression of a mutant form (M-CREB) is without effect. A 2bp mutation in the CRE site blocks the response to PMA and to CREB-mediated increases in activity. A mutant form of CREB (K-CREB) that has lost its ability to bind fails to increase activity. Overexpression of CREB related isoforms ATF4 and ICER markedly inhibit GABRA1. These observations are the first to identify a transcriptional mechanism that could contribute to downregulation of GABRA1 gene expression in response to cell signals. Pilocarpine-induced SE increases CREB and p-CREB association with the endogenous GABRA1 promoter in dentate gyrus 24 hours after SE. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that the CREB binding site in human GABRA1 is functional and that it can bind CREB family members. Repression of transcription through heterodimers of CREB/ICER and homodimers of ATF4 suggest a new mechanism of GABRA1 gene expression that may be operative in neurological diseases such as temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by NIH NS42363-01 to ABK and SJR.) 1 Daniel Roberts, 1 Sabita Bandyopadhyay, 2 Ingrid Lund, 2 Yogendra Raol, 2 Amy R. Brooks-Kayal, and 1 Shelley J. Russek ( 1 Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA ; and 2 Division of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Functional changes in the properties of ?-aminobutyric acid type A receptors (GABA-ARs) occurring in the dentate gyrus after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) are accompanied by changes in the mRNA levels of certain GABA-AR subunits, including those specific to α4. Because receptors containing α4 are believed to make up the majority of extrasynaptic GABA-ARs, it has been suggested that an increase in their expression could alter the relationship between tonic and phasic inhibition. Similar changes in GABA-AR function and gene expression are also seen in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients suggesting that altered GABA-AR subunit composition may at least in part contribute to the disease process. In order to understand the changes responsible for altered GABA-AR function, we have studied the binding property and transcriptional activity of the α4 gene (GABRA4) both in primary cultured neurons and in vivo. Methods: Bioinformatics was first used to identify potential DNA binding sites by comparing GABRs whose activity is upregulated in response to SE to those downregulated. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) was then used to determine occupancy of GABRA4 consensus DNA binding sites in vivo using slices of adult rat dentate granule tissue isolated from pilocarpine-treated rats and promoter function was examined using reporter assays. Results: Endogenous GABRA4 is bound by early growth response factor 3 (Egr3) 24 hours after induction of SE. Increased binding is accompanied by increases in Egr3 proteins and α4 and Egr3 mRNAs suggesting increased synthesis of Egr3 contributes at least in part to sustained response of GABRA4 to SE. To investigate a potential mechanism for Egr3 up-regulation in vivo, hippocampal neurons were exposed to phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) in the presence and absence of specific antagonists (U0126 and calphostin C). Changes in GABRA4 mRNAs were monitored using real-time PCR. ChIP performed in parallel demonstrates that increases in α4 mRNA levels after MAPK/PKC activation are accompanied by increased binding of Egr3 to endogenous GABRA4. Functional studies in hippocampal neurons show that over-expression of Egr3 up-regulates promoter activity through the Egr3 binding site and that Egr3 dominant negatives prevent increased activity in response to PMA. Egr3 knock-out mice also display about 50% less GABRA4 mRNAs (with no change in α1). Conclusions: Our findings support a role for Egr3 as a major regulator of GABRA4 in neurons and provide the foundation for future studies aimed at determining the impact of the Egr3 signaling pathway to the etiology and treatment of temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by NIH NS42363-01 to ABK and SJR.) 1 Shin-ichi Imamura, 2 Shigeya Tanaka, 3 Koichi Akaike, 4 Hideshi Tojo, 3 Norihiko Sakoda, 3 Tatsuro Yamaguchi, 3 Motofumi Kasugai, 3 Hideyuki Matsukubo, and 3 Akira Sano ( 1 Neurosurgery, Kagoshima University, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; 2 Neurosurgery, Tanaka Neurosurgical Clinic, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; 3 Neuropsychiatry, Kagoshima University, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; and 4 Neurosurgery, Himawari Hospital, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ) Rationale: Previous studies indicated that the perirhinal cortex (PRC) is important for secondary generalization of amygdalar seizures (Yamada 1993, Imamura 1998). However, the exact pathway from PRC to sensorimotor cortex (SMC) remains elusive. An anatomic tracing study suggested that a pathway from PRC to SMC exists in the white matter adjacent to caudate nuclei (McIntyre, 1996). We named this site the ?anterior pericaudate white matter (APWM)?. In this study, we investigated the physiologic role of the APWM in secondary generalization of kanic acid (KA)-induced amygdalar seizures in rats. Methods: Twelve male Wistar rats were used in the experiment. All received stereotactic implantation of electrodes in the left amygdala (LA), left dorsal hippocampus (LH), and left sensorimotor cortex (LCx). A cannula was also inserted into the LA for the preparation of KA injection. The APWM was leisioned stereotactically in 6 rats (lesioned group) and the remaining 6 rats served as controls. All rats received KA injection (1.0 microg) into the LA to provocate KA-induced amygdalar seizures, and electroclinical observation was made for 6 h. The electroencephalographic data was statistically analyzed using Student t-test. Results: Stereotyped KA-induced amygdalar seizures appeared in all rats after 15 to 20 min. In the controls, secondary generalization was observed behaviorally and apparent propagation to the LCx was observed on the electroencephalogram after 1 h. Such changes was further aggravated after 2 h and 6 h. In contrast, statistical analysis revealed that seizure propagation to the LCx was lower electroencepholographically and seizure manifestation was less apparant in the lesioned group after 1 h, 2 h and 6 h. In LA and LH, there were no statistical electroencephalographic changes between controls and lesioned group. Conclusions: It is likely that the APWM is an important pathway associated with secondary generalization of KA-induced amygdalar seizures in rats. 1 John R. Ives, 2 Roberto Poma, and 2 Parent M. Joane ( 1 Department of Clinical Neuroscience, University of Western Ontario/London Health Sciences Centre, London, ON, Canada ; and 2 Clinical Studies, Ontario Veterinary College/Unversity of Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada ) Rationale: Recording the EEG in dogs with epilepsy has always been difficult as the only suitable electrode available was the needle electrode (NE). The NE were easily dislodged, produced spontaneous artifact, had high impedances thus it was not possible to maintain viability of the NE for long periods of time. The NE were rigid electrodes and not conducive to long-term EEG monitoring (LTM). Epilepsy in dogs (4?5%) is more prevalent than in humans (1?2%). Epilepsy in dogs is also naturally occuring with similar clinical presentations and classifications. Therefore, being able to more easily and reliably record the EEG in dogs may provide better access to a naturally occuring epilepsy model for investigating new and established treatment methodologies. Methods: Using a new subdermal wire electrode (SWE) that was originally developed for use with patients in the neuro ICU (1), the difficulties and limitations of recording the EEG in dogs has been made easier with improved EEG quality and LTM potential. The SWE consist of multi-stranded, pure silver wire with a Teflon coat. It is placed using a 23 gauge hypodermic needle. The SWE is very similar to the original chronic sphenoidal electrode (2,3) developed for LTM in patients with epilepsy. By also including a very small, light-weight connector system, the recording electrodes and harness can be easily fixed on the scalp/collar of the dog to permit LTM by cable, RF or ambulatory methodology. Results: The SWE records with a <5KΩ impedance, is easily/quickly placed, and has high frequency as well as DC capability. The SWE records a high quality EEG and has significantly lower artifact during normal movements compared to the NE. The small size, low inertia and low profile of the SWE lends itself to LTM procedures. The SWE can also be used to record the animal's EKG. The SWE is MRI, CT, and rTMS compatible. Conclusions: A new subdermal wire electrode has been used to record the EEG in dogs with epilepsy. The SWE is superior in all aspects to the traditional needle electrode. The SWE has lower impedance, less spontaneous artifact and can record down to DC. In conjunction with a dedicated, light-weight connector, the potential to record the EEG from the dog in a similar manner as per LTM in humans is now possible. The SWE and its ability to record EEG in dogs opens up access to a natural occuring animal epilepsy model in the canine population. 1 Ives JR. New chronic EEG electrode for CCU/ICU monitoring. J. Clin. Neurophysiol. 2005; 22:119?123. 2 Ives JR and Gloor P. New sphenoidal electrode assembly to permit long-term monitoring of ambulatory patients. Electroenceph Clin Neuropohysiol 1977; 42:575?580. 3 Ives JR and Gloor P. Update: chronic sphenoidal electrode. Electroenceph Clin Neuropohysiol 1978; 44:789?790. (Supported by Department of Clinical Studies, Ontario Veterinary College, University of Guelph.) 1 Bianca Jupp, 2 David Binns, 3 John Willams, 2 Rod Hicks, and 1 Terrence J. O'Brien ( 1 Medicine, Royal Melbourne Hospital, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, Australia ; 2 Centre for Molecular Imaging, Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute, East Melbourne, VIC, Australia ; and 3 Howard Florey Institute, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, Australia ) Rationale: Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) commonly show prominent imaging abnormalities in flurodeoxyglycose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). The underlying mechanisms responsible for these abnormalities are largely unknown. The kainic acid rat model of TLE demonstrates many of the pathophysiological characteristics of TLE including severe cell loss and synaptic reorganization in the hippocampus resembling hippocampal sclerosis. The present study aimed to determine if the FDG-PET abnormalities seen in TLE patients also developed in this model. Methods: Eight male wistar rats were implanted with recording electrodes into the left amygdala one week prior to the induction of status epilepticus (SE n = 4, control n = 4). SE was induced by hourly injections of kainic acid (5mg/kg i.p.) until continuous seizures were observed by EEG. SE continued for 4 hours before termination by injection of diazepam (4mg/kg). Serial FDG-PET scans were acquired 24 hours, two, four and six weeks post SE. The development of spontaneous recurrent seizures in each animal was confirmed prior to the scans at four and six weeks. Results: FDG-PET demonstrated a distinct decrease in cerebral glucose metabolism 24 hours post SE (31% reduction). This hypometabolism persisted for the following five weeks (2 weeks 32%, 4 weeks 32%, 6 weeks 26%). The degree of hypometabolism did not appear to be affected by the onset of spontaneous recurrent seizures. This persistent hypometabolism was not seen in control animals (p < 0.05, repeated measures ANOVA). Conclusions: Kainic acid induced SE results in the development of persistent cerebral hypometabolism. This hypometabolism develops before and remains constant after the onset of spontaneous recurrent seizures. This indicates that the change in glucose utilization seen in this model is related to the process of epileptogenesis rather than being a secondary effect of recurrent seizures. These findings make it possible to conduct an investigation of the pathophysiological processes underlying changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in TLE utilizing this model. 1 Stanislav L. Karsten, 1,2 Anatol Bragin, 1 J.D.V. Ruidera, 1 Lauren T. Gehman, 1 Daniel H. Geschwind, 1,2 Charles L. Wilson, and 1,2,3 Jerome Engel ( 1 Neurology, UCLA ; 2 Brain Research Institute ; and 3 Neurobiology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: To identify genes whose expression is altered due to recurrent spontaneous seizures, cDNA expression patterns were analyzed in the dentate gyri of the kainic acid (KA) rat model of chronic epilepsy using a combination of high density microarrays and screening in situ hybridizations. Methods: Experiments were carried out on 16 wistar male rats after intrahippocampal KA injection. To exclude the effect of KA injection and associated tissue changes, which would confound results, RNA profiles were assayed in two groups of animals: experimental group consisted of 8 rats that had spontaneous seizures for at least 11 months (SZ) and the control group of 8 rats that had similar treatment but did not develop seizure activity (non-SZ). The comparisons were performed between the area of dentate gyri adjacent to the KA lesion and control symmetrical contralateral side. The Rat Microarray (20,000 genes; Agilent Technologies) and the CodeLink Rat Whole Genome array (34,000 genes; GE Healthcare) were used to identify the expression changes. cRNA synthesis, hybridization and scanning were performed according to manufacturer's protocols. After the local background correction, lowess normalizations were carried out in all distinct pair wise comparisons and ratios were generated. The genes exceeding 1.4-fold change and with p < 0.05 were selected as regulated. Gene expression changes were confirmed in a subset of genes using in situ hybridizations with coronal brain sections from at least 3 animals of each phenotype. Results: We detected a number of genes differentially regulated in dentate gyri characterized by chronic seizure activity and confirmed our findings using in situ hybridization. 22% of identified genes were previously implicated in seizure- or epileptogenesis (http://pubmatrix.grc.nia.nih.gov/). To understand the biological significance of the overall changes in gene expression, identified SZ-specific genes were categorized using EASE (http://apps1.niaid.nih.gov/). Only the genes of immune response showed significant enrichment in SZ-rats based on their overall representation on the array (EASE score <0.001). There was no significant overrepresentation of genes related to NMDA, GABA receptors or genes related to different ion channels. To better understand the relevance of our current findings with respect to the human disease selected genes are being analyzed in human biopsy specimens from patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Conclusions: Significant changes related to seizure genesis at the level of gene expression are not necessarily related to the electrophysiological changes at the neuronal level. This contradicts the existing data indicating the importance of neuron discharges in seizure initiation and requires further studies at the cellular and protein levels. (Supported by NIH NS-33310.) 1 Motofumi Kasugai, 1 Koichi Akaike, 2 Shin-ichi Imamura, 1 Hideshi Tojo, 1 Hideyuki Matsukubo, 3 Shigeya Tanaka, and 1 Akira Sano ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Field of Social and Behavioral Medicine, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; 2 Department of Neurosurgery, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ; and 3 Neurosurgery, Tanaka Neurosurgical Clinic, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, Japan ) Rationale: Previous studies described that mice in different strains show different seizure susceptibility to systemic administration of the kainic acid (KA). Limbic seizures in mice induced by KA microinjection, however, remain obscure. In the present study, we investigated seizures following microinjection of the KA into the amygdala in mice with different strains. Methods: Twelve mice with two strains (C57BL/6 (n = 6), FVB/N (n = 6)) underwent implantation of electrodes in the left amygdala (LA) and the left sensorimotor cortex (LCx). Stainless cannula was also inserted into the LA for KA injection,. All animals received KA injection into the LA (0.5? g) to induce seizures, Electroencephalographic and behavioral observation was made for 48 hours and voltages of the spike were statically analized. Mice then were decapitated and histologic studies including analysis of the neuronal density of the CA3 in the hippocampus were carried out. Results: On electoroencephalograms (EEGs), multiple spike discharges initially appeared in the LA within 10?20 min after KA injection and mouth and facial movement were behaviorally observed in both strains. At 20?60 min after KA injection, the seizure discharge propagated to the LCx. Within 60?90 min after KA injection the amplitude of the multiple spike discharges increased, seizure spread to the LCx, and head nodding, forelimb clonus, rearing and falling and generalized tonic clonic seizures were behaviorally observed. During ictal EEG change, all mice showed only immobilization, lasting 1?2 min and recurring every 10?20 min. In the C57BL/6, at 48 hours after KA injection multiple spike discharges were disappeared. Unlike C57BL/6, multiple spike discharges in the FVB/N were still apparent even at 48 hours after KA injection. Spike amplitude of the LCx in the FVB/N was statistically greater than that in the C57BL/6 at 48 hours after KA injection. Neuronal damage in the CA3 region was significantly more dense in the FVB/N than in the C57BL/6. Conclusions: In the KA-induced amygdalar seizures, it is likely that mice of the FVB/N strain show more seizure susceptibility than those of the C57BL/6. (Supported by Grant?in-Aid for Encouragement of Young Scientists from the Ministry of Education, Sciences, and Culture of Japan.) 1 Sarah K. Bergren, 2 Chen Shu, 2 Andrzej T. Galecki, and 1 Jennifer A. Kearney ( 1 Human Genetics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ; and 2 Institute of Gerontology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Mutations in the voltage-gated sodium channels SCN1A and SCN2A are responsible for several types of human epilepsy. Variable expressivity among family members is a common feature of these inherited epilepsies, suggesting that genetic modifiers may influence the clinical manifestation of epilepsy. The transgenic mouse model Scn2aQ54 has an epilepsy phenotype due to a mutation in Scn2a that slows channel inactivation. The mice display progressive epilepsy that begins with short duration partial seizures that appear to originate in the hippocampus. The partial seizures become more frequent and of longer duration with age, and often induce secondary generalized seizures. Clinical severity of the Scn2aQ54 phenotype is influenced by genetic background. Congenic C57BL/6J.Q54 mice exhibit decreased incidence of spontaneous seizures, delayed seizure onset, and longer survival in comparison with [C57BL/6J x SJL/J]F1.Q54 mice. This observation indicates that strain SJL/J carries dominant modifier alleles at one or more loci that determine the severity of the epilepsy phenotype. Methods: To localize loci responsible for the strain difference in seizure susceptibility between B6.Q54 and F1.Q54 mice, we carried out a backcross of F1.Q54 mice to strain B6. Backcross progeny carrying the Scn2aQ54 transgene were observed for 30 min at 3 and 6 weeks of age. Mice that exhibited one or more seizures during the 30 min observation were classified as susceptible and mice without seizures as resistant. A 20 cM resolution genome scan was carried out on 79 backcross DNAs, including 38 susceptible and 41 resistant. Association between genotypes and presence of epilepsy was analyzed by categorical trait interval mapping. An interval-specific congenic line carrying an SJL/J segment of chromosome 19 was used to confirm the mapping results and to generate interval-specific congenic lines for refining the map interval. Results: Genome-wide interval mapping in an N2 backcross revealed 2 modifier loci that influence the clinical severity of of this sodium channel-induced epilepsy on chromosomes 11 and 19, designated Moe1 (Modifier of Epilepsy 1) and Moe2, respectively. The modified phenotype is conferred by an interval-specific congenic mouse strain that carries an SJL/J-derived segment of chromosome 19 spanning the Moe2 region on a C57BL/6J background. We have further refined the map interval of Moe2 using interval-specific subcongenic lines. Conclusions: We have identified genetic modifiers that influence the age of onset and clinical severity of sodium channel-induced seizures in mice. Identification of epilepsy modifier loci that influence susceptibility and disease progression will provide insight into the molecular events of epileptogenesis, and may identify novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of human patients. (Supported by NIH NS046315 (JK); Claude Pepper Center Grant AG024824 (AG).) 1 M. Khubchandani, 2 U. Schridde, 1 F. Hyder, and 2,3 H. Blumenfeld ( 1 Diagnos. Radiology, Yale Univ, New Haven, CT ; 2 Neurol., Yale Univ, New Haven, CT ; and 3 NeuroBiol., Yale Univ, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: Generalized seizures are assumed to show a pattern of overall increased neuronal activity affecting the whole brain. Recent experiments have shown that the brain shows a rather heterogeneous pattern of increased and decreased activity during generalized seizures. While some consensus exists about increases, decreased neuronal activity during generalized seizures is still a matter of debate. Here we investigate increased and decreased activities during absence- and generalized tonic-clonic (T/C) seizures by combined EEG/fMRI measurements. Methods: We used WAG/Rij rats, because rats of this strain develop spontaneous absence epilepsy. T/C-seizures were induced by bicuculline injections. Rats were equipped with carbon filament electrodes for EEG recordings and placed inside a 9.4T horizontal bore spectrometer. During recordings rats were anesthetized with fentanyl/haloperidol and received D-tubocurarine for neuromuscular blockade. BOLD fMRI signals were analyzed by comparing images acquired during seizures to baseline images, and by comparing images acquired during different phases of seizure activity (T/C only). Results: Our recordings revealed widespread increases of the BOLD signal throughout the cortex, basal ganglia, thalamus, septum and hypothalamus and also decreased BOLD responses throughout the cortex and septum for both seizure types, but in slightly different locations from the increases. However, increased and decreased activity was generally more intense and widespread in T/C compared to absence seizures that showed a more fronto-parietal dominance. Compared to absence, T/C-seizures also showed mixed increases/decreases in the basal ganglia and hypothalamus, and decreases in the ventral pallidum and ncl. accumbens. Interestingly, the hippocampus consistently displayed signal decreases for both seizure types. Conclusions: Our results suggest that during generalized seizures the brain is not homogenously affected, but rather shows increased/decreased BOLD activities in distinct networks. Furthermore, activation/inactivation patterns are different, dependent on seizure type. In particular the decreases in BOLD activity, especially in the hippocampus, are interesting and deserve further investigation. While decreases in hippocampus during absence seizure might correspond to the non-involvement of this structure in this seizure type, its cause in T/C-seizures (vascular steal, increased O2 consumption exceeding compensatory blood flow, or other mechanisms) remains to be elucidated. Our results encourage further studies of the mechanisms of increased/decreased activity during generalized seizures which may lead to new therapeutic interventions in epilepsy. (Supported by NIH R01 NS049307 and the Blattmacher Fund (HB); NIH R01 MH67528 and DC03710 (FH).) 1 Mi Ae Kim, 1 Byung In Lee, 2 Joo Yong Kim, 1 Kyoung Heo, and 2 Min Kyung Chu ( 1 Neurology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea ; and 2 Neurology, Hallym University College of Medicine, Anyang, Korea ) Rationale: Hippocampal mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) has been suggested to be a causal mechanism underlying the development of temporal lobe epilepsy both in humans and animal models, and is regarded as evidence for tissue remodeling after seizure. Recently, it is reported that spontaneous seizures were still developed even after MFS inhibition in some experimental temporal epilepsy models. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) degrade a variety of extracellular matrix molecules and are considered to be involved in tissue remodeling. Expression of MMPs has been reported in several experimental seizure models. We assessed the roles of MMPs in MFS after pilocarpine-induced seizure, using MMP-9 inhibitor. Methods: Seizures were induced by intraperitoneal administration of pilocarpine (300mg/kg) in adult male C57BL/6 mice after methylscopolamine injection (1mg/kg). Expression of MMPs after pilocarpine-induced seizure was observed by gelatin zymography and Western blotting. To examine the roles of MMP-9, MMP-9 inhibitor was administered intraventrically 1 day after pilocarpine-induced seizure. Spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) were evaluated using video-EEG monitoring system fourteen days after pilocarpine-induced seizure. MFS was assessed by using a modified method for Timm staining. Results: Elevated expression of MMP-9 was observed both in gelatin zymography and Western blotting after pilocarpine-induced seizure. Expression of MMP-9 reached its maximum three days after pilocarpine-induced seizure, and declined thereafter. The level of MMP-9 expression returned to the baseline level fourteen days after pilocarpine-induced seizure. Expression of MMP-2 did not change after pilocarpine-induced seizure. After intaventricular administration of MMP-9 inhibitor (10mg/2ml) one day after pilocarpine-induced seizure, the mean MMP-9 expression level decreased by 26% compared to sham-treated mice, three days after pilocarpine-induced seizure. The level of expression of MMP-2 did not change after MMP-9 inhibitor treatment. Fourteen days after pilocarpine-induced seizure, mossy fiber sprouting was observed in all mice (3/3). Mossy fiber sprouting was not observed in MMP-9 inhibitor-treated mice (0/3). SRS were observed in 75% (3/4) of mice 14 days after pilocarpine-induced seizures. MMP-9 inhibitor treatment did not alter induction rate (4/5) and mean numbers of SRS. Conclusions: Elevated expression of MMP-9 was observed after pilocarpine-induced seizure. Expression of MMP-9 was decreased after MMP-9 inhibitor treatment. MFS was ameliorated by MMP-9 inhibitor treatment, but induction rate and mean numbers of SRS were not changed by MMP-9 inhibitor treatment. 1 Mervyn Kyi, 2 Sash Lopaticki, 1 Terence J. O'Brien, and 2 Simon J. Foote ( 1 Department of Medicine (RMH/WH), University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ; and 2 The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg (GAERS) are an inbred strain of Wistar rats that spontaneously display absence-like seizures and are widely utilized in epilepsy research. In a recent GAERS genome-wide scan, voltage gated calcium channel ?2-subunit (CACNG2) was identified as a possible candidate gene. This gene also underlies the defect in stargazer mouse model of ataxia and absence epilepsy. This study compares the genetic sequence and mRNA expression of CACNG2 in GAERS vs. non-epileptic control (NEC) rats. Methods: Brains were extracted from NEC and GAERS rats after their phenotype was confirmed via EEG recording. RNA was extracted from the thalamus and cortex. DNA was extracted from liver tissue. Both cDNA and genomic DNA were used to sequence CACNG2. Northern Blot analysis was performed on mRNA isolated from each subregion, and probed for CACNG2 and ?-actin PCR products Results: We found no differences in the coding sequence of CACNG2 between NEC, GAERS and Rattus norvegicus genome database. Northern blot analysis for CACNG2 revealed a 5.5 kilobase transcript in all animals with lower expression in the thalamus than in the cortex. No splice variants were detected between GAERS and NEC and messenger RNA expression levels were similar between the two strains. Conclusions: Results indicate that CACNG2 gene structure and its expression are not altered in GAERS. Absence epilepsy phenotype in GAERS is thought to be polygenic. By comparing CACNG2 between GAERS and their non-epileptic counterparts, this study eliminates this gene as a contributor to the epileptic phenotype in GAERS. (Supported by The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research and The University of Melbourne.) 1,2,3 Angelika Lampert, 1,2,3 Joshua P. Klein, 1 John F. Mission, 1 Maritza Rivera, 1 Michael Chen, 1,2,3 Bryan C. Hains, 1 Akash D. Shah, 4 Avis R. Brennan, 1 George Varghese, 1?4 Stephen G. Waxman, and 1,4 Hal Blumenfeld ( 1 Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 2 Center for Neuroscience and Regeneration Research, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ; 3 Rehabilitation Research Center, VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, CT ; and 4 Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT ) Rationale: The molecular mechanism by which amygdala kindling facilitates seizures is unclear. Neuronal voltage-gated sodium channels produce currents which, when abnormally expressed, can result in epileptiform firing patterns. In order to determine the role of altered sodium channel expression in kindling epileptogenesis, we studied the expression of sodium channels in hippocampal neurons, which become hyperexcitable after kindling. To further understand the contribution of altered sodium channel expression to epileptogenesis, we examined heterozygous mice of the med strain, phenotypically indistinguishable from wildtype mice but with only one functional copy of the gene encoding Nav1.6. Methods: 48 adult mice were grouped as follows: 12 wildtype sham, 12 wildtype kindled, 12 med sham, 12 med kindled. All mice were implanted with bipolar electrodes in the basolateral amygdala. Kindling was performed twice daily at a stimulus current equal to the afterdischarge threshold until three consecutive Racine class 5 seizures were recorded. Sham mice were implanted and treated identically except only negligible (1?A) stimulus was used. All mice were perfused two weeks after kindling, and brains were analyzed by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry to identify changes in sodium channel mRNA and protein expression. Results: Kindled mice showed a significant upregulation of Nav1.6 mRNA and protein in CA3 hippocampal neurons compared to sham kindled mice. Med mice required a significantly greater number of stimulations to complete kindling compared to wildtype mice. Moreover, med mice showed a higher afterdischarge threshold than wildtype mice. Conclusions: The results of this study indicate that Nav1.6 mRNA and protein is upregulated in CA3 neurons following amygdala kindling. This suggests that overexpression of Nav1.6 could serve as an underlying mechanism for enhanced excitability in kindling. The resistance to kindling exhibited by the heterozygous med mice further implicates Nav1.6 as a mechanistically important component of the kindling process. Further studies are needed to directly measure the possible role of altered sodium currents in enhanced excitability during kindling. (Supported by he Medical Research Service and Rehabilitation Research Service, Department of Veterans Affairs, and by grants from the Paralyzed Veterans of America and the United Spinal Association (to S.G.W.); and by NIH NS 049307 and the Blattmachr Fund (to H.B.). J.P.K. is supported by the NIH Medical Scientist Training Program.) 1,2 Benjamin Legros, 2 Stefanie Dedeurwaerdere, 2 Robrecht Raedt, 2 Tim De Smedt, 2 Pieter Claeys, 1 Massimo Pandolfo, and 2,3 Paul Boon ( 1 Neurology, Hôpital Erasme, Brussels, Belgium ; 2 Laboratory for Clinical and Experimental Neurophysiology, UZ Gent, Gent, Belgium ; and 3 Neurology, UZ Gent, Gent, Belgium ) Rationale: No animal model is widely accepted to study post stroke epilepsy. Photothrombotic brain infarction in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats leads to the development of focal epileptic seizures ipsilateral to the cortical infarct in 50% of the animals (Kharlamov et al, Epilepsy Research 2003; 56:185?203). In order to investigate the susceptibility to a proconvulsant agent, we tested the sensitivity of the animals to low doses of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) in this model. Methods: Photothrombosis was performed on 8 male SD rats. Rose bengal (30 mg/kg) was injected intravenously. Photoactivation was performed with a 6 mm diameter cold white light focused over the left fronto-parietal cortex during 20 minutes. Six epidural screw electrodes were placed over the skull. EEG was recorded during 6 months. Eight male SD control rats were also recorded.Intraperitoneal (ip) PTZ, at 20 and 30 mg/kg, was injected 9 months and 11 months after surgery. The seizures were classified clinically: stage 1: staring; stage 2: diffuse myoclonus; stage 3: rearing on the hind legs; stage 4: full-blown generalized clonic convulsion and falling down. Results: Among the 8 rats in which photothrombosis was induced, one died during status epilepticus 19 days after surgery. Two control rats died during the chronic EEG recording period. No spontaneous focal seizures were seen. After ip PTZ 20 mg/kg, all control animals presented stage 1 seizures. Among rats with photothrombosis, one showed stage 3 and one showed stage 4 seizure.After ip PTZ 30 mg/kg, one control animal presented stage 1 seizures and 5 animal stage 4 seizures. Among rats with photothrombosis, one had stage 1 seizure, 2 had stage 2 seizures, one had stage 3 and 3 had stage 4 seizures. Conclusions: This study showed that after photothrombotic brain infarction, no animals had spontaneous focal seizures. After ip PTZ 20 mg/kg, there was a tendency for more severe seizures in animals with photothrombosis, compared to controls. This tendency is not confirmed after ip PTZ 30 mg/kg. Further experiments are ongoing to confirm the results of this pilot study, by increasing the number of animals and by testing other proconvulsant agents. (Supported by Fondation Erasme, ULB-Hôpital Erasme; Clinical Epilepsy Grant, University Hospital, Gent.) 1 Zhao Liu, 1 Wendy Norman, 1 Dustyn Shenk, and 1 Paul R. Carney ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida Health Science Center, Gainesville, FL ) Rationale: Human medial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is characterized clinically by the progressive development of spontaneous recurrent seizures from temporal lobe foci. Electroencephalographic (EEG) studies in these patients often revealed interictal epileptiform discharges from the temporal lobes and EEG seizures of secondary generalization often starts with an electrodecremental event lasting a few seconds that is bilaterally followed by rhythmic fast activity. A rat model of chronic limbic epilepsy (CLE) was developed following a period of status epilepticus induced by continuous hippocampal stimulation. Spontaneous recurrent seizures occurred after a silent period of 4?6 weeks. The aim of this study was to examine whether the EEG changes in this model resemble those of human temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: 330 micron stainless steel monopolar electrodes were stereotaxically implanted in bilateral hippocampus and frontal cortex. Neuronal activity was recorded at 200Hz. Time-locked continuous video/EEG (VEEG) recordings were collected over the course of two months from a chronically seizing animal model of limbic epilepsy. EEG and behavior seizures were visually identified from time-locked continuous video/EEG recordings. Results: VEEG recordings from 24 animals with spontaneous recurrent seizures were reviewed. These EEGs were obtained from bilateral hippocampal depth electrodes and bilateral frontal cortical electrodes after the first spontaneous recurrent seizures and continued for 2?3 months. The interictal spikes and sharp waves were observed in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the stimulation site in majority of animals, and bilateral interictal spikes were observed in about 30% of animals. Prior to the onset of each spontaneous recurrent seizures, EEGs showed sudden onset of electrodecrements bilaterally for 1?2 seconds, followed by generalized bursts of sharp waves and buildup of rhythmic theta activity that accompanied the behavioral seizures. Postictal EEG showed a mixture of slow waves and attenuation of background activities. These EEG patterns were rather stereotypic and seen in the majority of animals. Conclusions: The pattern of interictal, ictal and post-ictal EEG changes in the rat CLE model resemble those observed in human MTLE. These results support the notion that the spontaneous limbic epilepsy rat model is a realistic model of human MLTE. (Supported by National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, Children's Miracle NetworkV 1 David S. Liu, 1 Terence J. O'Brien, 2 Rodney J. Hicks, 3 David A. Williams, and 3 Damian E. Myers ( 1 Department of Medicine, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ; 2 Centre for Molecular Imaging, Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ; and 3 Department of Physiology, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Hippocampal alterations of GABAA/central benzodiazepine receptor (GABAA/cBZR) expression are noted in TLE patients and animal models, but their importance to epileptogenesis is uncertain. The binding of the GABAA/cBZR antagonist [3H]-Flumazenil was studied in the hippocampus of amygdala-kindled and kainate-treated rat models of ?early? and ?later? epileptogenesis Methods: Age-matched male Wistar rats were divided into amygdala-kindling (n = 5), kainate-treated (n = 4) and control (n = 6) groups. All kainate-treated rats were confirmed to have spontaneous seizures and all kindled rats attained 5 ClassV seizures. GABAA/cBZR density (Bmax) and affinity (Kd) were determined in all hippocampal strata from saturation-binding analysis using [3H]-Flumazenil. Mossy fiber sprouting into the dentate molecular layer and its relationship with Bmax was examined Results: Kainate-treated rats had bilateral decreased Bmax in the oriens (78%), pyramidal (75%) and radiatum (79%) lamina of CA1 (all p < 0.05). A smaller reduction was seen in the dentate hilus (83%, p = 0.06), and in the hilar insertion of CA3 (78% p = 0.03). Contrastingly, the kindled left hippocampus showed significantly increased Bmax in all subregions except CA2 (all p < 0.05), with marked elevation in the dentate molecular layer (139%), CA1 molecular layer (128%) and stratum oriens of CA3 (134%). Mossy fiber sprouting was increased in both kainate (197% p = 0.01) and kindled (137%, p = 0.01) groups, with a strong inverse correlation between density of sprouted mossy fibers and GABAA/cBZR expression in the dentate molecular layer (r = -0.84, p = 0.004). No Kd changes were detected. Conclusions: The contrasting findings in the kindling and kainate-treated rats suggest that GABAA/cBZR expression is upregulated early in epileptogenesis, but downregulated at the chronic epileptic phase in regions where cell loss occurs. Mossy fiber sprouting may modulate these changes which could represent an important compensatory or pathological mechanism in epileptogenesis 1 Ariana Lorenzano, and 1 Paula E. Schauwecker ( 1 Cell and Neurobiology, USC Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA ) Rationale: Inheritance patterns between mouse strains suggest that a robust genetic influence determines individual susceptibility to kainic acid-induced hippocampal cell death. Previous quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping studies had located three significant loci on chromosomes 18, 15, and 4 in the mouse genome, responsible for seizure-induced cell death susceptibility. The QTL with the largest effect on susceptibility to seizure-induced cell death maps to the distal region of chromosome 18 (Schauwecker et al. 2004). In order to localize the loci more precisely, we generated a series of congenic and subcongenic strains by introgressing segments of seizure-induced cell death loci from the C57BL/6 resistant mouse into the background of the FVB/N susceptible mouse. Methods: Interval-specific congenic lines (ISCLs) were derived by identifying mice that carried recombination events in the C57BL/6 interval, during the backcrossing for congenics. Recombinant mice were backcrossed to FVB/N, and progeny that carried the reduced Chr 18, Chr 15, or Chr 4 region were tested for the effect on susceptibility to seizure-induced cell death. Mice were injected with kainate and observed for 3?4 hours for the onset and extent of seizures. Seven days following kainate, animals were perfused and hippocampi were assessed for susceptibility to kainate-induced cell death. A candidate gene approach was used to identify strong candidate genes within our introgressed regions by comparing the expression of candidate genes between C57BL/6 and FVB/N mice strains using quantitative RT-PCR. Genomic DNA from C57BL/6 and FVB/N mice was amplified and sequenced to identify potential single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) so as to detect genetic variants in both susceptible (FVB/N) and resistant (C57BL/6) murine populations. Results: Three congenic strains have been produced through introgression of various segments of chromosome 18, 15, or 4 from C57BL/6 mice into the recipient FVB/N mouse, and vice versa. In all cases, the extent of cell death was dramatically affected in that damage was significantly reduced in those congenic strains that contained a C57BL/6 resistant region in a FVB/N strain. We have developed multiple ISCLs which span our 3 QTL intervals, which have allowed us to begin to test each chromosomal segment statistically for linkage to kainate-induced cell death. Two of these share the C57BL/6 phenotype of reduced cell death. Differential expression of hippocampal mRNA for several candidate genes using quantitative RT-PCR and nucleotide variants have been identified between FVB/N and C57BL/6 strains as well. Conclusions: Overall, these data confirm the existence of the genetic loci that confer susceptibility to seizure-induced cell death. The resolution of individual recombinants obtained in this study should allow us to narrow our originally defined critical fragments down to a size amenable to facilitate the positional cloning of the loci. (Supported by NS038696 (PES).) 1 John G. Mantis, 1 Christina Y. Kim, 1 Nicole A. Centeno, 1 Richard McGowan, and 1 Thomas N. Seyfried ( 1 Biology, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA ) Rationale: Glucose uptake into the brain is greater during epileptic seizures than during most other brain activities suggesting a key role for glucose in the initiation and spread of seizure activity. Under conditions of fasting or caloric restriction (CR), however, brain cells can also derive energy from ketone bodies. Consequently, high fat, low protein, low carbohydrate ketogenic diets (KD) were developed to mimic the physiological effects of fasting for seizure control. While the mechanisms by which fasting and the KD inhibit seizures remain speculative, a transition from glucose to ketone bodies for brain energy is likely involved. This transition in brain energy metabolism likely produces multiple changes in gene and protein expression levels that ultimately lead to reduced neuronal membrane excitability and seizure protection. We previously showed that CR inhibits seizure susceptibility, and that the KD inhibits epileptogenesis in the epileptic EL mouse, a model of human multifactorial idiopathic epilepsy. In this study, we compared the antiepileptic and anticonvulsant efficacy of the KD with that of CR in adult EL mice, and studied the expression levels of various genes potentially involved in the metabolic control of seizures by these diets. Methods: Adult EL mice that experienced at least 15 recurrent complex partial seizures were fed either a standard (chow) diet unrestricted (SD-UR) or restricted (SD-R), and either a KD unrestricted (KD-UR) or restricted (KD-R). A new experimental design was used where each mouse in the diet-restricted groups served as its own control to achieve a 20% body weight reduction. Seizure susceptibility, body weights, and the levels of plasma glucose and ?-hydroxybutyrate were measured once a week over a nine-week treatment period in each diet group. Gene expression levels were analyzed by RT-PCR under the four dietary conditions. Results: Seizure susceptibility remained high in both UR-fed groups throughout the study, but was significantly reduced after three weeks in both R-fed groups. Body weights and plasma glucose levels remained high over the nine-week testing period in the SD-UR and the KD-UR groups, but were significantly reduced in the SD-R and KD-R groups. Plasma ?-hydroxybutyrate levels were significantly increased in the SD-R and KD-R groups compared to their respective UR groups. Preliminary RT-PCR data have been obtained for the expression profiles of various genes (MCT1, GLUT1, NPY, and GAD). Additional RT-PCR data are needed to test statistical variance. Conclusions: A reduction in plasma glucose levels coupled with an increase in plasma ketone levels is predicted to manage EL epileptic seizures through multiple integrated changes of inhibitory and excitatory neural systems. (Supported by the Epilepsy Foundation, the NIH grant (HD39722), and the Boston College Research Expense Fund.) 1 Steven T. Marsh, 1,2 Levi B. Good, 1 Kevin J. Garvey, and 1 David M. Treiman ( 1 Neurology Research, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ; and 2 Harrington Department of Bioengineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ ) Rationale: Status epilepticus (SE) is a dynamic state. There are progressive changes in clinical behavior, response to treatment, extent of neuronal damage, and EEG pattern during prolonged clinical and experimental status epilepticus. SE also causes deficits in learning and memory, but progressive impairment with increasing severity of SE has been little studied. We tested the hypothesis that the EEG stage during SE predicts the extent of subsequent cognitive impairment. Methods: Twelve 250?280 gm male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with 4 stainless steel epidural electrodes for EEG recording. Status epilepticus was induced by 3 mmol/kg IP LiCl followed 24 hrs later by 30 mg/kg pilocarpine. EEG was continuously recorded before and after injection, and SE was stopped at EEG stage III (continuous ictal activity), or V (periodic epileptiform discharges) (Treiman et al., Epilepsy Res5:49?60, 1990) with IP diazepam (10 mg/kg) plus phenobarbital (25 mg/kg). Control rats were given PB and DZM prior to SE induction and thus did not develop SE. Spatial learning and memory were assessed one week prior to SE induction (baseline) and one week after SE using a modification of the Morris Water Maze (J Neurosci Methods 1984; 11: 47?60). Learning impairment was tested in six trials on each of four sequential days. Effect of the SE EEG stage on the mean escape time to a submerged platform and mean swim length were determined by a multiple analysis of variance. Pair-wise multiple comparisons of groups were done by Fisher's least significant difference. The mean escape time and swim length for the six trials on test day 1 of week 2 (post-SE) was compared with the mean of the six trials on test day 4 of week 1 (pre-SE) to assess the effect of SE on spatial memory. Results: Mean time to stop SE from pilocarpine injection was, for Stage III 65 min, and for Stage V 210 min. There were no significant differences between these groups in baseline water maze performance. However, after SE, for both the first 6 trials on test day one (test of memory) and overall mean for all 24 trials (test of learning), mean escape time and swim length were significantly worse (P < 0.001) in Stage III and Stage V rats, compared with controls and Stage V rats were significantly worse than Stage III. Conclusions: SE results in a marked impairment of both visual-spatial memory and learning. The later the EEG stage, the greater the impairment. Thus progressive cognitive impairment, in addition to other dynamic changes cited above, is also an effect of prolonged SE. These data provide further evidence that the EEG stage during prolonged SE is a marker of its severity. (Supported by The Barrow Neurological Foundation.) 1 Yohan Chaix, 1 Eve Lapouble, and 1 Benoit Martin ( 1 Laboratoire de Neurobiologie - UPRES EA 2633, Université d'Orléans, Orléans Cedex 02, France ) Rationale: The beta-carbolines, such as the beta-CCM or methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate, bind at the benzodiazepine site of the GABA-A receptor. This family has various effects, such as anxiogenic, learning/memory enhancement and convulsant effects. Evidences suggest a genetic link between the mechanisms which control the seizuring response after a beta-carboline injection and those which control the absence-epilepsy: 1) it has been shown that the GAERS rats are more susceptible to seizures induced by a beta-carboline injection than the control NEpi rats; 2) two mouse lines derived from a bidirectionnal selection for their beta-CCM-induced-seizure susceptibility were characterized in our laboratory. These two strains differ logically for their beta-CCM response, but surprisingly they also differ for their electrophysiological activity: the susceptible one, BS/Orl, exhibits spontaneous, bilateral and synchronous spike and wave discharges (SWDs). The resistant one, BR/Orl, does not present any SWDs, even after injection of gamma-butyro-lactone, known to induce SWDs; 3) we created a pseudo-replicated selected line BS2/Orl for BS/Orl. These two lines share the same electrophysiological properties; 4) it has been shown that the Bis2 gene (beta-carboline-induced seizures 2), involved in beta-CCM responses, can modify the spontaneous SWD activity up to 600%. Methods: Our final goal is to identify genes involved in absence epilepsy. Since the genetic mechanisms for SWDs and beta-CCM response seem to overlap, we suggest in a first step to address the absence epilepsy genetic control in using the beta-CCM response trait. Here we present our mapping data and analysis for this beta-CCM induced seizure phenotype. The genome scan has been carried out on a segregating F2 population derived from BS/Orl and BR/Orl, with high density PCR markers using R-qtl (R package). Results: Two chromosomal regions have shown a highly significant linkage on chromosome 1 between D1mit14 and D1mit353 and chromosome 5 between D5mit13 and D5mit308 (LOD = 14 and 5, respectively; thresholds after permutations: p(0.05) = 3.19 and p(0.001) = 3.70). Conclusions: Mapping data and suggested candidate genes included in these regions are presented. (Supported by CNRS-France and the University of Orléans.) 1,4 Jonathan P. Mason, 1,4 Nathalia Piexoto, 1,4 Sridhar Sunderam, 2 Ruchi S. Parekh, 1,3 Steven L. Weinstein, 1,2 Steven J. Schiff, and 1,4 Bruce J. Gluckman ( 1 Krasnow Institute, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ; 2 Department of Psychology, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ; 3 CNMC, Washington, DC ; and 4 Department of Physics and Astronomy, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ) Rationale: It is becoming increasingly clear from human studies that the implantation of depth electrodes can be associated with functional effects independent of electrical stimulation. Although such findings have been attributed to microlesions associated with electrode implantation, there is to our knowledge no prior work examining the anatomy of such microlesions. We present a neuropathological study of cell bodies and processes injured following depth electrode insertion into the hippocampus of rats. Methods: Two groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats (300g) were selected. The control group (n = 6) was not implanted while the experimental group (n = 7) was implanted bilaterally in the ventral hippocampus with electrodes constructed of stainless steel or steel coated with thin films of iridium oxide. These electrodes were placed so that they lay axially within the ventral hippocampus, within the curve of the CA3, by targeting a point near the tip of the enclosed blade of the dentate gyrus (Bregma referenced Paxinos and Watson 4th ed. atlas coordinates: AP = -5.15mm, ML =+/? 5.35mm, DV = -7.6mm). Implanted and non implanted animals were allowed free access to food and water for 10 days and then sacrificed and perfused with paraformaldehyde. All brains were sliced and stained with an Amino Cupric Silver stain to show neurodegeneration. Results: We find significant neurodegeneration due solely to electrode implantation, without stimulation, for all electrode materials used (n = 4 animals). Electrodes inserted into the white matter of stratum radiatum caused local retrograde Wallerian-type degeneration of CA3 pyramidal neurons associated with transection of their axon collaterals and apical dendritic processes. Considerable degeneration of shaffer collateral and commissural fibers was also noted in the stratum pyramidale and oriens of CA1. Moreover, we found fiber degeneration in the alveus, fimbria and notably distally in the fornices (Figure 1). Conclusions: We present to our knowledge the first anatomical description of microlesion neuronal degeneration associated with the deep brain implantation of electrodes for use in epilepsy control. It is critical to distinguish functional effects of such lesions from the effects (functional or degenerative) from long term chronic stimulation of deep brain structures. (Supported by NIH Grants R01EB001507, K02MH01493 and R01MH50006.) 1 Hideyuki Matsukubo, 2 Shigeya Tanaka, 3 Shin-ichi Imamura, 1 Hideshi Tojo, 1 Motofumi Kasugai, 1 Koichi Akaike, and 1 Akira Sano ( 1 Department of Psychiatry, Field of Social and Behavioral Medicine, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kgoshima, Kgoshima, Japan ; 2 Neurosurgery, Tanaka Neurosurgical Clinic, Kgoshima, Kgoshima, Japan ; and 3 Neurosurgery, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental, Kgoshima, Kgoshima, Japan ) Rationale: We previously stated that hippocampal transection, fiber disconnection between dorsal and ventral hippocampus, attenuated chronic spontaneous amygdalar seizures caused by microinjection of kainic acid into the amygdala (Akaike et.al, 2001, Imamura et. al., 2001, 2003). Though prior studies suggested that such changes of epileptogenicity are likely associated with neurotransmitters, the biochemical mechanism including monoamine changes in this procedure remains veiled. This study was designed to assess the effect by evaluating intrahippocampal changes of monoamine. Methods: Experiments were carried out on 18 male Wistar rats having undergone microinjection of kainic acid into the amygdala in advance. More than three weeks later, 12 of them developed with spontaneous amygdalar seizures (Tanaka et al., 1988). They then were divided into three groups; controls (without spontaneous amygdalar seizures, n = 6), SP group (with spontaneous amygdalar seizures, without hippocampal transection, n = 6) and SPT group (with spontaneous amygdalar seizures, with hippocampal transection, n = 6). Hippocampal transection was done according to our previous methods (Imamura et al., 2001). Under deep anesthesia, animals were decapitated and the hippocampi were removed, then separated to dorsal and ventral portions. Intrahippocampal monoamine including noradrenaline (NA), homovanillic acid (HVA), dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) and 5-hydroxy-indole acetic acid (5-HIAA) then were quantitatively measured using high performance liquid chromatography and statistical analysis was carried out. Results: Comparing with controls, NA in dorsal hippocampus and DA and DOPAC in ventral hippocampus were lower and 5-HT and 5-HIAA in dorsal and ventral hippocampi were higher in SP group. The rest were unaltered. In SPT group, after hippocampal transection was performed, DA and DOPAC in ventral hippocampus increased again, while NA in dorsal hippocampus and 5-HT and HIAA in dorsal and ventral hippocampi remained unchanged. Conclusions: The biochemical mechanism of hippocampal transection in spontaneous amygdalar seizures is likely to be associated with the changes of DA and DOPAC in ventral hippocampus. (Supported by Grant?in-Aid for Encouragement of Young Scientists from the Ministry of Education, Sciences, and Culture of Japan.) 1 Daniel P. McCloskey, 1 Tana M. Hintz, 2 Joseph P. Pierce, and 1,3 Helen E. Scharfman ( 1 CNRRR, Helen Hayes Hosp., W. Haverstraw, NY ; 2 Dept. of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, NY, NY ; and 3 Departments of Pharmacology and Neurology, Columbia University, NY, NY ) Rationale: Following status epilepticus, there is a large proliferation of dentate granule cells, many of which develop ectopically in the hilus. Despite evidence that these EGCs contribute to increased excitability after status, it is still unclear whether this population is substantial enough to affect hippocampal network physiology. To quantify this population and its persistence, the total number of EGCs was estimated, using unbiased stereology, at different times after PILO. Methods: Adult male Sprague Dawley rats (200 ± 20g; n = 5) received 1 mg/kg atropine methylbromide, s.c., followed by 380mg/kg pilocarpine HCl i.p. (or 1 ml/kg saline in controls; n = 4). Diazepam (10 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered after 1 hr to attenuate status, and ?5 hrs later animals received 1 ml castor oil (orally), and 2 ml dextrose-lactate Ringer's Solution (s.c.). Diet was supplemented with apples for ?1 wk. Rats were perfused with PBS, 2?18 mon after PILO. One hippocampus was embedded in agarose, post-fixed (4% PFA), and chopped longitudinally (McIlwain) into 6 equal-length slabs. A randomly chosen slab was Vibratome resectioned (75 ?m) in its entirety. Free-floating immunocytochemistry used Prox-1 for EGC identification (1:60,000; Covance). The number of Prox-1 immunopositive neurons in the hilus was estimated for each animal using the optical fractionator method. Samples were taken at systematic points along a randomly placed grid using software (StereoInvestigator). The hilus was defined as the region between the apex of the granule cell layer and the tip of the individual blades, with a border 100?m away from the granule cell layer along each blade. When every section was counted, the total number of counted cells was multiplied by the reciprocal value of the sampling probabilities. Results: After PILO, mean EGC number per hippocampus was 17770 ± 5023 (sem), which was significantly higher than controls (1613 ± 248; t(4) = 3.2, p < 0.05). The total number of EGCs after PILO ranged from 6,300 to 32,250. The survival time did not appear to correlate with EGC number, but animals with few behavioral spontaneous seizures appeared to have fewer EGCs. Conclusions: These data are the first quantify hilar EGCs after PILO. The use of a granule cell specific antibody and unbiased stereology ensures maximal accuracy. EGCs were found to be at least 3 times higher in pilocarpine-treated rats than control rats at all time points tested (2, 14, and 18 months), showing that EGC formation represents a long-lasting change in the ?epileptic? rat hippocampus. Together with their physiological abnormalities, the high number of EGCs suggests that they may contribute to hippocampal hyperexcitability and epileptogenesis in the PILO model. (Supported by NIH NS 41490, Epilepsy Foundation, and Helen Hayes Hospital Foundation.) 1 Michael J. McLean, 2 Markus Schmutz, 2 Mario Pozza, and 3 Artur Wamil ( 1 Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ; 2 Novartis Pharma, Basel, Switzerland ; and 3 Eisai Global Clinical Development, Ridgefield Park ) Rationale: Rufinamide (CGP-33101) is an investigational anticonvulsant compound with demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of electrically and chemically induced seizures in animals. Several anticonvulsant drugs, including phenytoin, carbamazepine, lamotrigine, and oxcarbazepine have similar efficacy in animal models and are used to treat partial and generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Blockade of sodium channels, and limitation of high-frequency action potential firing as a consequence, is believed to contribute to the efficacy of these drugs. Here, we describe effects of rufinamide on electrophysiological properties of neurons in vitro. Methods: Sodium currents were recorded from freshly dispersed rat cortical neurons with and without rufinamide in the extracellular buffer using whole-cell patch-clamp recording techniques. Sodium-dependent action potential firing of cultured mouse central neurons was recorded with intracellular microelectrode recording techniques. Cells were exposed to rufinamide in the superfusate for greater than 30 minutes and/or in the culture medium for up to 48 hours to ensure equilibration. The recording chamber was perfused with phosphate-buffered saline containing 7 mmol/L magnesium to suppress spontaneous firing at 35°C to 37°C. Results: Exposure to rufinamide produced rest- and use-dependent block of sodium currents, and slowed recovery from inactivation. Exposure to 1?500 ?mol/L of rufinamide reduced the rate and duration of action potential firing in response to depolarizing current pulses of up to 40 seconds in duration. Response to 1?100 ?moles/L rufinamide was variable; firing was severely inhibited in some cells, while others displayed only mild or moderate decreases in firing rate. Firing was severely limited in all cells exposed to rufinamide concentrations ≥200 ?mol/L. The concentration of rufinamide required to limit firing in 50% of neurons (IC50) was 3.8 ?mol/L (range 2?10 ?moles/L). Conclusions: Over a broad range of concentrations, rufinamide reduced sodium currents and limited high-frequency action potential firing of neurons in vitro. These findings suggest that rufinamide achieves its anticonvulsant effects, at least in part, by blocking sodium channels. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1 Terence J. O'Brien, 1,2 Lige Liu, 1 Charlott Wallengren, 1,3 Rink-Jan Lohman, and 3 Margaret J. Morris ( 1 The Department of Medicine, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia ; 2 Department of Neurology, Beijing Friendship Hspital, Beijing, China ; and 3 Department of Pharmacology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Aggravation of seizures by anti-epileptic drugs is an important clinical problem. A well-documented example of this is the aggravation of absence seizures by carbamazepine (CBZ), but the mechanisms are very poorly understood. Generalized absence epilepsy rats of Strasbourg (GAERS) are a well-validated model of genetic absence epilepsy. Critical to the neurophysiology of absence seizures are the reticular nucleus (Rt) and the ventrobasal nucleus (VB) of the thalamus. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of microinjection of CBZ into the Rt and the VB on seizure expression. Methods: Female ovarectomised GAERS were implanted with either intracerebroventricular (icv) cannulae or bilateral microcatheters into the Rt or VB, and extradural EEG electrodes. Rats were studied following injection of CBZ (icv: 10ug in 4uL or Rt/VB: 0.75ug in 0.2uL) or vehicle (in random order). The treatment effect was quantified over a 90-minute EEG recording. Results: Seizure aggravation was seen in all rats (n = 7) given CBZ icv (mean increase in seizure time = 49 ± 26% p < 0.05). Similar seizure aggravation was seen after microinjection of CBZ into the VB (56 ± 17%, P= 0.01, n = 7). No effects on seizures were observed following CBZ administration into the Rt (-8 ± 12%, n = 7). When a further groups of rats underwent injections into the VB of CBZ, CBZ with the GABA-A antagonist bicuculline (CBZ-BIC), bicuculline alone, or vehicle there was significantly less seizure aggravation following CBZ-BIC (21 ± 12%, n = 10) than following CBZ alone (151 ± 23%, n = 5) (p = 0.02). Conclusions: This data indicates that the VB is the neuroanatomical site at which CBZ acts to aggravate absence seizures, and that activation of GABA-A receptors are important in the mechanism of this effect. 1 Filiz Yilmaz Onat, 1 Ayten Azizova Gurbanova, 1 Rezzan Gülhan Aker, 1 Medine Gülçebi, and 2 Cigdem Ozkara ( 1 Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Cerrahapasa Medical School, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey ) Rationale: It has been reported that spike-and-wave discharges are consistenly recorded from the thalamus and the cortex whereas no spike-and-wave discharges are recorded from the limbic structures including the amygdala and the hippocampus in genetic absence epilepsy rats from Strasbourg (GAERS). Therefore, limbic structures are not generally considered to involve in the pathogenesis of absence epilepsy. In this study we aimed to evaluate electroencephalogram (EEG) from the cortex and amygdala of GAERS before and after repeated kindling electrical stimulations. Methods: Electrodes were stereotaxically implanted into the basolateral amygdala of GAERS (n = 12) for stimulation and recording and into the cortex for recording. After a recovery period, in order to determine the afterdischarge threshold, the basolateral amygdala of the rats was stimulated with an initial stimulation of 50 ?A (monophasic, square wave pulses of 80 Hz, each 1 msec in duration, for a total duration of 2 seconds) and continued with 50 ?A increments until an initial afterdischarge was obtained. Next, the animal was stimulated twice daily at the current afterdischarge threshold. The maximum number of electrical stimulations was 30. EEG was recorded to analyze spike-and-wave discharges and afterdischarge durations. Results: All GAERS showed cortical spike-and-wave discharges in the basal EEG before kindling stimulations. Nine out of 12 GAERS demonstrated no spike-and-wave discharges in the basolateral amydala with the maximum number of kindling stimulations. On the other hand, the basolateral amygdala recording of 3 GAERS with repeated electrical stimulations showed spike-and-wave discharges in EEG while their basal EEG before the kindling process demonstrated no spike-and-wave discharges in the basolateral amygdala. In addition, repeated amygdala kindling stimulations significantly enhanced the amplitude of spike-and-wave discharges in the EEG of 3 GAERS. Conclusions: Although limbic structures are not generally thought to contribute to the brain circuitry in which spike-and-wave discharges are generated, the observation of spike-and-wave discharges in the basolateral amygdala suggest that in a subpopulation of GAERS the amygdala seems to be involved in the generation of spike-and-wave discharges. (Supported by Marmara University Scientific Research Committee (BAPKO).) 1,2 Nathalia Peixoto, 1,2 Nick Chernyy, 4 Steven L. Weinstein, 1 Ruchi S. Parekh, 1,2 Jonathan P. Mason, 1,3 Steven S. Schiff, and 1,2 Bruce J. Gluckman ( 1 Krasnow Inst, George Mason Univ, Fairfax, VA ; 2 Physics and Astronomy, George Mason Univ, Fairfax, VA ; 3 Psychology, George Mason Univ, Fairfax, VA ; and 4 CNMC, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Neural activity can be modulated with low-frequency (<100Hz) electric fields. We are currently working to implement neural prosthetics for In Vivo applications, especially seizure control, based on this technology. In order to modulate activity in chronically implanted animals with electric fields, high charge density passing stimulation electrodes are required, where current is primarily limited by electrochemistry at the electrode surfaces. Here we evaluate performance and safety of electrodeposited iridium-oxide electrodes in chronically implanted and stimulated animals, and compare results to two In Vitro models. Methods: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were bilaterally implanted with hippocampal stimulating (3mm long x 0.25mm diameter) and recording electrodes. Electrochemical deposition of iridium oxide film was used on all electrodes. Six days after surgery interhemispheric stimulation was applied for 100 h continuously, with 0.6V (voltage controlled) and frequency from 0.1 to 50Hz. Rats were then sacrificed, perfused and histology performed. Results: Electrode charge storage capacity was measured by cyclic voltammetry and impedance spectroscopy. In order to mimic the In Vivo situation, electrodes were immersed in 0.9%NaCl and submitted to the same stimulation protocol as described above. Charge passed per stimulation cycle as a function of frequency was calculated (Fig.1, M1) by integrating the electric current through the electrodes over each period of the stimulating waveform. Bipolar stimulation In Vivo yielded lower charge per cycle than In Vitro (Fig.1, R1 and R2). The In Vitro model was then adapted by adding an 8.2kΩ resistor in series with the electrodes to model higher net impedance between the electrodes. This model (Fig.1, M2) showed a better fit to the In Vivo data at higher frequencies. Conclusions: Electrochemical analysis of charge passed through implanted electrodes with the voltage control stimulation protocol showed that the net impedance through bilateral stimulation In Vivo was higher than expected. This limits the amount of current that can be safely passed in deep brain stimulation paradigms, and can be addressed with ipsilateral in contrast with bilateral electrode pairs. These results are relevant for safety assessment, optimal performance, and design of controls for high charge passing stimulation electrodes. (Supported by NIH grants R01EB001507, K02MH01493, and R01MH50006.) 1 John R. Pollard, 1 Philip W. Lamparello, 1 Marc A. Dichter, and 1 Peter B. Crino ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: More than 30% of epilepsy patients do not respond completely to AEDs and are considered are medically intractable. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of antiepileptic drugs may begin to elucidate reasons for AED resistance. There is evidence that the effects of some of these drugs extend beyond ion channel blockade and second messengers to cause changes in gene transcription. Valproate causes changes in gene expression in mammalian cells that may relate to its mechanism of action. We first studied changes in gene expression in whole cultures following treatment with valproate to gain a broad view of altered transcription. Next we studied a subset of the candidate genes that are particularly relevant to epilepsy in single cells that were immunohistochemically identified as excitatory neurons, inhibitory neurons, or glial cells. Methods: After 14 days in vitro, dissociated rat embryonic hippocampal cultures were exposed for 24 hours to sodium valproate 1mM or sodium chloride 1mM. Whole cultures were lysed with Trizol and total RNA was extracted. mRNA was amplified from those samples, and the resulting radiolabeled mRNA was used to probe macroarrays containing epilepsy related candidate cDNAs. Expression of several mRNAs was altered in the VPA treated cultures thus warranting a cell specific examination of these genes. Similar cultures were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde and immunostained for specific protein markers: vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT2) to identify excitatory neurons; vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) to identify inhibitory neurons, and glial fibrillary protein (GFAP) to identify glial cells. Single cells were aspirated from cover slips using microscalpal. The mRNA was amplified from each of these cells and the resulting radiolabeled aRNA was used to probe cDNA macroarrays that contained the genes identified in the first stage. Results: The first set of experiments yielded a solid confirmation that mRNA expression of some epilepsy related genes are altered in vitro by VPA. Several ion channel subunit exhibited differential expression after exposure to VPA including: GABAAα5, GABAA?1, GABAA?2 all of which increased; and GluR5 which decreased. In addition, GAD 65 more than doubled in expression. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the presence of inhibitory neurons, excitatory neurons, and glial cells on the cover slips. Single cell microscalpal aspiration reveals differential expression of epilepsy related genes in each cell type studied. Conclusions: Valproate caused alteration in the expression of several epilepsy related genes. The single cell gene expression studies confirmed differential changes in gene expression in inhibitory neurons, excitatory neurons, and glial cells. The most profound changes occurred in levels of ion channel subunit expression. These studies suggest that pharmacogenomic changes caused by valproic acid may contribute to its mechanism of antiepileptic action. (Supported by National Epifellows Foundation.) 1,2 Stephane Auvin, 2 Natacha Porta, 3 Astrid Nehlig, 1,2 Beatrice Bourgois, 2 Regis Bordet, and 1,2 Louis Vallee ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Lille University Hospital, Lille, France ; 2 Pharmacology Laboratory, EA 1046, Lille School of Medicine, Lille, France ; and 3 INSERM U666, Strasbourg, France ) Rationale: Inflammatory process in response to an infection can cause febrile seizures (FS) consisting of hyperthermia. FS may promote the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. It has been shown that an inflammatory response in mice contributes to the onset of FS. On other hand, it has been shown in rats that FS is followed by long-term modification of brain excitability. To further examine whether FS results in modification of brain excitability, we induced an inflammatory response in combination with FS Methods: Hyperthermia was induced in rat pups at either P11 or P16 using a heating lamp which increased body temperature at a rate of 1°C/min. Core temperature was continuously monitored using a rectal probe. Rat pups were maintain at the temperature seizure threshold during 5 min. In order to induce an inflammatory response, lipopolysaccharide (LPS, E. coli 055:B5) was injected i.p. at 5ug/kg or 50ug/kg, two hours prior the induction of the seizures. Six groups were studied: FS at P11 (P11FS), FS+LPS 5?g/kg at P11 (P11LPS5), FS+LPS 50?g/kg at P11 (P11LPS50), FS at P16 (P16FS), FS+LPS 5?g/kg at P16 (P16LPS5), and FS+LPS 50?g/kg at P16 (P16LPS50). After 1 month, pentylenetetrazol threshold (PTZth) was used to assess the modification of brain excitability (n = 8/group). PTZ was dissolved to obtain a concentration of 10mg/kg and was infused into the tail-vain at the rate of 5ml/h. Seizure threshold dose (mg/kg) was derived from the time of infusion required to achieve the first bilateral forelimb myoclonus Results: The temperature thresholds to induce the first seizure were not different among the groups. The temperature thresholds were: 41.2 ± 0.3°C in P11FS, 41.3 ± 0.3°C in P16FS, 42.1 ± 0.2°C in P11LPS5, 41.8 ± 0.3°C in P16LPS5, 41.8 ± 0.7°C in P11LPS50 and 42.2 ± 0.3°C in P16LPS50.The mortality rate were: 9% in P11FS, 12% in P16FS, 17% in P11LPS5, 18% in P16LPS5, 20% in P11LPS50 and 40% in P16LPS50. The PTZth (mg/kg mean ± sem) were not significantly different among the sham and FS only groups, or across ages with LPS treatment at either age. With in each age group, however, the PTZth was significantly lowered after either dose of LPS (38.8 ± 1.2 in P11FS, 34.8 ± 0.8 in P11LPS5 and 32.9 ± 1.1 P11LPS50 [p < 0.05]and 38.1 ± 0.7 in P16FS, 34.5 ± 0.7 in P16LPS5, 33.6 ± 0.9 in P16LPS50 [p < 0.05]) Conclusions: Lower PTZth obtained by using LPS in combination with FS in rat pups suggests modification of brain excitability. P11 appears to be the most useful age to study FS after inflammation due to the higher mortality at the older age group. Previous studies have shown that 30 min of FS is required for enhanced excitability. Our model with only 5 min of FS in combination with LPS suggests that an inflammatory response could, in part, explain brain excitability following FS (Supported by AEAC association.) 1 Liang Qiao, and 2 H. Steve White ( 1 Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, University of Utah ; and 2 Antiepileptic Drug Development Program, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ) Rationale: Methamphetamine (METH), a schedule II drug, has long been known to be a potent releaser of dopamine and serotonin. In addition, seizures are often associated with acute METH overdose. The goal of this study was to assess whether multiple METH treatments affect rat amygdala kindling acquisition, which is a well-established model of epileptogenesis. Methods: Two groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing between 260?280 grams (n = 14 in METH-treated group, n = 10 in control group) were employed. In the METH-treated group, multiple METH injections (4?10 mg/kg, s.c.) were administered every 2 hrs. The control group received saline (4?1 ml/kg, s.c.) every 2 hrs. Three days after the last treatment, bipolar stimulating-recording electrodes were implanted into the basolateral amygdala using stereotaxic surgery. After a one-week recovery period, individual afterdischarge thresholds (ADTs) were determined by stimulating the amygdala with increasing stimulus intensity beginning at 40 ?Amp and increasing by 20 ?Amp increments until an afterdischarge of at least 3 seconds was observed. This current was recorded as the ADT and considered reflective of each animal's electrographic seizure threshold. On the day following ADT determination each rat was stimulated at its individual ADT once per day until all rats in the control group displayed three consecutive secondarily generalized seizures (i.e., stage IV/V according to the Racine scale, 1972). Both behavioral scores and afterdischarge durations (ADDs) displayed a progressive increase with each kindling stimulation. Results: There was no significant difference in ADT between the METH and saline groups. However, METH-treated rats displayed a faster rate of kindling as estimated by the number of stimulations required to reach stage 3 or stage 4/5 seizures. In METH-treated rats, 5.0 ± 0.3 and 8.3 ± 0.9 stimulations were required to reach 3 and stage 4/5 seizures, respectively; compared with 8.3 ± 0.9 and 11.6 ± 1.2 in control rats. The ADD was observed to be longer in the METH-treated group; nonetheless, the total ADD to reach either a stage 3 or stage 4/5 seizure was not significantly different between the two groups. Conclusions: Multiple METH treatment accelerates amygdala kindling acquisition. These results suggest that METH-induced neurotoxicity may contribute to epileptogenesis in susceptible individuals. (Supported by NIDA grant 5-PO1-DA 13367-04.) 1 Doodipala S. Reddy, 2 A. K. Shetty, and 1 L.-A. Apanites ( 1 MBS,CVM, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC ; and 2 Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC ) Rationale: Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is one of the most common forms of intractable epilepsy. Despite the availability of over twenty-five antiepileptic drugs, nearly 30% of people with epilepsy have intractable seizures. TLE is characterized by a latent period between the initial injury and the onset of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) and a chronic epileptic state. These characteristics are expressed in pilocarpine-treated rats, an animal model of TLE. Neurosteroids are endogenous modulators of seizure susceptibility and hence could provide novel insights for the treatment of epilepsy. Allopregnanolone is a neurosteroid synthesized in the brain, but the therapeutic potential of this steroid remains unclear. In this study, we used the rat with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy as an animal model of TLE. We tested the hypothesis that endogenous GABAergic neurosteroids inhibits the frequency and severity of spontaneous seizures and electrographic discharges in pilocarpine-induced epileptic rats. Methods: We recently characterized the pilocarpine model of TLE, including the occurrence of SRS. We adapted the lithium-pilocarpine protocol described by Loescher for induction of chronic epilepsy. Female rats were subjected to pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) by multiple injections (10 mg/kg, i.p., per 30 min). Rats were monitored for SRS during 6?10 weeks post pilocarpine. Behavioral and EEG seizures were recorded throughout this period. Occurrence of SRS was monitored for 8 h/day in all rats. Antiepileptic effects of allopregnanolone were investigated in chronic epileptic rats. Allopregnanolone (2?10 mg/kg) was injected thrice daily for 5 days for two weeks and animals were monitored for spontaneous seizures. Results: Repeated administration of pilocarpine resulted in persistent SE after 2?3 injections. Rats developed SRS after a latency of 35?50 days after pilocarpine treatment. The average seizure frequency was 4 seizures per 5 days. However, there was no tendency of increased frequency of SRS during the chronic period. To verify the occurrence of spontaneous seizures, we recorded EEG from two distinct areas (hippocampus and cortex) in pilocarpine-treated rats. Generally, the epileptiform discharges and paroxysms were well correlated with behavioral motor seizures. Rats showed variable intermittent spikes and burst of spikes. In allopregnanolone-treated rats, the frequency of SRS was dramatically reduced as well as the intensity of electrographic activity as compared with predrug and postdrug control period. Conclusions: In conclusion, the GABAergic neurosteroid allopregnanolone exhibited efficacy against spontaneous seizures in the rat pilocarpine model of chronic epilepsy. Pilocarpine model was selected because it replicates several clinical features of human TLE and allows testing new drugs on the frequency and severity of spontaneous seizures. 1 Maithili Sashindranath, 2 Karen J. McLean, 3 Ian A. Trounce, 1 Richard G.H. Cotton, and 2 Mark J. Cook ( 1 Genomic Disorders Research Centre, St Vincents Hospital, Fitzroy, VIC, Australia ; 2 Centre for Clinical Neurosciences and Neurological Research, St Vincents Hospital, Fitzroy, VIC, Australia ; and 3 Centre for Neurosciences, University of Melbourne, Fitzroy, VIC, Australia ) Rationale: Epilepsy is known to result from complex molecular and biochemical events, most of which have not yet been elucidated. Oxidative stress, mediated by an increase in free radical production, is believed to play a major role in seizure-induced cell death that may cause hippocampal sclerosis, which is particularly common in temporal lobe epilepsy (Patel, 2002, Jefferys, 1999). Oxidative stress can cause severe and irreversible mitochondrial damage. Mitochondrial dysfunction leads to neuronal death, thus presenting a link between seizure-induced oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. The hypothesis of this study is that seizures result in increased free radical production; the free-radical induced attack of mitochondrial DNA results in increased mitochondrial DNA mutation that causes hippocampal cell death and consequently cell loss. The cell death may also be related to the cognitive changes seen in some seizure disorders. Methods: An immunohistochemical analysis of markers of oxidative damage to DNA, lipids and proteins is being carried out in specimens of mouse tissue sourced initially from wildtype C57BL6 mice and later from superoxide dismutase 2 (Sod2) knockout mice, that have been induced to have seizures via amygdala kindling. Studies will also be performed on tissue from human subjects who have undergone hippocampal resection. Results: Immunohistochemistry has revealed that 4-hydroxy 2-nonenal (4HNE), a marker of lipid peroxidation is present in higher quantities in the brains of kindled mice. Conclusions: Oxidative stress may be an element in ongoing brain injury in people with epilepsy and may also contribute to the enduring seizure state. Modifying such oxidative damage may provide novel neuroprotective strategies in epilepsy. Our preliminary studies indicate that oxidative stress is definitely present in brains of mice that have been induced to have seizures. In the next few months, we aim to increase our sample size, conduct a similar analysis on human brain tissue and also establish the cellular localization of the markers, in order to determine the effect of the oxidative damage on the mitochondria. REFERENCES Jefferys, JGR. Hippocampal sclerosis and temporal lobe epilepsy: cause or consequence Brain. 1999;122: 1007?1008. Patel MN. Oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and epilepsy. Free Radic Res. 2002;36: 1139?46 (Supported by Genomic Disorders Research Centre University of Melbourne Leslie Eric Paddle Fund for Neurology.) 1 Pauline Rangel, 1,2 Ricardo M. Arida, 2,3 Roberta M. Cysneiros, 2 Carla A. Scorza, 1,2 Marly De Albuquerque, 2 Esper A. Cavalheiro, and 1,2 Fulvio A. Scorza ( 1 Engenharia Biomedica, Universidade de Mogi das Cruzes, Mogi das Cruzes, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; 2 Neurology, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 3 Departamento de Farmacologia, Universidade Sao Camilo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The aim of our study was to further characterize the capacity of lovastatin to prevent hippocampal neuronal loss after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) Methods: Adult male Wistar rats were divided into three groups: (A) control rats (n = 05), received neither pilocarpine nor lovastatin; (B) rats that received just pilocarpine (n = 05); (C) rats that received pilocarpine and lovastatin (n = 05). After pilocarpina injection (350mg/kg, i.p.), only rats that displayed continuous, convulsive seizure activity were included in our study. Seizure activity was monitored behaviorally and terminated with an injection of diazepam (10 mg/kg, i.p.) after 4 h of convulsive SE. The rats treated with lovastatin received two doses of 20mg/kg via an oesophagic probe 20 minutes and 24 hours after SE. Seven days after pilocarpine-induced SE, all the animals were perfused and their brains were processed for histological analysis through Nissl and Neo-Timm methods. Results: The cell counts in the Nissl-stained sections performed within the hippocampal formation showed a significant cell loss in rats that received pilocarpine and presented SE (CA1 = 27.08 ± 7.65; CA3 = 38.22 ± 3.98; hilus = 46.02 ± 1.79) when compared with control group animals (CA1 = 53.16 ± 5.17; CA3 = 65.06 ± 6.18; hilus = 57.8 ± 5.35). The average neuronal cell number of CA1 subfield of rats that present SE and received lovastatin (52.57 ± 6.91) was statically significant increased when compared with animals that just presented Conclusions: Lovastatin exert a neuroprotective role in the attenuation of brain damage after SE. (Supported by FAEP, FAPESP, CNPq and CAPES.) 1 Mariana T. Todorova, 1 John G. Mantis, 1 Minh Li, 1 Christina Y. Kim, and 1 Thomas N. Seyfried ( 1 Biology, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA ) Rationale: Most common human epilepsies have multifactorial etiologies and their development depends on a combination of both genetic and environmental factors. While significant progress has been made in gene identification for monogenic epilepsies, failure to identify and measure environmental risk factors has hindered progress in gene identification for multifactorial epilepsies. In this study, we analyzed the role of environmental factors on gene identification for multifactorial epilepsy in the EL mouse. The EL mouse is a model for age-dependent generalized idiopathic epilepsy and expresses complex partial seizures with secondary generalization. Methods: The inheritance of seizures was analyzed in the seizure susceptible EL (E) and seizure resistant ABP/LeJ (A) parental strains, and in their AEF1 and AEF2 hybrid offspring using a gentle handling-induced seizure susceptibility test paradigm. The seizure tests were administered in three environments that included: test initiation once/month beginning at 30 days and ending at 141 days (Environment I); a single test initiated at 150 days (Environment II); test initiation once/month beginning at 150 days and ending at 261 days (Environment III). Quantitative trait loci (QTL) were analyzed using simple sequence length polymorphisms and Mapmaker/QTL software. A total of 691 mice were analyzed. Results: The inheritance of seizure susceptibility appeared dominant in Environments I and III, but appeared recessive in Environment II. Significant QTL, which were associated with repetitive seizure testing, were found on Chromosomes 2 and 9 and co-localized with the previously mapped El2 and El4 genes, respectively. Significant gender effects on gene mapping were detected only in Environment I. A novel QTL, El-N (Epilepsy-Naïve quantitative trait locus), for age-dependent predisposition to seizures was found only in Environments II and III on proximal Chromosome 9 and differed from the previously identified El1. Conclusions: Environmental risk factors including age, gender, and recurrent seizures influence the inheritance and genetic architecture of seizure susceptibility in EL mice. The findings suggest that QTL for multifactorial epilepsy and possibly other age-dependent complex traits should be defined in terms of the environment in which they are expressed. (Supported by NIH grants NS23355 and HD39722, the Boston College Research Fund, and the Epilepsy Foundation.) 1 Sophia F. Shakur, 1 Teemu Tha, 1 Michael S. Tsimis, 1 John Chua-Tuan, and 1 Jehuda P. Sepkuty ( 1 Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: 1. To investigate the association between semaphorin 3F-neuropilin-2 (Sema3F-Npn-2) signaling and epilepsy, using knockout mice. 2. To determine hippocampal involvement in seizures of sema3F knockout mice, using depth wire recording. Sema3F-Npn-2 signaling is required for the proper targeting of the infrapyramidal tract in the hippocampus [sahay,Tessier-Lavigne]. In epilepsy models there is a dramatic decrease in semaphorin levels [Barnes,Holtmaat]. These observations along with the known histopathology of hippocampal sclerosis (mossy fiber sprouting), the observed phenotype of the sema3F knockout mouse (staring) and the localization of Sema3F ligand and Npn-2 receptor in synaptic-rich areas of the hippocampus, prompted us to hypothesize that: 1) Sema3F and npn-2 knockouts have epilepsy. 2) This may be temporal lobe epilepsy. 3) These mice may serve as new models for epileptogenesis. So far, we have shown that sema3F knockouts have epilepsy [Sahay2005]. Here, we heve further pursued objective 1 by examining the association of neuropilin-2 and epilepsy and objective 2 by performing depth wire recordings in sema3F knockouts to evaluate the role of the hippocampus in their seizures. Methods: Depth electrodes were implanted into the hippocampus of knockout mice and wild-type controls using a stereotaxic manipulator. Histology confirmed depth wire placement in the hippocampus. EEG and behavior were monitored daily. Seizure susceptibility was assessed by PTZ. Results: Npn-2 Knockout Mice. Scalp EEG recordings suggest that npn-2 knockout mice have epileptic seizures manifested by staring episodes. Additionally, behavioral monitoring indicate that npn-2 knockout mice have significantly fewer exploratory episodes (p = 0.012) and significantly more stationary episodes (p = 0.005) compared to wild-type controls. Depth EEG Recordings  2 Psychology, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; 3 Government, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX ; and 4 Anesthesiology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD ) Rationale: Evidence has shown that anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) can distinctively alter EEG rhythms and neuronal bursting in thalamocortical networks. We will show that anterior thalamus (AN) to cortex coherence is changed by ethosuximide (ESM) treatment prior to pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) seizures in rats. Coherence modulation is due to alpha wave generation in the cortex. Novel alpha wave production occurs locally without a concomitant presence thalamically. Prior work demonstrated the selective involvement of AN over the posterior thalamus (PT) in PTZ seizures with partial coherence spectral methods. Methods: Eight SD rats (4 exp  p < 0.04). The growth in network coupling is evident particularly inside the alpha band frequency band. In the mid to high alpha rhythm there is a significant rise in AN-to-cortex BISCOH for ESM-treated animals. This suggests the presence of new alpha wave signaling in cortex. Simple t-tests show growth in AN to cortical BISCOH after ESM at 10 Hz: (0.579 vs 1.209; p ≤ 0.02) and 12 Hz: (0.63 vs 1.37; p < 0.007). MANOVA coupled with Bonferroni-Scheffe measures show differences at each frequency at the p < 0.05 level in AN. PT levels remain unchanged with the addition of the AED. Conclusions: AEDs can affect thalamocortical communication. Increases in EEG synchronization occur after AED treatment. Conventional coherence based on spectral measurements may register these changes as dissociative since they reflect harmonic generation at the cortical destination after propagation. Newer coherence measuring tools expand the notion of thalamocortical communication to include enhanced nonlinear coupling. Bispectral EEG methods remain useful tools for discriminating seizure states after AED treatment within specific functional epileptic networks. (Supported by NIH R01-NS35528  2 Medical Research Service, Durham VAMC, Durham, NC ; and 3 Dept. of Molecular Biomedical Sciences, CVM, NC State University, Raleigh, NC ) Rationale: We hypothesize that minimal hippocampal injury following the status epilepticus (SE) is adequate for triggering significant epileptogenesis, and greater levels of hippocampal neurodegeneration and aberrant mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) are not associated with increased frequency of spontaneous recurrent motor seizures (SRMS). To address these issues, we rigorously examined the links between the extent of hippocampal neurodegeneration, the frequency of SRMS and the degree of aberrant MFS after kainic acid (KA)-induced SE in adult male F344 rats. Methods: Kainic acid (3 mg/Kg b.w./hr, i.p.) was administered every hr for 3?4 hrs to induce continuous stages III-V seizures for over 3 hrs. Control rats were treated similarly with saline for comparison. Groups of KA-treated and saline-treated rats were euthanized at 4-days post-treatment for neurodegeneration analyses. Additional groups of KA-treated rats were observed continuously for 3 months (6?8 hrs/week; starting from the 3rd month after KA) for the occurrence of SRMS and killed at 5-months post-KA for hippocampal neurodegeneration and aberrant MFS analyses. Results: KA-induced status epilepticus caused bilateral hippocampal injury (HI) in all rats when examined at 4 days post-KA. While a majority (77%) exhibited moderate neurodegeneration in the dentate hilus and the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 subfields, a smaller fraction (23%) exhibited massive neurodegeneration in all of these regions and died within 10 days. All surviving KA-treated rats displayed SRMS at 3-months post-KA and the severity and duration of the SRMS increased over time. Stereological analyses of the surviving neurons at 5-months post-KA revealed two subgroups of rats: one with moderate HI (56%) and another with severe HI (44%). Rats with severe HI exhibited greater level of the aberrant MFS than rats with moderate HI. However, the frequency and duration of SRMS was highly comparable between rats with moderate HI and rats with severe HI. Conclusions: The results suggest that the occurrence of SRMS at extended time-points after the KA-induced SE is consistently associated with significant bilateral hippocampal neurodegeneration and bilateral aberrant MFS. However, the results also underscore that neither the frequency nor the duration SRMS does not increase further with greater levels of hippocampal neurodegeneration and the aberrant MFS. Thus, minimal hippocampal injury after the status epilepticus is adequate for triggering epileptogenesis and SRMS in this rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by grants from National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (RO1 NS 043507 to A.K.S.), and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA Merit Review Award to A.K.S.).) 1 Don Shin, 1 JoAnne Nakagawa, 1,3 Stephane Auvin, 1 Rinat Jonas, and 1,2 Raman Sankar ( 1 Pediatrics, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; 2 Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; and 3 Pediatric Neurology, Lille University Hospital, Lille, France ) Rationale: Lithium pilocarpine status epilepticus (LiPC) that is allowed to continue uninterrupted results in widespread neuronal injury in the developing rat brain. The hippocampus of the rat shows a developmental pattern of SE-induced injury that is age specific. Using pharmacological interventions to stop SE reduces the extent of the hippocampal injury. Here, we try to determine whether there exits a temporal window to stop SE before the onset of widespread injury. Methods: Under isoflurane anesthesia, 2 and 3-wk old Wistar rat pups were implanted with wireless recording modules (Data Sciences Inc.). The recording leads were placed onto the dura and secured with adhesive. Rats were pretreated 16?20hr with 3mEq LiCl (ip), followed by 60mg/kg PC (sc) to induce SE at postnatal day 14 or 21. Control rats were treated identically, but given saline in place of PC. 30, 90, 120, 150 or 180 min after the initiation of SE or saline injection, rats were given 5mg/kg diazepam + 25mg/kg phenobarbital (ip). EEGs were analyzed offline for initiation and cessation of SE using Harmonie seizure detection software (Stellate Sytems). Rats were killed 24hr after the start of SE, and their brains cut at 8microns for cell counts using H antigravity muscle tone permits seizure-related movement. 2) Neural generators of asynchronous neuronal discharge patterns can reduce EEG seizures during REM sleep; skeletal motor paralysis blocks seizure-related movement during REM. 3) Several similarities in seizure, autistic and sleep manifestations  Same seizure types; IIDs in 100% of cases; Same IID types  ? foci change over time ? seizures, esp. GTCs, start 1st in 98% of kittens; ? seizures, esp. partial, follow aphasia onset in 50% of LKS SLEEP PATTERNS NREM onset seizures; ? IIDs  Sleep deficits Sleep GTCs only, then waking; Occasional West Syndrome symptoms in kittens vs. ESES on LKS DEVELOPMENTAL BEHAVIORAL DEFICITS ? sensitivity  Social isolation; Mood change, stereotypies, hyperactive,atonic/dystonic  Self-injurious; Sexual dysfunction PROGNOSIS  PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Subtle cell loss at foci and sites implicated in other symptoms; NE  ?= decreased or infrequent; IIDs = interictal discharges; AEDs = antiepileptic drigs; ESES-Electrical Status Epilepticus in Sleep 1 Germán Sierra-Marcuño, 1 Teresa Oreiro-García, 1 Dolores Vazquez-Illanes, and 1 Germán Sierra-Paredes ( 1 Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical School, University of Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, La Coruña, Spain ) Rationale: BIA 2-093 [(S)-(-)-10-acetoxy-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz/b,f/azepine-5-carboxamide] is a novel antiepileptic drug endowed with an anticonvulsant potency similar to that of carbamazepine, and shares with carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine the capability to inhibit voltage-gated sodium channels. BIA 2-093 is efficacious against maximal electroshock seizure induced seizures, protects against picrotoxin-induced seizures in mice and rats, and prevents development of kindling in rats. We have tested the effect of BIA 2-093 on latrunculin A-induced seizures, and its effect on the increase in extracellular glutamate levels induced by latrunculin A. Methods: Rat hippocampus was continuously perfused with a latrunculin A solution (4?M) through CMA/12 microdialysis probes at a flow rate of 2 ?l/min during 8 hours with continuous EEG and videotape recording for 3 consecutive days. The same protocol was repeated after oral administration of BIA 2-093 (10 and 30 mg/kg).Samples from the microdialysate were collected and analyzed by HPLC using pre-column derivatization with 6-aminoquinolyl-N-hydroxysuccinimidyl carbamate (AQC) and fluorescence detection. Results: Continuous microperfusion of latrunculin A alone induced a variable number of seizures (4.3± 2.7) in the 90% of the animals studied and a significant increase in basal glutamate concentrations (from 27.6± 8.2 mM to 62.1± 14.9 mM four h after perfusion; p < 0.01). BIA 2-093, at both doses of 30 and 10 mg/kg, completely supressed seizures and significantly reduced extracellular glutamate concentrations (26.8±6.6 mM and 18.1±5.3 for doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg respectively; p < 0.01 when compared with latrunculin A treatment). Conclusions: BIA 2-093, at oral doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg, shows an excellent antiepileptic effect against seizures induced by latrunculin A microperfusion in the rat hippocampus. The molecular mechaninsms of latrunculin A seizures are still unknown, however, the increase in extracellular glutamate concentrations observed during latrunculin A microperfusion are completely reversed by BIA 2-093. (Supported by BIAL (Portugal).) 1 Matthew D. Smyth, 1 Justin Burton, 1 Gregory A. Peebles, 2 Devin K. Binder, and 3 Steven M. Rothman ( 1 Neurosurgery, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ; 2 Neurosurgery, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 3 Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: When epileptogenic regions encroach upon or involve eloquent brain, surgical options are limited and may incur unacceptable neurologic deficits. Reversible cooling of epileptogenic regions may control seizure activity while preserving neurologic function. We describe a novel animal model to investigate the effects of brain cooling on kindled seizures in awake, freely moving rats. Methods: Ten adult male rats underwent unilateral craniotomy, stereotaxic placement of a bipolar electrode into the dorsal hippocampus (ML +2.0 mm, AP -3.0 mm, DV -3.3 mm) and fixation of a copper cooling coil directly over the kindling site. Animals were kindled with 400?A 60-Hz 1-msec square wave pulses for 1 sec twice daily until 3 consecutive grade 5 seizures were recorded. The kindling electrode also served as a monopolar lead for digital EEG acquisition (Biopac, Goleta, CA). Fully kindled animals were cooled to one of two target temperatures (24° or 27°C) for three minutes preceding a kindling stimulation and two minutes after. Seizure score (0?5) and after-discharge duration (ADD) were recorded with and without cooling. Target temperatures were confirmed in another eight animals using a needle thermocouple advanced stereotaxically to the kindling target while circulating coolant (8° or 16°C). Results: Circulation of 16°C and 8°C coolant reliably achieved transcortical cooling of the hippocampal target to 26.5°C (± 0.16°C) and 23.5°C (± 0.61°C), respectively. Temperature stabilization occurred after 120 seconds. Three consecutive grade 5 seizures were achieved after a mean of 42.1 (± 4.6 SEM) kindling stimulations. Cooling to 26.5°C (n = 5) reduced seizure scores to 2.81 ±0.44, and ADD from123s ±14.6 to 49s ±8.2 (p < 0.001, Student's t test). Cooling to 23.5°C (n = 5) reduced seizure scores to 2.0 ±0.31, and ADD from 132s ±11.7 to 55s ±8.7 (p < 0.001). Grade 5 seizures recurred for subsequent kindling stimulations with cooling withheld. Conclusions: Fully kindled, tonic-clonic seizures can be suppressed or aborted with peri-ictal cooling of the kindling target. Anticonvulsant activity occurred at temperatures well above those known to result in tissue injury or inhibition of normal neurologic function. These findings have important implications for the potential use of implantable cooling devices in humans with refractory epilepsies in or near eloquent cortex or dominant hippocampal formations. (Supported by Department of Neurosurgery, Washington University, St. Louis, MO.) 1,2 O. Carter Snead III, and 1,2 Katherine F.Y. Chan ( 1 Pediatrics (Neurology)/Brain  and 2 Pediatrics  26:395), but the relation of the seizures to the mental retardation is unknown. We have used an animal model of atypical absence seizures, the AY 9944 (AY) model to investigate this question. This model bears clinical and electrographic resemblance to the human condition (Cortez et al, Neurology 2001; 56:341) including abnormal learning and memory. We have shown previously that while the seizures are blocked by anti-absence drugs such as ethosuximide, this drug does not reverse the learning deficits in this model (Chan et al. Pharmacol Biochem Behav 2004; 190:328). The object of the following experiments was to test the hypothesis that a seizure-independent, gamma amino butyric acid (B) [GABA(B)] receptor-mediated mechanism underlies the learning impairment in the AY-model of atypical absence seizures. Methods: The AY model of atypical absence seizures was created as described (Cortez et al, 2001). Chronic epidural electrodes were surgically implanted after weaning for ECoG recording to quantify the total slow spike wave discharge (SSWD) duration. For behavioral learning and memory testing the spatial working and reference memory of AY-treated and control animals were evaluated in an eight-arm radial arm maze (RAM) (Chan et al. 2004). Long term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal slice preparations from AY-treated animals and controls was done as described (Chan et al. 2004). A graduated series of doses of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist, 3-aminopropyl(diethoxymethyl)phosphinic acid [CGP 35348 (CGP)]) or 0.9% NaCl was administered to AY-treated animals prior to either RAM testing, ECoG recordings, or sacrifice for LTP recordings. Results: High doses of CGP blocked SSWD and reversed the learning deficits in the AY-treated animals. Low doses of CGP failed to alter the SSWD duration in AY-treated animals; however, the dose of CGP that had no effect on AY-induced atypical absence seizures resulted in a significant improvement in the spatial memory task which recovered in the low dose CGP/AY group to the level of the non-epileptic control group. Similarly, the impaired LTP observed in the AY controls, also was restored to control baseline in the presence of low dose CGP in rats with AY-induced atypical absence seizures. Conclusions: The data suggest that the cognitive impairment in the AY model of atypical absence seizures is independent of the SSWD and raise the possibility that GABA(B) receptor antagonists (Froestl et al. Biochem Pharmacol 2004; 68:1479) may have clinical utility in treatment of both atypical absence seizures (high dose) and deficits in cognition (low dose) in children with Lennox Gastaut syndrome. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1,2 Sridhar Sunderam, 1,2 Nathalia Peixoto, 1,2 Nick Chernyy, 1,2 Jonathan P. Mason, 4 Steven L. Weinstein, 1,3 Steven J. Schiff, and 1,2 Bruce J. Gluckman ( 1 Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ; 2 Department of Physics and Astronomy, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ; 3 Department of Psychology, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA ; and 4 Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Accurate brain state discrimination and the ability to identify both normal and abnormal state and state transitions is critical for development of continuous feedback algorithms for control of seizures. Prior methods for states of vigilance discrimination used EEG spectral measures alone. Here, we show that head acceleration measured using biaxial microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) accelerometers significantly enhances sleep-wake staging in rats implanted with bilateral hippocampal depth and cortical EEG electrodes. Methods: Rats were video and EEG monitored continuously for 7 days and digital recordings made of the EEG and acceleration signals acquired using custom made electronics which included DC sensitive accelerometers in the headstage. An EEG expert inspected video and EEG to classify sequential 15 s epochs of representative 1 hour recordings into different sleep-wake stages: Awake, Quiet Sleep and REM Sleep. Observed awake behavior was also labeled and divided into three categories: Exploration/Repositioning, Eating/Drinking/Grooming and Quiet/Twitching. Total power (dB) in four frequency bands (0.5?3.9, 4.0?7.9, 8?12.9, 13.1?50 Hz) was measured in 1 sec windows of the EEG (2 cortical, 2 depth) and head acceleration (x and y axes) and averaged over each 15 s epoch. The data was divided into two equal halves, a training set and a test set, and the 24 features were used to perform a linear discriminant analysis of the training set. Results: The leave-one-out classification error for sleep-wake stages was 9% (p < 0.01) using only EEG features, and improved to 6.8% (p < 0.01) when acceleration features were included (Figure 1). Similar performance was obtained for the behavioral state classification. Applying the linear classifier to the test data set gave significant agreement (p < 0.01) of over 90% for sleep-wake and behavior classification. Conclusions: Head acceleration measurements with EEG not only significantly improved the ability to discriminate broad transitions between REM sleep, quiet sleep and waking, but also distinguish patterns highly distinctive of behavior such as grooming, twitching or feeding. This capability will be especially useful in automatically detecting and selectively treating seizures using feedback control. (Supported by NIH Grants R01EB001507, K02MH01493, and R01MH50006.) 1 [Sleep-wake state discrimination using EEG and acceleration features] 1 C. Akos Szabo, 2, 5 M. Michelle Leland, 1 Koyle Knape, 3 James J. Elliott, 3 Vicky L. Haines, and 4, 5 Jeff T. Williams ( 1 Department of Medicine/Neurology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX ; 2 Department of Comparative Medicine, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San Antonio, TX ; 3 Laboratory Animal Research, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX ; and 4 Department of Genetics, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San Antonio, TX ) Rationale: Spontaneous seizures have been reported in several baboon subspecies housed at the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research (SFBR), including P.h. anubis as well as cynocephalus/anubis and other hybrids. This study classified clinical and electroencephalographic (EEG) phenotypes in these subspecies based upon interictal and ictal findings, as well as photosensitivity, by scalp EEG. Methods: One hundred baboons underwent one-hour EEG studies with photic stimulation (PS), 49 with previously witnessed seizures and 51 without. The animals were classified according to these electroclinical phenotypes: presence or absence of interictal epileptic discharges (IEDs), seizures and photoparoxysmal or photoconvulsive responses. Effects of age, gender, and species on EEG phenotypes were also examined. Results: Six discrete electroclinical phenotypes were identified. Generalized IEDs of 2?3 Hz, 4?6 Hz, and or 6?7 Hz were identified in 67 baboons. Epileptic seizures were recorded in 40 animals, including myoclonic and generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Thirty-three animals were photosensitive. Although the prevalence of IEDs and seizures were similar in seizure and asymptomatic animals, photosensitivity was more prevalent in the seizure animals (p = 0.001). P.h. anubis/cynocephalus hybrids were more likely to be photosensitive than P.h. anubis (p = 0.004). Conclusions: The P. hamadryas subspecies have a generalized, photosensitive epilepsy. The association of photosensitivity with clinically evident seizures suggests a lower seizure threshold or greater propensity for ictal propagation in seizure animals. The reliable characterization of distinct epileptic phenotypes in this pedigreed colony is critical to the success of future genetic analyses to identify genetic factors underlying their epilepsy. (Supported by the South Texas Veterans Health Care System (VISN 17) and the National Institutes of Health (1 R01 NS047755-01). This investigation was supported in part by facilities constructed with support from Research Facilities Improvement Program Grants C06 RR15456 and C06 RR014578 from the National Center for Research Resources, National Institutes of Health.) 1,2 David M. Treiman, 1,2 Levi B. Good, and 1 Steven T. Marsh ( 1 Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ; and 2 Bioengineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ ) Rationale: Status epilepticus (SE) is defined as recurrent epileptic seizures (szs) without full recovery between the szs, or as continuous sz activity for a fixed period of time (5, 10, or 30 minutes). Operationally, sz activity is identified clinically, or on the basis of EEG changes thought to be ictal. However, there is no independent measure of ?ictalness? with which to validate a clinical or EEG diagnosis of SE. We used nonlinear dynamical analysis of the EEG to attempt to identify an objective marker of SE. Methods: SE was induced in 15 week old male Sprague-Dawley rats 5 days after implantation of Teflon coated tungsten wire electrodes (175 ?m diameter); 4 in the cortex (A-P +2.0 ± 3.0 mm, and A-P -4.0 mm ± 3.0 mm lateral to midline to depth 1.0 mm) and 2 ventral hippocampal electrodes (A-P -5.6 mm ± 4.5 mm lateral to midline to depth of 5.0 mm). EEG was recorded continuously during the entire experiment with a 2 hr baseline EEG prior to SC injection of 10 mg/kg kainic acid (KA) to induce SE, and continued until cessation of epileptiform discharges. EEG SE Stages I (discrete seizures), III (continuous ictal activity), and V (periodic epileptiform discharges) (Treiman et al., Epilepsy Res. 5:49?60, 1990) were identified by visual inspection. The EEG data were analyzed using nonlinear dynamical techniques that use the convergence of the largest short-term Lyapunov exponent over time at each electrode site to statistically quantify the brain's dynamical entrainment (Iasemidis et al., IEEE TBME, 50:616?627, 2003). Results: Mean time from KA injection to onset of Stage I was 7.3 (± 2.1) min, Stage III 177.3 (± 32.1) min, and Stage V 670.3 (± 235.9) min. At onset of Stage I entrainment was observed (drop in T-index). However, this was not statistically significant with α= 0.01 and did not reset (return to baseline after each discrete seizure, as occurs with isolated seizures). Entrainment was observed to progress towards the statistical threshold and by the onset of Stage II was statistically significant. Entrainment fluctuated around the threshold throughout the remaining SE stages until the PED frequency began to slow as the rat showed spontaneous recovery (up to 36 hrs after injection; PED frequency 1 per 4?5 sec) and gradually returned to baseline. Conclusions: These results suggest that nonlinear dynamical analysis of the EEG can provide an independent marker of SE and that electrophysiologically, SE may consist of two phases. During EEG Stage I, SE is characterized by a moderate drop in the T-index with failure to reset, in contrast to what occurs with single seizures. During Stages II-V there is a greater drop in the T index which is statistically significant for entrainment and a continuing failure to reset. This observation needs to be studied in other experimental models and in human SE, but may provide another parameter for the diagnosis of SE. (Supported by Barrow Neurological Foundation.) 1 Naranzogt Tschuluun, 1 Jürgen H. Wenzel, and 1 Philip A. Schwartzkroin ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA ) Rationale: Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a genetically-based disorder that is often associated with early-onset epilepsy. The mechanisms that link the structural pathology of TSC to seizure activity are poorly understood. We have investigated morphological and physiological features the brain of a TSC animal model - the Eker rat ? in which there is a mutation in the TSC2 gene, and characterized the consequences of a ?second hit? insult, varying the dose of ?-irradiation delivered at different developmental time-points. Methods: Eker (TSC2+/?) and wildtype rats were exposed to ionizing irradiation (Cs-based ?- ray) at ages E18, P1, P2, P3, P4 and P5. Irradiation dose ranged from 400 to 750 cGy. Flurothyl seizure threshold testing was performed at 1 and 3 months post-irradiation. Histological procedures were carried out at either one or three months post-irradiation to quantify pathological cell features. At 2?3 months post-irradiation, a sub-group of animals was studied with slice electrophysiological procedures; population responses to paired-pulse stimulation were recorded from the deep layers of neocortex to evaluate cortical excitability. Results: Seizure threshold: In irradiated animals (750 cGy), seizure threshold was reduced (compared to non-irradiated rats) at 3 months post-irradiation but not at 1 month. There was no significant difference between irradiated wildtype and irradiated Eker rats. Histology: Irradiation (400?750cGy) of Eker (but not wildtype) rat pups, at ages E18 to P6, induced an increase in the number of dysmorphic neurons in the neocortex. This increase was modest at one month post-irradiation, but was substantial at three months (a 4-5-fold increase compared to one month). To induce cell pathology, optimal time of irradiation was 3?4 days postnatal. The higher irradiation doses (700?750cGy) induced a 2-3-fold greater increase in the number of dysmorphic neurons and giant astrocytes compared to the lower doses (400?650cGy) (irrespective of time of irradiation); this difference was found at both one and three months post-irradiation. Physiology. Non-irradiated wildtype animals showed fEPSP amplitude facilitation at shorter interpulse intervals (20?50ms) and depression at longer intervals (100?140 ms). Irradiated Eker rat cortex showed relatively little change in the fEPSP ratio over the paired-pulse intervals tested. Conclusions: Early postnatal ionizing irradiation of Eker rats exacerbated cortical pathology in a dose-dependent manner. The degree of histopathology increased between one and three months post-irradiation ? a change that was mirrored in the time-dependent decrease of seizure threshold. Preliminary electrophysiological data from irradiated Eker rat cortex suggest that the evolving structural abnormalities are reflected in aberrant cortical (Supported by NIH/NINDS grant # NS 18895 (PAS) and an EF postdoctoral fellowship (NT).) 1 Gilles Van Luijtelaar, 2 Ayten Azizova, and 2 Filiz Onat ( 1 Biological Psychology, NICI, Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, Netherlands ; and 2 Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Marmara University, Hayderpasa, Istanbul, Turkey ) Rationale: Evidence is accumulating that absence seizures have a cortical origin. Based on neurophysiological studies, immunocytochemistry, morphometric in vitro and pharmacological studies in vivo it has been demonstrated that various disturbances in the somatosensory cortex in WAG/Rij, but also in GAERS, might underly the origin of the spike-wave discharges (SWD), the electroencephalographic hallmark of absence seizures. Here we investigated whether local (at the somatosensory cortex) application of phenytoine, a drug that promotes SWD after systemic administration, is effective in reducing the number of SWD. Methods: Adult male WAG/Rij rats were equipped cortical EEG electrodes and bilateral canulla's for cortical administraion of the drug. Canulla's were located at the peri-oral part of the somatosensory cortex. Rats were either systemically injected with a dose of 40 mg/kg phenytoin or saline, or with 360 pmol/500 nl per side and Ringer as control. EEG's were recorded one hour before and after two hours after administration, number and mean duration of SWD were quantified. Results: Systemic injection of phenytoin doubled the number (p < .05) the number of SWD, the effect ocured immediately and persisted for 2 hours. In contrast, local injection of phenytoin reduced (p < .01) the number of SWD, also for at least 2 hours. In fact all SWDs were nearly abolished. Conclusions: The results demonstrate that phenytoin has opposite effects on absence seizures: the are aggravated after systemic administration, but reduced after administration to the somatosensory cortex. The results are also in favour of the cortical focus theory of absence epilepsy which suggests that absence epilepsy is secondary generalized. 1 H. Jurgen Wenzel, 1 Robert F. Berman, 1 Kimberley Katleba, 1 Yeung Lo, 1 Peggy Jaubert, 1 Mareike Wenzel, 1 Ari Altangerel, and 1 Philip A. Schwartzkroin ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California at Davis, Davis, CA ) Rationale: A significant proportion of children diagnosed with autistic spectrum disorders presents with seizure abnormalities. Recent clinical data suggest that serotonin (5-HT) function is disrupted in autistic patients. Serotonin plays a significant role in brain development, in sleep-wake cycles, and in the modulation of cortical excitability. We hypothesized that disruption of the serotonin system in immature rats would lead to autism-relevant behaviors and aberrant patterns of brain excitability. To test this hypothesis, we have begun to characterize a model of ?hyperserotonemia? developed by Whitaker-Azmitia and colleagues (Physiol. Behav. 2002: 75:403?410). Methods: Time-mated pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with a non-specific 5-HT receptor agonist, 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MT) (1mg/kg, s.c.), once a day from gestational day 12 through postnatal day 21 (P21); time-mated control animals were injected with saline. Immature animals (between P7 and P19) were tested on a battery of ?autism-relevant? behavioral tasks (e.g., ultrasonic vocalization (USV) when separated from dam, open field exploration, negative geotaxis, response to tactile stimulation). They were then monitored with video/EEG telemetry, with subsets of animals sacrificed (at P27) for assessment of alterations in brain serotonergic innervation, using quantitative immunocytochemistry. Results: 5-MT treatment led to inconsistent behavioral differences compared to saline-injected controls. At P19 (but not earlier), 5-MT pups exhibited decreased USV. There were no significant differences between 5-MT and saline pups on a negative geotaxis task, on open field exploration (with and without auditory stimulation), on response to tactile stimulation, and on spontaneous alternation in a Y-maze. Video/EEG recording showed a significant number of spike-like epileptiform events in 5-MT animals, but not in control rats. Immunocytochemistry for serotonin- including quantitative measurements of fiber immunoreactivity (IR) in selected brain regions - revealed significant increases (compared to age-matched controls) in hippocampal CA3 subfield and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala; 5-HT IR in central amygdala, neocortex (lamina V in parietal cortex) and lateral nucleus of the dorsal raphe showed no significant differences. Conclusions: Early 5-MT treatment failed to yield the expected range of behavioral changes in rat pups, although decreased USV in 5-MT-treated animals is arguably consistent with an autism-like deficit. The ?hyperserotonemic? 5-MT model is associated with significant region-specific increases in serotonin fiber IR, a finding opposite to the initially hypothesized change. 5-MT treated pups did show EEG abnormalities that may be consistent with increased seizure propensity in some individuals with autism. (Supported by a grant from UC Davis M.I.N.D. Institute.) 1 Andrew M. White, 2 Philip A. Williams, 2 Susan Clark, 2 Damien J. Ferraro, 3 F. Edward Dudek, and 1 Kevin J. Staley ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO ; 2 Department of Biomedical Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO ; and 3 Department of Physiology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ) Rationale: To improve treatment of human epilepsy, animal models are developed to determine the effectiveness of anticonvulsants. The kainate model of temporal lobe epilepsy has been investigated extensively and produces rats which are chronically epileptic. To fully understand the results and statistical significance of drug studies, it is necessary to understand the expected variation in seizure number and duration over a fixed period. Methods: For this study we consider 11 two month old Sprague-Dawley rats implanted with EEG radio-telemetry units. The rats were treated with varying doses of kainate and monitored using a video-EEG system for up to 5 months. EEG seizures were identified using routines written in Visual Basic 6.0 (DClamp software) and expert confirmation. Results: We have determined that there are three distinct phases after kainate-treatment: (1) a latent phase which extends up to 5 months in which there are sporadic, clustered seizures, (2) a transitional phase, in which the number of seizures increases dramatically, and (3) a stable epileptic phase in which the rats have frequent seizures. We determined the daily and 5 day average variability in each of these phases of both the number of seizures and the time spent seizing. We expressed this as the mean fractional change in these parameters, defined as the average change in the seizure parameter (either number of seizures or total length of time seizing) from one period to the next, divided by the mean value of the parameter during the phase. The average daily and 5 day changes during phase 1 were 0.96 and 0.64 for the number of seizures and 1.10 and 0.67 for the time spent seizing. Much of the reason for the large variability in daily seizure occurrence was due to seizure clustering. During both the transition phase and the stable phase, the variability decreased dramatically. For the transition phase the average daily mean fractional change in number of seizures was 0.32 for the stable epileptic phase, the average daily mean fractional change was 0.23. Conclusions: Consideration of differences in variance of seizure frequency are important in the design of experiments using the kainate model of temporal lobe epilepsy. From these results it is evident that studies performed while the rats are in the ?latent phase.? For example, investigations of epileptogenesis will require either larger numbers of animals or longer observation times to achieve statistical significance in the face of higher variance in seizure frequency. Studies performed during the two later phases will more easily yield significant results. (Supported by the NIH.) 1 H. Steve White, 2 Markus Schmutz, 2 Mario Pozza, 1 Harold Wolf, 3 Jim Stables, and 3 Harvey Kupferberg ( 1 University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ; 2 Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Basel, Switzerland ; and 3 National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Bethesda, MD ) Rationale: Rufinamide (1-[2,6-difluorobenzyl]-1H-1,2,3-triazole-4-carboxamide) is a structurally unique antiepileptic drug (AED) that interacts with inactivated sodium channels to limit high-frequency firing of neuron action potentials. This investigation compares the preclinical anticonvulsant profile and tolerability of rufinamide to those of established AEDs, including phenytoin (PHT), phenobarbital (PB), ethosuximide (ESM), and sodium valproate (VPA). Methods: Doses of each AED were administered via both oral (CF1 mice and Sprague-Dawley rats) and intraperitoneal (IP) (CF1 mice) routes; a minimum of 8 animals received each dose and at least 5 doses were administered per test. For both species and administration routes, the maximal electroshock (MES) test evaluated the efficacy of rufinamide against seizure spread and predicted its effectiveness against tonic-clonic (and also partial) seizures in man; subcutaneous pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) tested for raised seizure threshold and protection against clonic seizures. Mice receiving the IP dose were also administered subcutaneous strychnine (STR) to evaluate protection against tonic seizures, and subcutaneous bicuculline (BIC) and picrotoxin (PIC) to further characterize elevations in seizure threshold and clonic-seizure protection. Tolerance was assessed over 5 days with the MES test in orally administered rats. The effective dose (ED50) for each AED was defined as the amount of drug necessary to achieve a 50% decrease of induced seizure frequency. Minimal neurotoxic dose (TD50) was determined with the chimney test (rats) or the rotorod test (6 rpm) at time of peak neurotoxic effect (mice). Results: Oral rufinamide was protective against MES-induced tonic-clonic seizures in both mice and rats (ED50, 23.9 and 6.1 mg/kg, respectively) and suppressed PTZ-induced seizures in mice (ED50, 45.8 mg/kg); tolerance was not observed. Intraperitoneal rufinamide suppressed PTZ-, BIC-, and PIC-induced clonus (ED50, 54.5, 50.5, and 76.3 mg/kg, respectively) in IP-administered mice and was partially effective in the mouse STR test. For both species and delivery routes, rufinamide tolerability exceeded or was similar to that of any established AED except PHT administered orally to rats. For all tests, the protective index (ratio of TD50 to anticonvulsant ED50) of rufinamide was greater than that of any established AED. Conclusions: Rufinamide displayed a broad-spectrum anticonvulsant profile in mice and rats at doses where no side effects were observed. Rufinamide was well-tolerated by animals of both species, and the protective indices determined for rufinamide were superior to those of established AEDs. (Supported by Eisai Inc.) 1,4 Jeff T. Williams, 3,4 M. Michelle Leland, 2 Koyle D. Knape, and 2 C. ?kos Szabó ( 1 Genetics, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San Antonio, TX ; 2 Medicine/Neurology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX ; 3 Comparative Medicine, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San Antonio, TX ; and 4 Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, TX ) Rationale: Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research (SFBR) in San Antonio, TX, manages the world's largest baboon colony, currently comprising about 3800 baboons. More than 1500 baboons?primarily P.h.anubis (64%), P.h.cynocephalus (4%), and their hybrids (29%)?are members of a single pedigree that is used for genetic analysis. The baboon is ideal for development as a genetic model of human disorders because baboon and human share many genetic, anatomical, biochemical, and physiological features, and we are using the colony at SFBR to develop the baboon as a nonhuman primate animal model for the genetics of idiopathic generalized epilepsy in humans. Methods: It has long been known that baboons at SFBR suffer spontaneous seizures. The prevalence of seizures in the baboon colony is 20?30%, and about 10?20 new cases per year are reported, corresponding to an incidence of about 2%. We are undertaking a retrospective case-detection survey of veterinary records to evaluate living and dead members of the colony for a history of seizures, and to better characterize the epidemiology of seizures in the colony. Results: We have reviewed records for 761 baboons (235 living, 526 dead, 802 F, 871 M) and identified as seizures 1353 events in 444 baboons. Of these, 579 (43%) seizures were witnessed, and 774 (57%) were suspected on the basis of periorbital or other facial trauma, which has been found to be a reliable proxy indicator of seizures. Among witnessed seizures, 467 (81%) were spontaneous, and 112 (19%) were provoked by handling and/or ketamine administration. Seizures are usually brief: the median duration is 40s (range 5?300s, n = 134). Seizures are most common during the morning hours (68%, n = 314). Seizures are equally distributed between the sexes (212 F, 232 M) and sex-specific age distributions are similar. Seizures are observed at all ages, but are most prevalent in younger animals?about 40% of cases are younger than 4yr, and about 60% of cases have their first seizure prior to reaching adulthood (6?7 yr). There is no significant difference in the subspecies prevalence of seizure. Conclusions: These data help establish the baboon as a valid nonhuman primate animal model for idiopathic generalized epilepsy in humans. The prevalence of seizures in the baboon population is much greater than can be expected in a comparable human sample, and the epidemiological features of the seizures in the colony are similar to those seen in human populations. The availability of accurate pedigree information for the baboon colony enables quantitative genetic analysis to identify genetic contributions to seizures and related traits. (Supported by NIH/NINDS grant NS047755.) 1 Xiaofeng Yang, 1 Bryan R. Kennedy, and 1 Steven M. Rothman ( 1 Department of Neurology and Hope Center for Neurological Diseases, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: Over the past decade there has been great interest in the potential use of brain cooling as a treatment for neurological diseases. Our previous work has shown that focal cooling to 20°C with a thermoelectric (Peltier) device can rapidly terminate neocortical seizures and produces no cortical injury. Because there have been relatively few studies examining the possibility of brain injury caused by cooling, we decided to determine whether cooling to temperatures close to freezing would lead to any detectable structural alterations in either intact cortex or hippocampal slices. Methods: In vivo experiments were performed on halothane-anesthetized rats. A craniotomy was created over the left hemisphere. Cortical cooling was accomplished with a Peltier device, which made direct contact with the pial surface and maintained a temperature of 5°C on the brain surface. The cooling system was activated by a computer program every 2 minutes for 30 seconds, over 2 hours. The rats were sacrificed 3 day post operation. Paraffin sections of the brain were prepared and examined using Nissl and TUNEL staining for necrotic injury, neuronal loss, and apoptotic death. For in vitro studies, 500 ?m hippocampal slices were prepared from 2?3 month old green-fluorescent protein (GFP) expressing transgenic mice (line M). Slices were studied in a submerged chamber maintained at 33°C and cooled by perfusion with chilled ACSF. The temperature declined by 5°C/min. In each slice, one or two GFP-positive, distal CA1 dendrites were imaged using a Zeiss LSM 510 multiphoton microscope. We acquired Z-stacks of the same dendrites and associated spines every 15?30 minutes for 2 hours. The images were analyzed off-line by a blinded observer to assess changes in spine number (gain or loss) at different temperatures. Results: In the in vivo experiments there were no evidence of necrosis and apoptosis from Nissl and TUNEL staining on the cooling regions. Quantitative cell counts showed 1075±103 neurons/mm2 in control cortex and 1098±171 neurons/mm2 in cooled cortex (p > 0.05). When hippocampal slices were cooled to 10°C, there was no loss of dendritic spines over the 120 minutes. However, in slices that were cooled to 5°C, we saw a loss of spines and obvious beading of the dendritic shaft. With rewarming, the beading resolved and the spines reappeared. We did not identify new spine formation with either prolonged cooling or rewarming. Conclusions: Our results suggest that cooling to as low as 5°C is well tolerated by the in vivo and in vitro mammalian central nervous system. The results also showed that there is a large margin of safety between the range of temperatures required for proposed therapeutic uses of hypothermia and the temperatures capable of inducing even transient neuronal alterations. (Supported by the Alafi Family Foundation, the NINDS (R01 NS42936, R21 NS045652, and P01 NS32636), and Citizens United for Research in Epilepsy, Inc.) 1 Wonchul Shin, 2 Sang-Do Yi, 3 Dae Won Seo, 3 Seung Bong Hong, and 1 Dong Jin Shin ( 1 Neurology, Gil Medical Center, Gacheon Medical School, Inchon, Namdong-Gu, Inchon, Korea ; 2 Neurology, Keimyung University School of Medicine, Jung-gu, Daegu, Korea ; and 3 Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: This study was performed to investigate the effects of antiepileptic drugs according to the patterns of characteristic EEG progression in the lithium-pilocarpine induced status epilepsticus (SE). Methods: Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 200?300grams were used as subjects. SE was induced 7 days after placement of epidural electrodes, by lithium pretreatment followed by low dose of pilocarpine i.p.(30mg/kg). The intracranial EEG was continuously recorded from pilocarpine injection until the end of SE. The pattern of EEG were divided into 5 stages; discrete ictal discharge (d), merging stage, continuous ictal discharge stage (c), continuous ictal discharge with flat period (f), periodic epileptiform discharge stage. Phenytoin (30mg/Kg, PHT), valproate (100mg/Kg, VPA) and phenytoin with valproate (PNT+VPA) were injected during discrete (d), continuous ictal discharge (c), continuous ictal discharge with flat period stages (f), respectively. Results: SE was induced in 78/96 (81.3%). The mortality was 20%(2/10) in control group, 14.3% (3/21) in PHT treated group, 18.2% (4/22) in VPA group and 8% (2/25) in PHT+VPA group. In control group, duration of total EEG seizure was 1008.0±89.47 minutes. Continuous stage significantly was shortened in VPA-d group and PHT+VPA-d group compared to control group (p < 0.05). Also, the durations of the periodic epileptiform discharge stage and total seizure were reduced in VPA-d, PHT+VPA-d and PNT+VPA-c groups (p < 0.05). Conclusions: This results suggest that analysis of progressive EEG pattern in SE may predict the prognosis of SE and response to treatment. And early treatment according to EEG monitoring and polytherapy are effective treatment in SE. 1 Minhua Zhang, 1 Michael J. McLean, 1 Stefan Engstrom, and 1 Robert R. Holcomb ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Seizures due to overdose with the bronchodilator, theophylline (THEO), can be life-threatening in humans. Mildly toxic doses of THEO did not produce seizures, but predisposed outbred mice to seizures induced by sound (THEO-induced audiogenic seizures; THEO-AGS). Here, we describe effects of several anticonvulsant drugs and static magnetic fields on THEO-AGS. Methods: ICR/CD1 male mice were obtained from Charles River Laboratories, Wilmington, MA. Animal handling conformed to NIH guidelines and was approved by the Vanderbilt Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. THEO and anticonvulsant drugs were injected intraperitoneally (IP) before sound stimulation (recording of rattling keys; 90?110 dB). The device and methods for magnetic field stimulation have been published (McLean et al., Epi Res 55:105?116, 2003). Concomitant controls received THEO IP, but no other treatment. Audiogenic seizures (AGS) evolved from wild running (WR) to loss of righting (LOR), clonic jerks (CLO), tonic hindlimb extension (THE) and death (DEA) in < 1 min. Results: Sound stimulation did not result in seizures in ICR mice. Mice (>90%) given 75 mg/kg THEO IP 10 minutes before sound stimulation (blood level ?71 mg/ml) had AGS. Pretreatment with anticonvulsant drugs (AED) prevented AGS manifestations to different degrees with the following order of potency: Non-toxic doses of gabapentin (ED50 vs CLO 60 mg/kg, 30 min before sound; ?36 mg/ml) and pregabalin (?60 mg/kg, 30 min before sound) provided nearly complete control. Phenytoin provided nearly complete control at an intoxicating dose that produce abnormal movements (80 mg/kg, 2 hr before sound; ?170 mg/ml). Levetiracetam provided partial protection at high non-toxic doses (up to 500 mg/kg, 1 hour before sound; 361 mg/ml). Static magnetic fields effective against AGS in inbred DBA/2 mice (?5 millitesla and 0.3-1 tesla/meter averaged over volume of mouse head) provided no protection against THEO-AGS. Conclusions: Intoxicating doses of THEO did not produce seizures, but had proconvulsant effects that resulted in seizures in response to sound. THEO-AGS in outbred mice were more severe than AGS in inbred DBA/2 mice. THEO-AGS were lethal if untreated. Seizure control required higher doses of certain AED than AGS in DBA/2 mice. Magnetic fields effective in DBA/2 mice were ineffective against THEO-AGS, perhaps due to greater seizure severity and widespread distribution of THEO. (Supported by a research grant from Pfizer and by funds from the Holcomb Medical Research Institute.) 1 Mathieu Milh, 1 Amy Brooks-Kayal, 1 Iman A. Ghaddar, 1 Yehezkel Ben-Ari, and 1 Rustem Khazipov ( 1 INMED, INSERM U29, Marseilles, France ) Rationale: Developmental studies using brain preparations in vitro have suggested that neurotransmitter GABA exerts excitatory action on immature neurons. For example, in the neonatal rat hippocampal slices, drugs that enhance the postsynaptic action of GABA, such as diazepam, increase the amplitude and frequency of network driven Giant Depolarizing Potentials (GDPs)from birth till the postnatal day (P)10, when GABA switches from excitatory to inhibitory. However, it remains unknown when similar excitatory action of GABA takes place also in vivo. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the action of GABA on the neonatal rat hippocampal and neocortical neurons in vivo. Methods: Extracellular field and multiple unit activity (MUA) recordings Results: Using extracellular field and multiple unit activity (MUA) recordings we found that diazepam and phenobarbital injected intraperiotaneally increase the frequency of the sharp waves in the hippocampus from P4?8 - but not adult - rats. In several cases we also observed interictal-like activity composed of single or multiple population spikes in P4?8 animals. Conclusions: Thus, positive allosteric GABA(A) modulators benzodiazepines and barbiturates enhance the excitability of the hippocampal network in vivo before P8, suggesting that GABA exerts excitatory action at the early developmental stages in vivo. This study raises concern on possible proconvulsive effects of GABAergic drugs in preterm infants. (Supported by INSERM.)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tamaki, Keisuke
AU  - Yamada, Kiyofumi
AU  - Nakamichi, Noritaka
AU  - Taniura, Hideo
AU  - Yoneda, Yukio
TI  - Transient suppression of progenitor cell proliferation through NMDA receptors in hippocampal dentate gyrus of mice with traumatic stress experience
JO  - Journal of Neurochemistry
VL  - 105
IS  - 5
SN  - 0022-3042
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-4159.2008.05253.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1471-4159.2008.05253.x
SP  - 1642
EP  - 1655
KW  - dentate gyrus
KW  - flashback
KW  - glutamate
KW  - neural progenitor
KW  - NMDA receptors
KW  - post-traumatic stress disorder
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract Post-traumatic stress disorder is a long-lasting psychiatric disease after the traumatic experience of severe fatal stress with the consequence of hippocampal atrophy. Freezing behaviors were more than quintupled on the fear-conditioning test in mice previously subjected to water immersion restrain stress (WIRS) with metronome tones when determined 1?28?days after WIRS, while these mice exhibited the increased immobility time on the forced swimming test with the increased spontaneous locomotion. Prior experience of WIRS led to a transient decrease in subsequent 5-bromo-2?-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation into proliferating cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. These behavioral and neurochemical alterations were significantly prevented by the daily injection of the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine, respectively. Moreover, WIRS significantly decreased the number of cells holding BrdU without affecting the differentiation ratio to astroglial and neuronal lineages 28?days later. Prior administration of an NMDA receptor antagonist significantly prevented the aforementioned changes by WIRS. These results suggest that NMDA receptors may play a role in mechanisms underlying the crisis of a variety of psychiatric symptoms relevant to post-traumatic stress disorder through transient suppression of neural progenitor cell proliferation in the murine hippocampal dentate gyrus.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yim, Hong Soon
AU  - Choi, Kyung Min
AU  - Kim, Byoungjae
AU  - Jung, In Duk
AU  - Park, Yeong-Min
AU  - Kang, Yoon Kyu
AU  - Lee, Min-Goo
TI  - Effect of 1-methyl-D-tryptophan and adoptive transfer of dendritic cells on polymicrobial sepsis induced by cecal content injection
JO  - Microbiology and Immunology
JA  - Microbiol Immunol
VL  - 57
IS  - 9
SN  - 0385-5600
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1348-0421.12081
DO  - doi:10.1111/1348-0421.12081
SP  - 633
EP  - 639
KW  - clinical immunology
KW  - dendritic cells
KW  - innate immunity
PY  - 2013
AB  - ABSTRACT A mouse model of polymicrobial sepsis induced by cecal content injection (CCI) was developed with the aim of gaining a better understanding of the mechanism of sepsis. This model has a similar survival pattern to the conventional model with the added benefits of ability to vary the severity of sepsis and greater consistency. Administration of 1-methyl-D-tryptophan (1-MT) to inhibit indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) in mice with CCI-induced sepsis increased the survival rate and tended to up-regulate IL-10/IL-12 serum concentrations. The effectiveness of 1-MT was confirmed by increases in IL-10 over IL-12 in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) treated with LPS and 1-MT and a superior survival rate 24 hr after injection of these double treated BMDCs in the CCI-induced sepsis model. Therefore, CCI is both a useful and reliable technique for investigating polymicrobial sepsis. The present findings using this newly developed model suggest that inhibition of IDO alleviates the severity of polymicrobial sepsis and modulates the immune response even in cases of severe systemic septic inflammation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Poster Session 1
JO  - Movement Disorders
JA  - Mov. Disord.
VL  - 21
IS  - S15
SN  - 0885-3185
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mds.21246
DO  - doi:10.1002/mds.21246
SP  - S329
EP  - S424
PY  - 2006
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Toxicology
JO  - Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology
JA  - Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol
VL  - 115
IS  - s1
SN  - 1742-7835
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/bcpt.12259_15
DO  - doi:10.1111/bcpt.12259_15
SP  - 350
EP  - 369
PY  - 2014
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Saturday, December 5, 2009 Poster Session 1 1:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 50
IS  - s11
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2009.02377_1.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2009.02377_1.x
SP  - 1
EP  - 158
PY  - 2009
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 2010 ASN Abstracts
JO  - Journal of Neuroimaging
VL  - 20
IS  - 1
SN  - 1051-2284
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1552-6569.2009.00451.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1552-6569.2009.00451.x
SP  - 93
EP  - 105
PY  - 2010
AB  - 1.? Vertebral Artery Pseudoaneurysm Presenting as Swishing Noise Jayashree Sundararajan, Manoj Mittal, Saud Khan Kansas University Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas, United States A 48-year-old male with history of gun shot wound to the neck 20 years ago presented with chronic daily headaches, left face numbness, left ear ?swishing ? noise and intermittent dizziess. Examination revealed tongue deviation to the left and decreased sensation on the left facial on light touch and pinprick. Computer tomographic angiography showed left vertebral artery pseudoaneurysm (measuring 18 mm ? 13 mm ? 10 mm) which was located between the C1 vertebral body and skull base. Four vessel ateriogram confirms the same findings. MRI brain was not performed due to the presence of the bullet. It is hypothesized that this large pseudoaneurysm caused thromboembolic phenomena. Extracranial vertebral artery injury and pseudoaneurysm formation is most often due to trauma often penetrating in nature (stabbing, gunshot wound, sharpnel) (1). Symptoms secondary to vertebral artery pseudoaneurysm are variable and result from mass effect or arterial insufficiency. Lower cranial nerve dysfunction can be observed if the pseudoaneurysm is large with intraspinal or intracranial extension or secondary to infarction or ischemia from microembolization or thrombosis of vertebral artery or PICA (1). Sometimes the speudoaneurysms can be safely observed; however spontaneous thrombosis or rupture may occur (2). References: 1. Detwiler K, Godersky JC, Gentry L. Pseudoaneurysm of the extracranial vertebral artery. Journal of Neurosurgery 1987;67(6):935?9394. 2. Schittek A. Pseudoaneurysm of the vertebral artery. Tex Heart Inst J. 1999;26:90?95. 2.? Giant Dolichoectatic Vertebrobasilar System. Clinical Presentation and Endovascular Approach: A Case Report Esteban Cheng-Ching, Lama Chahine, Muhammad S Hussain, Thinesh Sivapatham, Mark Bain, Shaye Moskowitz, Rishi Gupta The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia (VBD) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Disease progression has been linked to increased rates of stroke and death. Unfortunately the treatment options are limited, carrying a significant high risk. We report a case of a patient with a gigantic VBD presenting with clinical worsening, who underwent stent-assisted coil embolization (SACE). Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Patient medical records and imaging studies were reviewed. Results: 54 year old man with history of hypertension, aortic dissection, and known stable VBD, was lost to follow up and presented 2 years later with headaches, progressive diplopia, facial palsy, dysarthria, dysphagia, and ataxia. A brain CT showed a marked interval enlargement of the VBD producing mass effect on the brainstem. Anterior circulation aneurysmal dilatation was also seen. An angiogram showed a diffusely enlarged vertebrobasilar system with partially thrombosed aneurysm. Endovascular reconstruction was performed. Angiographic catheters were advanced to the distal basilar artery, and positioned assisted by an inflated balloon. A stent was deployed across the aneurysmal dilatation in order to recreate a lumen, and coil embolization was performed with near complete occlusion of the aneurysm. After the procedure, the patient remained in the Neurointensive care unit, and he was discharged few days later. Conclusion: VBD can enlarge to significant dimensions, producing compressive symptoms in the brainstem, as well as thrombosis and ischemic strokes. SACE of the dolichoectasia can be effective for the vessel reconstruction, to prevent progression of the dilatation, and other potential clinical events. 3.? Three Case Reports of Multiple Carotid and/or Vertebral Artery Dissections in Female Mei Lu, Heather Gornik, Esteban Cheng Ching, Vikram Kashyap, Rishi Gupta Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, United States Introduction: Multiple carotid and/or vertebral artery dissections are rare. However, patients with multiple dissections can suffer from severe stroke, leading to significant mobility and mortality. The etiology underlying the bilateral carotid dissection is not clear. The effective treatment approaches are not known. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case review of 3 young females with multiple carotid and/or vertebral artery dissections. Results: Three cases of young females presented with spectrum of clinical symptoms ranging from ear pain, neck pain, headaches, ptosis to frank stroke symptoms. Each of them has different possible etiology, from post-partum, possible inflammation with elevated ESR, and genetic disorder Loeys-Dietz syndrome with TGFBR2 mutation. All three patients underwent medical treatment including anti-platelet and/or anticoagulant. In addition, They all had endovascular interventions, including stenting, and/or coiling. Patient's clinical symptoms and signs had been improved post intervention during follow-up visits. Conclusion: Bilateral carotid dissection should be considered even in patient with mild symptoms, such as ear, head and neck pain in young female. Early detection is essential for better outcome. Post-partum, inflammation, and genetic disorders are possible etiology. Extensive genetic workup for connective tissue disorders, such as Loeys-Dietz syndrome is important. Even though different treatment regimen and modality may be needed depending on different etiology. Intravascular interventions may be critical in certain situations despite of different underlying causes. 4.? Choreoathetosis and Personality Change as a Manifestation of Fahr's Syndrome due to Hypocalcemia and of the Pituitary Tumor Adel Olshansky, Nerses Sanossian University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Hypocalcemia can present with neurological symptoms such as choreoathetosis and personality change and can result from hypoparathyroidism, hypermagnesemia, vitamin D deficiency, renal failure, and hyperphosphatemia. Neuroimaging can often reveal extensive cerebral calcification and help to establish this diagnosis and its etiology. We present a case in which neuroimaging helped establish the diagnosis of Fahr's syndrome and pituitary adenoma. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Report Results: A 55 year old Hispanic male presented with 4 months of progressive involuntary movements of the left arm and leg and with 3 weeks of blurry vision. His wife noted worsening irritability and confusion. Neurological examination revealed limited orientation, difficulty with attention, overshooting on saccadic pursuit, bilateral choreoathetoid movements, mildly increased leg tone, and inability to perform coordination tasks on left due to involuntary movements. A non-contrast head CT revealed diffuse symmetrical calcification sparing the cortex and involving the subcortical and cerebellar white matter. Calcium and PTH levels were low at 5.7 and 3.0. Patient improved with intravenous calcium gluconate, and was placed on calcium and vitamin D supplementation. Brain MRI showed suprasellar mass consistent with macroadenoma and prolactin was elevated at 335.9. Bromocriptine therapy was initiated. Conclusion: Neuroimaging is the key to the evaluation of hypocalcemia for diagnosis of Fahr's syndrome. Prompt identification and correction of hypocalcimia led to clinical improvement. 5.? Does a 320 Slice CT Scanner Change our Management in Acute Ischemic Stroke?The Buffalo Experience Bijal Mehta, Ziad Darkhabani, Maxim Mokin, Tareq Kass-Hout, Vladan Radovic SUNY Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, United States Background: The first 320 slice CT scanner was introduced in late 2007. Since then more centers have installed this updated scanner to replace widely used 64 slice scanner. Millard Fillmore Gates Hospital in Buffalo is a JHACO accredited primary stroke center, with 24 hour stroke, neurosurgical, and endovascular care available. Our Toshiba Aquillon 320 slice CT scanner was installed in May 2009. Since that time, almost every acute stroke is scanned using this CT scanner. However, the utility as to whether this scanner has changed our management of acute stroke and specifically which treatment modality used. Acute stroke patients, after initial history, physical exam, and NIHSS calculation, are determined to be eligible to receive IV tPA, IA tPA or interventional procedure candidate, or have an intracerebral hemorrhage and are seen by the neurosurgical team. A CT of the head and CT angiogram of the head and neck vessels are performed on all acute strokes in our facility. A treatment and diagnostic plan is usually decided based on the history, physical exam, the time of onset of the stroke, and findings on the patient's CT scan. Objective: To determine if the numbers of IV tPA cases, IA tPA-interventional procedures, or neurosurgical cases changed in frequency from 2008 to 2009 when only the 64 slice scanner was used versus after installation of the 320 slice CT scanner. Results: A retrospective chart review will be performed on all acute stroke patients presenting to MFG in the 12 months prior and following installation of the 320 slice CT scanner. Information regarding demographic data, stroke severity (NIHSS), which CT scanner used, and CT modalities will be obtained. Patients will be initially separated into two groups: those who had the 64 slice CT scan in the 12 months prior to installation of the 320 scanner, and those who had a 320 slice scan in the 12 months since installation. The numbers of IV tPA, IA tPA-interventional procedures, and neurosurgical hemorrhage cases will be obtained in these two groups. Student t-test and ANOVA will be used to determine if the monthly average number of each case type (i.e. ?no intervention, IV-tPA, IA-tPA or procedural, or hemorrhage? group) varies from those who had the 64 slice CT scans versus the 320 slice CT scans. Conclusion: Does the installation of 320 slice CT scanner increase the numbers of strokes diagnoses and alter the management of such cases? Our conclusions will be presented in the final presentation at the meeting as this is a work in progress and based on the ongoing collection of data as described above. 6.? Vertebral Artery Origin Disease: A Neglected Cause of Posterior Circulation Stroke and TIA Nishant Kumar, Paisith Piriyawat, Salvador Cruz-Flores, Nirav Vora, Aninda Acharya, Eliahu Feen, Jacob Kitchner, Sushant Kale, Randall Edgell Saint Louis University, Saint Louis, MO, United States Background and Purpose: Vertebral Artery Origin Disease (VAOD) is present in 20% of patients with posterior circulation ischemia; in 9% of these patients no other possible etiology will be identified. Given the high incidence of VAOD ands its treatable nature, we performed this investigation into the efficacy of screen for VAOD at Saint Louis University. Methods: All patients admitted to the vascular neurology service at Saint Louis University Hospital between November 2005 and April 2007 were identified using an institutional database. Those patients who had posterior circulation ischemic strokes were included. Patients diagnosed with transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) were included if there were no symptoms or signs of anterior circulation involvement. Patients were said to have been screened for VAOD if they underwent a computed tomographic angiogram (CTA), magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA), or catheter angiogram in which the vertebral artery origins were visualized. VAOD was defined as an occluded or >50% stenosed vertebral artery origin. The screening studies were then reviewed, blinded to the original interpretation. Results: There were 257 patients admitted for ischemic stroke or TIA in the specified period. Of these, 44 (17%) were found to have a posterior circulation stroke or TIA (22 stroke; 22 TIA). The average age of these patients was 63 years and 22 were male. Thirteen (29%; 1 TIA and 12 stroke) patients underwent screening for VAOD. Seven (16%) of these screening studies were interpreted as demonstrating VAOD. When the images of those patients who underwent a screening test were retrospectively reviewed, 3 (7%) additional cases were identified. No patients underwent a revascularization procedure. Conclusions: Despite the high incidence of VAOD in the setting of posterior circulation ischemia in this study (23%), screening was only performed in a minority of patients (13 of 44). When screening was performed, not all cases were identified. These findings highlight the need for more consistent inclusion of vertebral artery origin imaging when searching for the cause of posterior circulation ischemia. This is particularly important with the increasing availability of low risk interventional treatments. 7.? Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome: Case Report and Review of the Literature Michael Lee, Harpreet Johl, Nerses Sanossian University of Southern California, CA, United States Introduction: Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is characterized by a sudden, severe headache at onset, vascular narrowing involving the circle of Willis and its immediate branches, and evidence of vasoconstriction with reversibility within days to weeks of onset. The diversity of classification, pathology, and subspecialties that may encounter RCVS has hampered diagnosis of this recently characterized entity. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 37 year old Caucasian female with a past medical history of migraine and mixed connective tissue disorder presented with a history of maximal onset headache after sexual intercourse. She had been using pseudoephedrine for upper respiratory symptoms at the time. The next day a lumbar puncture showed protein 46 glucose 60, 2 wbc, tube 1 360 RBC tube 4 323 RBC without xanthochromia. Extensive serologies including anticentromere, anti-RNP, ANA, SSA, lupus anticoagulant, complement, DS-DNA, anti-Smith, anti-histone, hepatitis panel, cryoglobulin, HIV and urine toxicology were unremarkable. Results: MRI brain showed evidence of several punctuate non-specific T2/FLAIR hyperintensities in the periventricular white matter. CTA was significant for long segments of narrowing in the anterior and posterior circulations involving bilateral A1 and left A2 segments, bilateral M2 segments, superior cerebellar arteries as well as the right Vertebral artery. No evidence of SAH or an unruptured aneurysm was found. Conclusion: RCVS is an under-recognized cause of headache. It is typified by a young woman with acute, severe headache, a history of migraine, cold medication usage, dynamic improvement of angiographic abnormalities, and can be treated with steroids and calcium channel blockers. 8.? Fatal ICH and SDH Following Intravenous Cerebral Thrombolysis Mohammed Zaman1, Robert Malka1, Karen Wilson2, Reza Behrouz1, Michael Sloan1?1University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States, 2Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, FL, United States Introduction: Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) follows intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) therapy for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) in 1?16% of cases. Combined ICH and subdural hematoma (SDH) has rarely been reported following myocardial infarction but not AIS. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Report Results: We report a 76 year old woman with prior R frontotemporal stroke who presented with right hemisphere AIS, NIHSS 23, and received tPA at 2:10 hrs after symptom onset. At 1 hr, she had improved to NIHSS 11, and was admitted to the NeuroICU for care. At 9.5 hrs after treatment, she became drowsy and was intubated; CT showed a right temporal ICH and SDH. She deteriorated to NIHSS 20; follow-up CT showed enlargement of the ICH (with blood- fluid level) and SDH, with 5 mm right to left shift. The patient received 6 units of cryoprecipitate and 6 units of platelets. She underwent emergent right hemicraniectomy with good operative result. Despite vigorous neurocritical care management, she expired the next day. Conclusion: Combined ICH and SDH may rarely complicate tPA therapy for AIS. Outcome may be poor, similar to ICH and SDH following tPA for acute myocardial infarction. 9.? Delayed Cerebral Edema Following Parenchymal Intracerebral Hemorrhage Robert Malka1, Yamile Vidal1, Karen Wilson2, Reza Behrouz1, Michael Sloan1?1University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States, 2Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, FL, United States Introduction: Parenchymal intracerebral hemorrhage (PIH) is typically accompanied by cerebral edema. Little information exists regarding the occurrence of cerebral edema more than 10 days after PIH onset. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Reports Results: We report two cases of late cerebral edema following PIH. Case 1: A 59 year old woman with prior strokes, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, two prosthetic heart valves on Coumadin therapy developed a 13 cc L frontoparietal PIH with INR 4.5. After reversal of Coumadin, she improved. Between 11?14 days after PIH onset, she worsened; CT showed extensive edema, diffuse L hemisphere sulcal effacement and 5 mm right to left shift. With medical management and treatment for polymicrobial bacteremia, she markedly improved on day 26; CT showed marked reduction in edema. She was transferred to rehab four days later. Case 2: A 48 year old woman with hypertension, diabetes and end stage renal disease on hemodialysis presented with severe aphasia, right hemiparesis and required intubation; GCS = 9T and NIHSS = 20. CT showed a 50 cc L basal ganglia PIH with edema and 5 mm left to right shift. In the NeuroICU, she received Endotool, 3% saline. By day 8, she was extubated, had improved and was transferred to the floor. By day 18, she became drowsy and hypotensive and was transferred to the NeuroICU. CT showed diffuse cerebral edema and 12 mm left to right shift. Despite intubation and 3% saline, she herniated and received left hemicraniectomy. Postoperatively, she developed refractory intracranial hypertension and expired three days later. Conclusion: Late cerebral edema following PIH is uncommon and outcomes may vary. 10.? Hashimoto Encephalopathy with Neuroimaging Findings Mimicking Multiple Sclerosis Lucas Harmon Bradley, Aarti Sarwal, Upinder Dhand University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States Introduction: Hashimoto encephalopathy(HE) has varying clinical presentation with confusion, stroke-like episodes, coma, seizures etc. Diffuse periventricular white matter changes with increased T2 and FLAIR signal on brain MRI are reported in 50% patients. Elevated CSF anti-thyroid peroxidase(TPO) antibody is considered diagnostic, albeit not causally related. We report unique presentation of HE with dementia, relapsing neurological deficits, and MRI findings mimicking multiple sclerosis. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Report Results: 62-year-old male presented with progressive cognitive decline over four years, one episode of left side weakness, fluctuating paresthesias in extremities, urinary incontinence and fatigue. His forgetfulness and difficulty in complex tasks caused loss of job as satellite engineer. He was referred for evaluation of multiple sclerosis. Examination showed no motor, sensory or cranial nerve deficits. Neuropsychological assessment revealed academic ability at 6th grade level with impaired cognitive and executive function. Routine chemistry, B12, folate, TSH, paraneoplastic panel and electroencephalograph were normal. MRI brain showed multiple, non-enhancing, hyperintense, bifrontal subcortical and posterior periventricular areas on T2 and FLAIR images. Serum antinuclear antibody(1:1240) and anti-TPO antibody 153.7(0?3.9 IU/ml) were elevated. CSF examination showed normal chemistry, cytology, myelin basic protein, IgG synthesis rate, no oligoclonal bands. Elevated CSF anti-TPO antibody at 977.6(0?60 IU/ml) confirmed diagnosis of HE. Conclusion: Our patient with chronic dementia, transient neurological deficits and multifocal white matter lesions on brain MRI associated with anti-TPO antibody adds to the expanding clinical and radiological spectrum of demyelinating disease. HE should be considered in differential diagnosis of acute encephalopathy as well as chronic dementia of unobvious cause. 11.? An Unusual Presentation of Cerebral Venous Sinus Thrombosis Adrienne Keener, May Kim University of Southern California/Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Thromboembolic disease is a well-established complication of ulcerative colitis (UC), but cerebral venous sinus thrombosis is an extremely rare occurrence. Methods: A case report of a young female admitted to Los Angeles County Hospital in late June of 2009 with review of the medical literature. Results: A 39 year old right handed Hispanic female with no known past medical history was seen in the emergency department (ED) following new-onset seizures, fever, and stiff neck. Upon interview, she was confused and disoriented with a non-focal neurologic exam. A lumbar puncture was performed which was normal and a non-contrast head computed tomography (HCT) scan showed a right posterior parietal hypodensity with no surrounding edema. She was empirically treated with acyclovir in the ED and admitted to the neurology service. Subsequently, a recent history of rectal bleeding was elicited from the patient one week prior to seizure onset. A colonoscopy with biopsy demonstrating ulcerative colitis was discovered during her admission. Magnetic resonance imaging/magnetic resonance venogram (MRI/MRV) revealed an impressive thrombosis of the right transverse and sigmoid sinuses extending down into the internal jugular vein with a venous infarct of the right posterior temporal lobe. A hypercoagulable work-up was unremarkable. Conclusion: The underlying etiology of venous thromboembolic disease in the setting of ulcerative colitis is poorly understood. The unique presentation of this case emphasizes the need to maintain high clinical suspicion of cerebral venous thrombosis in patients with UC who present with acute neurologic symptoms and signs. 12.? Age and Insulin Resistance are Associated with Periventricular White Matter Hyperintensities in older HIV Seropositive Individuals Aaron McMurtray Pacific Health Research Institute, Honolulu, HI, United States Introduction: Human immunodeficiency virus infection is associated with the development of insulin resistance. This study was conducted to determine the relationship between presence of white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) and insulin resistance in older HIV-seropositive individuals. Patients and Methods: Twenty-six HIV seropositive individuals with age greater than 50 years were prospectively enrolled in the study. Participants underwent general physical and neurological examinations, oral glucose tolerance testing, laboratory blood analysis, and either or both of 3-Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and/or Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging of the brain. Presence of WMHs was determined by visual analysis of T2 and FLAIR weighted images. Voxel-based-morphometry (VBM) was used to compare cortical lobar volumes between groups and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was used to compare cortical metabolism between groups. Results: Presence of WMHs was significantly associated with greater age (p = 0.043), and insulin resistance (p = 0.05). A trend towards greater history of pack-years smoking (p = 0.086) was noted as well. Other demographic and HIV related factors did not significantly differ between the groups. Cortical lobar volumes did not significantly differ between the groups and statistical parametric mapping did not detect any significant differences in cortical metabolism between groups as well. Conclusion: Age and insulin resistance are associated with presence of periventricular WMHs in older individuals living with HIV infection. These findings may be of particular interest to clinicians caring for older HIV seropositive individuals. 13.? Dissociable Left-Right Mammillothalamic Functional Connectivity for Verbal and Nonverbal Memory in Wernicke Encephalopathy Young-Chul Jung Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea, Republic of Introduction: Wernicke's encephalopathy is an acute, neuropsychiatric disorder caused by vitamin B1 deficiency. We aimed to validate the clinical validity of resting-state functional connectivity analysis in a patient who suffered from two independent episodes of Wernicke's encephalopathy during a 20 month follow-up. Patients and Methods: We repeatedly measured the mamillothalamic functional connectivity and memory function three times in a 68 year-old male patient: First, when the patient completely recovered from the first episode of Wernicke's encephalopathy (month 0); Second, when the patient readmitted due to relapse of Wernicke's encephalopathy (month 17); Third, when the patient partially recovered from the second episode of Wernicke's encephalopathy after three months of hospitalization (month 20). Functional images were acquired on 1.5 T GE scanner and were collected by using a gradient echo EPI sequence, while the subject underwent a 5 minute passive-viewing block scan, instructed to fixate on a white crosshair in the center of a black background screen The memory function was evaluated by the Auditory Verbal Learning Test and the Rey Complex Figure Test. Results: The left side mammillothalamic functional connectivity strength paralleled with the verbal memory function. Both demonstrated significant impairment at month 17 and significant restoration at month 20. In contrast, the right side mammillothalamic functional connectivity strength and the nonverbal memory function did not show any accordance during the clinical course. Conclusion: The current findings support the feasibility of mammillothalamic functional connectivity analysis in clinical settings to evaluate treatment response in patients recovering from Wernicke's encephalopathy. 14.? Central Pontine and Extra-Pontine Myelinolysis in a Patient with Prolonged Hyponatermia Due to Oxcarbazepine Treatment Ziad Darkhabani, Bijal Mehta, Tareq Kass-Hout, Maxim Mokin, Cornelia Mihai SUNY Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, United States Background: Central pontine myelinolysis (CPM), also known as osmotic demyelination syndrome, was first described in 1959. The most common etiology involves osmotic changes within the pons and extra-pontine areas while rapidly treating hyponatermia. However, prolonged hyponatremia and fluctuating osmotic forces is also a risk for demyelination. The causes of hyponatermia can vary as well. Case: We report a novel case of a patient with multiple sclerosis who presented with mild bulbar symptoms. She was also found to have chronic hyponatremia related to Oxcarbazepine treatment, which she was taking for pain management. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings were consistent with central pontine myelinolysis (CPM) and extra-pontine myelinolysis (EPM). Subsequent MRI findings showed significant resolution of the CPM/EPM changes on a 3 month follow-up MRI after discontinuing the Oxcarbamazepine and treating the hyponatremia. Discussion: CPM/EPM is a serious side effect secondary to fluctuations in serum sodium levels and chronic hyponatremia. The classical presentation of CPM is ?Locked-in Syndrome,? however severity of symptoms may vary and can be asymptomatic. MRI findings can also vary from minimal T2/FLAIR changes within the pons to larger areas encompassing the entire pons and surrounding extra-pontine structures. Many antiepileptic medications, including Oxcarbazepine, are well known to cause hyponatremia. This case report showed that the Oxcarbazepine-induced hyponatremia may lead to CPM and EPM, as noted on MRI, if sodium levels are not properly monitored and corrected. Conclusion: Oxcarbazepine is an effective antiepileptic and mood stabilizing medication, but proper attention and monitoring is required in order to prevent fluctuations in serum sodium levels. Appropriate caution should be used when treating patients with Oxcarbazepine, especially for off label indications. 15.? Susac's Syndrome: Evolution of MRI Findings Following Treatment with Immune-Modulating Therapy Lama Chahine, Esteban Cheng, Ferdinand Hui, Jinny Tavee Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Susac's Syndrome (SS) is an autoimmune endotheliopathy characterized by the triad of encephalopathy, retinal arteriopathy, and hearing loss, though all three features may not be present at disease onset. We report a case of SS and describe the clinical and MRI changes seen over time with immune-modulating therapy. Patients (or Materials) Methods: The patient's medical record, laboratory tests, and imaging studies were reviewed. Results: A 24-year-old man presented with vertigo, vision loss, dysarthria, and mental status changes. MRI of the brain showed diffuse dural enhancement with multiple T2 and FLAIR hyperintensities in the central corpus callosum (CC), right cerebellar hemisphere, and periventricular white matter perpendicular to the CC. Ophthalmologic evaluation showed multiple retinal arteriolar occlusions. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed evidence of active inflammation with negative cultures and cytology. Although audiologic evaluation was normal, the diagnosis of SS was made based on the characteristic appearance of the corpus callosal lesion, retinal lesions, and clinical findings. After treatment with 2 gm/kg of intravenous (IV) immunoglobulins and IV methylprednisolone, there was marked radiographic and clinical improvement, with the patient returning to near baseline status. Conclusion: Susac's syndrome (SS) typically involves the cerebral, retinal, and inner ear microvasculature. Central CC involvement with sparing of the peripheral and inferior CC are classic features on MRI. Combined with auditory and visual findings, these MRI findings help distinguish SS from multiple sclerosis. The majority of patients have a monophasic course and respond well to immunotherapy, although relapses may occur. 16.? Global vs. Regional Spinal Cord Atrophy in Multiple Sclerosis Ashish Arora, Mohit Neema, Shahamat Tauhid, Daniel Goldberg-Zimring, Brian Healy, James Stankiewicz, Christian Chavarro-Nieto, Namitha Thomas, Antonia Ceccarelli, Elisa Dell?Oglio, Charles Guttmann, Rohit Bakshi 1Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, United States, 2Harvard Medical School, Boston, United States Introduction: Spinal cord damage is common in MS and provides a unique and clinically relevant means to monitor disease progression and therapeutic effects. While regional spinal cord atrophy has been studied extensively in MS, whole spinal cord atrophy has not been previously assessed. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Whole spinal cord 3 mm thick T2-weighted axial fast spin-echo MRI images were obtained at 3 T on 34 patients with MS [EDSS 1.95 ±1.72, range 0?6.5] and 15 normal controls. The global and regional (cervical, thoracic) cord volumes and cross-sectional volume at C2?3 were determined using a semi-automated tool and were normalized by the segment length and intracranial volume. Results: Whole cord, C2?3, cervical and thoracic volumes were lower in progressive vs. relapsing patients or normal controls (all p < 0.05). Spinal cord volumes were not related to spinal cord lesion load but were related to EDSS scores (r ?0.35 to ?0.46; p < 0.05). Only the C2?3 volume correlated with timed 25-foot walk (r -0.40; p < 0.05). The regional and whole cord volumes were all highly inter-correlated (r = 0.83 to 0.98; p < 0.05). Conclusion: The established method of estimating spinal cord atrophy, C2?3 cross-sectional volume, provides a useful surrogate of overall global or regional spinal cord atrophy. Spinal cord atrophy is most common in progressive forms of MS and is related to neurologic disability. 17.? FLAIR Vascular Hyperintensities on Baseline Imaging of a Transplant Candidate Sharmineh Shams, Kai Lin, Nerses Sanossian University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Background: Fluid-Attenuated-Inversion-Recovery Vascular Hyperintensity (FVH) are well described in the setting of acute stroke, but may occur in chronic arterial disease. The presence of FVH may indicate a high risk of stroke, especially in the face of a stressor such as surgery. We describe FVH noted during the pre-surgical evaluation of a renal transplant patient to highlight how this neuro-imaging marker may provide additional information about stroke risk. Methods: Case Report Results: A 40 year old man with multiple vascular risk factors including diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia and previous stroke for preoperative stroke evaluation. He denies any recent episodes of neurological symptoms. The patient was being evaluated for had been on dialysis for many years and was considered having renal transplantation. His neurological examination was significant only for some difficulty with frontal executive function, and sensory polyneuropathy. His brain CT scan showed an old left frontal infarction and extensive calcific atherosclerosis. The MRI of the brain revealed border zone infarctions predominantly in the left side basal ganglia lacunes. FLAIR images revealed extensive FVH in the bilateral insula and fronto-parietal lobes. The MR angiogram of the brain was consistent with cerebral atherosclerosis. Conclusion: FVH are seen in the setting of disordered flow, for example in the setting of leptomeningeal collaterals. They are often transient in acute stroke because of progression to infarction or re-establishment of normal flow patterns. The presence of chronic FVH may be an indicator of severe flow disturbance and high risk of stroke. 18.? Transient Ischemic Attacks in a Young Female with Takayasu's Arteritis Mary Catherine Mayo, May Kim University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Takayasu's arteritis (TA) is a large vessel vasculitis primarily affecting the aorta and its proximal branches and commonly occurring in Asian females aged 15?35 years. The mechanism of stroke and Transient Ischemic Attacks (TIA) in TA is likely due to decreases or shifts in blood flow secondary to steno-occlusive disease and/or thromboembolism exacerbated by hypertension. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: We present a 37 year old Hispanic female with history of TA diagnosed two years prior to presentation with ten episodes of right amarousis fugaux lasting 10?60 seconds as well as one episode of left sided weakness and dysarthria lasting several minutes. She had no residual symptoms after the episodes and her symptoms were consistent with a TIA. She received MR imaging of her brain and neck and was referred to cardiothoracic surgery. Results: MR imaging of the neck demonstrated a complete occlusion of the left subclavian artery and bilateral common carotid arteries. MR imaging of the brain revealed no evidence of acute infarction on diffusion weighted imaging. Blood supply to her brain came from the right vertebral artery and from collateral flow to the left side. Conclusion: This patient underwent surgical replacement of the ascending aorta and aortic valve as well as a carotid bifurcation graft. She has continued treatment with steroids for her TA and is doing well as an outpatient without recurrent TIA symptoms. This patient represents a dramatic case of occlusive disease in TA causing TIA, and demonstrates the benefit of surgical intervention. 19.? Reversible Vasoconstriction in a Migraineur Possibly Triggered by Phentermine Elliot Hogg1, Andres Gonzalez2, Nerses Sanossian2?1Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States, 2Department of Neurology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome (RCVS) is characterized by multi-vessel stenosis/occlusion leading to ischemic stroke. We present a report of a young woman using the appetite suppressant phentermine who was initially misdiagnosed and untreated. The case demonstrates the importance of considering RCVS in the setting of atypical headache, and the role of neuroimaging in prompt diagnosis. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Report Results: A 33 year old woman migraineur presented with severe atypical headache and right-sided facial numbness. Seven days after discharge she returned to the ER with aphasia and right-sided hemiparesis. A secondary hospital's MRI revealed an acute left anterior cerebral artery (ACA) stroke. LP was unremarkable. She was treated with clopidogrel and Vicodin. After her condition worsened she was anticoagulated. An MRI and catheter angiography demonstrated multi-vessel stenosis and left subclinoid ICA occlusion leading to a diagnosis of vasculitis and treatment with intravenous steroid. She was transferred for tertiary care with a misdiagnosis of Moyamoya disease. On transfer additional history indicated premorbid use of oral contraceptives, sumatriptan, promethazine and phentermine-based diet pills. Treatment was begun in the ICU with a standard vasospasm protocol of hypervolumia with normal saline, and hypertension with dopamine and nimodipine. High dose magnesium oxide was given for its vasodilative effects. Over the next week, cerebral arterial velocities on transcranial Doppler paralleling clinical improvement. Conclusion: An environment of migraine-related vascular hyperreactivity and phentermine use may have predisposed to RCVS. Multimodal neuroimaging, and an absence of vascular risk and inflammation, were keys to diagnosis. 20.? Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor (PNET) of the CNS in a 73 Year Old Man: A Case Report? Remia Paduga, Saud Khan University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, MO, United States Introduction: PNET is primarily a childhood neoplasm, it is histologically similar to medulloblastoma but occur in locations other than the cerebellum. It is very rare, esp in adults. We report a 73 y/o man who presented with PNET. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: The patient has been previously healthy until he developed tremors followed by a rapid decline in his memory and cognition. He became weak in his legs, lost significant weight in a span of three months. He had an extensive imaging study of his neuraxis which showed diffuse meningeal enhancement. Results: He had a tenuous and one month long work-up which includes basic and elaborate rheumatologic, infectious, metabolic, oncologic and toxic investigations. His whole body was imaged for presumed CNS metastases. He had four serial lumbar taps. He had numerous biopsies namely, thyroid, skin (3 sites), meninges and colon (2 sites). His fourth lumbar tap showed malignant cells and biopsies of the sites mentioned above turned out negative except for the meninges. After numerous histopathologic stains and markers of the meninges and review of his images, he was finally diagnosed with PNET of the CNS. Patient and family then decided to pursue palliative care as his prognosis is dim. Conclusion: Since 1987 only 24 cases of CNS PNET in adults have been reported in the literature, 21 supratentorial cases, 2 cases localized in the spinal cord and 1 case in the posterior fossa. These included 12 men and 8 women with age ranged from 7?69. Our patient will be the 25th case and the oldest so far seen. 21.? Superficial Siderosis of the CNS: Clinical and Imaging Features Lama Chahine, Alexander Rae-Grant Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, United States Introduction: Superficial Siderosis (SS) of the CNS is a rare disorder characterized by repeated microhemorrhages into the subarachnoid space with resultant subpial cerebral and spinal hemosiderin deposition. We present a case of SS and discuss the imaging features. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: patient's medical record, laboratory tests, and imaging studies were reviewed. Results: 49 year old male presented with subacute bilateral sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL). MRI showed diffuse hypointense signal along the surface of the inferior aspect of the cerebellum, brain stem, and spinal cord. Lumbar puncture showed xanthochromia. Cerebral and spinal angiograms did not show any source of hemorrhage. 9 years later, he had developed leg stiffness, gait instability, and dysarthria. Physical examination showed decreased auditory acuity, severe dysarthria, normal motor power in the upper extremities, and no antigravity power in the lower extremities with bilateral spasticity. MRI showed thoracic spine cyst that was decompressed. Spasticity, dysarthria, and spastic paraparesis progressed; at last follow-up he is no longer able to ambulate. Conclusion: SS of the CNS is caused by recurrent subarachnoid hemorrhages (SAH) with accumulation of hemosiderin and iron-containing pigments in the leptomeninges, brain surface, brainstem, cerebellum, cranial nerves, and spinal cord. The cause of hemorrhage can not always be identified but in some cases there may be dural pathology or tumors. Classic clinical features include progressive SNHL, cerebellar ataxia, pyramidal signs, ataxia, and headache. MRI findings are pathognomonic and include hypointense signal on the surface of the cerebral hemispheres, brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord. 22.? Selective Motion Perception Deficit Following Cerebellar Stroke Sharmineh Shams, Adrian Burgos, Nerses Sanossian University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Background: Motion perception is inferring the speed and direction of objects based on visual, vestibular and proprioceptive inputs and is mediated by the cerebellum. We present a case where a cerebellar stroke produced motion perception deficits by disrupting visual-motor integration mechanisms involved in perceptual stabilization. Methods: Case report Results: A 42 year-old woman presents with a chief complain of trouble with her vision. She is able to see stationary objects but is not able to recognize them either she is moving or the object is. She is able to track a moving object, such as a finger with her eye, but as she is tracking it, if another moving object comes into her field of vision, she is not able to recognize and identify it. She experienced a subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm about 9 years ago and received endovascular embolization of the PICA aneurysm. Neuroimaging revealed an infarction of the inferior midline cerebellum and an occluded aneurysm without any visualization of flow in the left PICA artery. Her symptoms were present since the embolization, without significant improvement, and had led to severe disability. Conclusions: The cerebellum contains representations for pursuit in the flocculus most likely involved in the coordination of pursuit and in the posterior vermis precise adjustments of the eye movements such as adaptation of pursuit initiation. Defective ocular motor control including the ability to track moving targets and motion direction discrimination can result from midline cerebellar stroke and lead to significant disability. 23.? Higher Prevalence of Silent Lacunes In Stroke Patients With Moderate and Severe Sleep Apnea Mohammed Al-Amoodi1, Wahid Rashidzada2?1University of Missouri, Kansas City, MO, United States, 2Headache and Pain Center, Leawood, KS, United States Introduction: We investigated the relationship between subclinical ischemic lesions and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in a population of patients presenting to the hospital with stroke. We examined the association of OSA with the prevalence of silent lacunar infarction, periventricular hyperintensity (PVH), and cerebrovascular ischemic disease (CVID). Patients (or Materials) and Methods: 65 subjects presented to our hospital with a stroke. Three types of silent lesions were assessed by MRI. OSA was assessed using ResMed ApneaLink. Cross-sectional study was performed on OSA severity and the prevalence of silent cerebrovascular lesions detected by brain MRI. Data were subdivided into 4 levels of OSA severity; None, Mild, Moderate, and Severe based on measured respiratory disturbance index (RDI) values. Data was collapsed into a low RDI (None and Mild) group and a high RDI (Moderate and Severe). Results: Independent samples t-tests revealed that there was a statistically significant difference between low and high RDI patients on mean PVH (p < 0.001), and number of Lacunes (p = 0.001). Chi-square revealed a difference between low and high RDI in the CVID (p < 0.001) with a correlation of r = 0.498 between level of RDI and CVID. Conclusion: Results indicate that stroke patients with moderate to severe OSA (RDI greater or equal to 15/h) have a higher prevalence of silent lacunar infarctions, periventricular hyperintensity and cerebrovascular ischemic disease than stroke patients with less OSA (RDI less than 15/h). 24.? Quantitative Analysis of MRI for Evaluation of Brain Iron Deposition in Alzheimer Disease Yuri Suleimanov1, Sergiy Radchenko2, Vasyl Sava1, Juan Sanchez-Ramos1, Leon Prockop1?1University of South Florida, Tampa, United States, 2National Taras Shevchenko University, Kyiv, Ukraine Introduction: The increased iron deposition in brain associated with shortening of T2 relaxation times on MRI can be used to track the development of AD. Recently, high field MRI was employed (Schenk et al., 2006) as a trustworthy method for iron assessment in brain. However, 3 T MRI is not always available. In our study we offer a novel method based on routine 1.5 T MRI protocols. Patients and Methods: Brain imaging protocols were developed and applied to 42 MCI and AD patients and 20 age-matched controls using 1.5 T MRI. Dual spin echo images with TR = 2.666 sec; TE = 30  FOV = 22 ? 22 cm; matrix 256 ? 256 and slice thickness of 4 mm were acquired on 1.5 T scanner (General Electric, Waukesha, WI). Results: The region of interest (ROI) was the corpus striatum (putamen and globus pallidus). It was segmented on coronal slices and T2-weighted images were computed to generate series of contour lines representing equal T2 values for hypothetical surfaces containing multiple planes. Computer analysis involved the selection of base contour representing identical T2 value in all slices. The iron indices were computed by combining data obtained from sequential slices within ROI. Total iron index was plotted against diagnosis of normal, MCI and AD. One-way ANOVA revealed significant differences (P < 0.05) between three groups. Conclusion: Standard 1.5 T MRI can be used for quantitative determination of iron accumulation in both MCI and AD subjects and may serve as a biomarker of disease progression. 25.? MRI (DWI, T2, Flair Sequences) Findings of an Acute Ischemic Stroke in a 61 Year Old Patient Taken at Least 30 Minutes BEFORE Symptom Onset: A Case Report Remia Paduga, Gary Gronseth University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, MO, United States Introduction: MRI DWI sequence has been reported in the literature to detect ischemic changes in the brain as early as 3?5 minutes of symptom onset. Here we report a case of a 61 year old veteran patient who demonstrated clinical stroke shortly after his MRI was taken. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 61 year old patient with a small cell cancer of the lung was seen with multiple neurological complaints of four month duration that comes and goes consistent with a paraneoplastic process. An MRI of the head was recommended by the neurology consult team performed a day after he received chemotherapeutic agents. His MRI showed acute stroke in the left perirolandic cortical area and posterior MCA distribution in the T2, flair and DWI sequences. After the MRI was taken, patient went to the parking lot to smoke and was seen by family members a few minutes later slumped on the wheelchair with complete right sided weakness and burnt fingers from smoldering cigarette butt. Results: The patient was given IV TPA within 3 hours from the last time he was seen normal and had marked improvement in his dysarthria, facial droop and dense hemiplegia. He had a post ictal CT scan done six days after which showed subtle hypodense areas in the left MCA distribution. His paraneoplastic process turned out to be a Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome which is another rare entity. Conclusion: MRI (DWI, T2, Flair sequences) findings in an ischemic stroke can antedate symptom onset. There has been no case report of similar event in the literature. 26.? A Severe Case of Bilateral Striatopallidodentate Calcinosis, Treated with a Dopamine Agonist ? A Case Report Sara Khan, Jinny Tavee Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Bilateral symmetric striatopallidodentate calcinosis (BSPDC), commonly known as Fahr's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that presents with neuropsychiatric and extrapyramidal symptoms. As there is no known treatment that limits calcium production or deposition in the brain, most therapeutic modalities are aimed at symptomatic relief. We report a case of severe BSPDC which symptomatically responded to Ropinirole. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 36-year-old female presented with progressive slurred speech, gait imbalance, choreoathetosis, blephrospasm, mood lability and cognitive decline. Exam was significant for frontal lobe signs, upper extremity dysmetria, dysarthric speech, ataxic gait, hyperreflexia and choreoathetosis. Results: CT and MRI brain demonstrated diffuse symmetric calcium deposition in bilateral basal ganglia, thalamic, subcortical, cerebellar, and central pontine regions. Extensive metabolic and genetic testing were negative. Wilson's disease, parathyroid, thyroid, calcium metabolism and infectious disorders were also excluded. The patient was treated with Ropinirole, a dopamine agonist, with marked improvement in speech and limb ataxia. Conclusion: Idiopathic BSPD calcification or Fahr's disease is a rare disorder that clinically manifests as a spectrum of movement disorders and seizures. CT remains the most effective screening tool. While varying signal intensities on MRI may correlate with different stages of the disease, it remains unclear whether or not the severity of symptoms corresponds with the degree of calcification. Part of the symptom complex may be attributed to reduced levels of dopamine with in the basal ganglia secondary to calcification. Our patient's symptoms responded to a dopamine agonist, perhaps identifying a class of drugs which can be used for the management of severe Fahr's disease. Much work still needs to be done to define neuroprotective agents to prevent or reverse calcification. 27.? Multimodal Neuroimaging in Pediatric Stroke Extends the Treatment Window: A Case Report Waimei Tai, Nerses Sanossian, Arthur Partikian University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Multimodal Neuroimaging in Pediatric Stroke Extends the Treatment Window: A Case Report Introduction: Pediatric stroke is rare and difficult to diagnose. Given the devastating neurologic sequelea of ischemic stroke in children, it is important to recognize and treat aggressively. Recent clinical trials in adults have demonstrated efficacy of intravenous TPA up to 4.5 hours after onset and smaller series have described efficacy up to 6 hours using neuroimaging. We report the case of a 13 year-old boy in whom neuroimaging led to use of intravenous TPA five hours after symptom onset. Patient: A 13 year old boy was found down, alert, but unable to speak or move his right side by teachers during a field trip with a last know well time (LKWT) of 09:30. He was helicopter-transported for urgent evaluation by the neurology team at 11:30. Initial exam revealed right homonymous hemianopia, severe dysarthria, expressive aphasia, right hemiplegia and sensory loss with an initial NHISS of 23. Non-contrast head CT was unremarkable and was followed by urgent MRI/A with perfusion-weighted imaging. MR demonstrated diffusion-perfusion mismatch of >50% and lack of flow signal in the left intracranial carotid on MRA. The decision for treatment with IV TPA was made and a 0.9 mg/kg dose was administered at 4.75 hours after LKWT. Repeat head CT in 24 hours showed no hemorrhage and patient's NIHSS was 12. During hospitalization he was found to have a hypercoagulable condition and he continued to improve to an NIHSS of 7. Conclusion: Multimodal neuroimaging can help diagnose and treat pediatric stroke outside of previously established time windows. 28.? Retrospective Case Series of Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy: Typical and Atypical Etiologies and Neuroimaging Features Vikram Penumalli, Kelly Blend, Kristen Gruenther, Patrick Capone Winchester Neuroimaging, Virginia Commonwealth University, Winchester, VA, United States Introduction: Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) is a clinical and neuroimaging diagnosis that is commonly seen in the setting of uncontrolled hypertension, ecclampsia, renal failure or immunosuppressive therapy. We present a case series of patients diagnosed with RPLS at a tertiary care hospital and review the clinical presentation, medical comorbidities and neuroimaging findings of these patients. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: 16 patients with RPLS were collected retrospectively over the past 9 years. Hospital charts and neuroimaging findings were reviewed. Results: We identified 16 patients with RPLS (14 females and 2 males) with a mean age of 43.6 years (range 20 ? 67 years). Associated medical conditions included 3 patients undergoing narcotic withdrawal which to our knowledge has not been described, 1 patient with Guillain-Barre syndrome, and previous well characterized etiologies such as ecclampsia, renal insufficiency, hypertensive emergency, and immunosuppressive agents. Atypical neuroimaging features included hemorrhage, cortical lesions, and frontal lobe edema. Conclusion: RPLS is a heterogenous clinical and neuroimaging diagnosis that can be seen with a variety of medical comorbidities leading to a failure of cerebral autoregulation and resulting in variable patterns of cerebral edema. Recognition of the spectrum of associated medical comorbidities and neuroimaging findings is the key to making this diagnosis which usually has a favourable prognosis. 29.? A Case of Familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease Presenting as an Acute Ischemic Stroke Esteban Cheng-Ching, Sara Khan, Muhammad S. Hussain, Jinny Tavee The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) is a fatal condition characterized by a rapidly progressive dementia and neurological decline. We report a case of familial CJD presenting with stroke-like episodes and preserved cognition that manifested as evolving areas of restricted diffusion on serial MRI studies. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: We reviewed the patient's medical record, laboratory tests and imaging studies. Results: 60-year-old woman presented with sudden onset of right upper extremity weakness. On examination, she had focal proximal weakness, increased tone, and brisk reflexes in her right arm. The first MRI demonstrated restricted diffusion in the left caudate. A month later, the patient developed acute right leg weakness. Followup MRI showed restricted diffusion in the left medial frontal and frontoparietal cortex suggestive of embolic infarcts, although the ADC map showed no abnormality. This prompted a CSF analysis, which demonstrated a positive 14?3-3 protein. One month later, the patient developed quadriparesis and diffuse myoclonic jerks with intact cognition. She expired shortly afterwards. Autopsy confirmed spongiform changes of the brain. It was later discovered that her father had also died of autopsy-confirmed CJD although he had presented with dementia. Conclusion: Familial CJD is typically characterized by a rapidly progressive encephalopathy of earlier onset and more protracted clinical course than sporadic CJD. Although stroke-like progression has occasionally been seen with the sporadic variant, it has never been described in familial CJD. This case is the first description of familial CJD presenting as multiple stroke-like episodes. 30.? Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Corticothalamic Connectivity in a Case of Focal Status Epilepticus Vikram Penumalli, Radoslav Raychev, M. Kelly Nicholas, Fernando Goldenberg, James Tao Department of Neurology, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, IL, United States Introduction: Transient periictal neuroimaging findings such as cortical edema and gyriform enhancement in the setting of status epilepticus have been well described and are thought to be the result of neurovascular coupling, hyperperfusion and glutamate excitotoxicity involving predominantly cortical structures. In this case of focal status epilepticus, a less common pattern of restricted diffusion in the thalamus as well as the cortical ribbon is described and highlights the role of corticothalamic pathways in focal seizure disorders. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case presentation of a 68 year old female with focal status epilepticus treated in a neurointensive care unit. Results: A 68 year old female had an unwitnessed fall at home and was found to have a left hip fracture. During her emergency room evaluation, her exam showed left gaze preference and left upper extremity weakness. The neurology consult team witnessed a focal seizure involving forced left gaze deviation and left sided myoclonus. EEG revealed focal electrographic status epilepticus involving the right posterior quadrant. MRI demonstrated areas of restricted diffusion involving the right temporo-occipital cortex and right posterior thalamus that mimicked a right posterior cerebral artery infarction. Lumbar puncture revealed concomitant non-herpetic viral meningitis. After treatment of focal status epilepticus, the patient had follow-up neuroimaging which demonstrated near complete resolution of the lesions, suggesting that these were the result of excessive seizure activity rather than the cause of it. Conclusions: 1. The pattern of transient cortical and subcortical lesions seen in this case demonstrates that corticothalamic pathways may be involved in reinforcement and propagation in focal seizure disorders. 2. Periictal neuroimaging in the setting of status epilepticus may reveal a variety of transient lesions that may mimic stroke, tumor or infection. Accurate differentiation of these entities is important when attempting to predict a patient's neurological prognosis. 1 [ Anatomic MRI (A however, the difference was not statistically significant. Restricted diffusion was detected in 10 lesions from progression group but only in one lesion from non-progression group. Conclusion: Diffusion and perfusion MR enable non-invasive differentiation of tumor progression from treatment-induced changes in most cases with high accuracy. Restricted diffusion is highly specific for recurrent tumor. MRS was found not to contribute significantly to overall diagnostic accuracy due to frequent overlap of metabolite ratios, which is likely to be due to inherent heterogeneity of these lesions. 37.? Cryptococcosis of the CNS Presenting with Disseminated White Matter Lesions Daniel Ontaneda, Steven Shook Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, United States Introduction: Cryptococcus neoformans is an encapsulated yeast that produces a picture of meningo-encephalitis, most commonly seen in immunosupressed patients. Typical MRI imaging findings in Cryptococcal meningo-encephalitis include mass lesions, pseudo cysts, radiologic meningitis, and hydrocephalus. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: 69 year old male with PMH significant for oral candidiasis, GE leiomyoma, prostate cancer, and hypertension presented to the clinic with a 6 month history of progressive gait dysfunction and lower extremity weakness. Neurological examination showed paraparesis, dysmetria in the upper and lower extremities. Gait was markedly ataxic. Results: MRI of the brain showed confluent T2 hyperintensities involving bilateral sub cortical structures, thalamus, midbrain, and pons. These lesions were hypointesne on T1 imaging. CSF examination showed 19 WBC and 18 RBC, protein was 496 and glucose was 10. Fungal culture grew Cryptococcus neoformans, latex agglutination for Cryptococcus was also positive. HIV serology was negative. CD4 count was 94. All other CSF studies were normal. Conclusion: Our case illustrates a unique presentation of Cryptococcal meningo-encephalitis in a patient with idiopathic CD4 lymphocytopenia. Diffuse white matter lesions are rare in this entity. Demyelination has been proposed as the pathological basis of these changes. It is felt that cryptococcal infections may produce a radiological picture similar to ADEM. Leukoencephalopathy should be considered along with the more classic imaging features of Cryptococcosis such as cryptococcomas, hydrocephalus, and meningeal enhancement in CNS. 38.? Multiple Subarachnoid Abscesses due to Group B Streptococcal Meningitis Andrea Synowiec, Sandeep Rana Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, United States Introduction: We present a case of Group B Streptococcus (GBS) meningitis in an elderly male with rare imaging findings of multiple subarachnoid abscesses. Case Presentation: A 70-year-old Caucasian male with a history of well-controlled diabetes and hypertension presented to the emergency department after acute onset of diaphoresis, flu-like symptoms, fever, and rapid decline in mentation. He had no history of recent infections or travel. MRI was performed at admission and again one week later. Results: Initial MRI revealed a widened CSF space at the vertex in the frontal and parietal regions, with a diffusely septated appearance of the subarachnoid space containing fluid/fluid levels within a few of the loculations. There was notable opacification of the mastoid air cells bilaterally. Lumbar puncture revealed 750 WBC, glucose of 56 mg/dL, and protein of 856 mg/dL. Group B Streptococcus antigen was positive in the CSF. CSF gram stain revealed few gram-positive cocci, although blood and CSF cultures showed no growth. The patient was initially treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics. A second MRI revealed increased debris in the subarachnoid loculations, consistent with multiple subarachnoid abscesses. Gadolinium was not administered due to renal insufficiency. Conclusion: GBS is a frequent cause of meningitis in neonates, and less commonly can cause meningitis in peri-partum women and immunosuppressed adults. We present the unusual imaging finding of multiple subarachnoid abscesses due to GBS meningitis in a diabetic elderly male. 39.? Radiographic Characteristics of a Case of Collision Tumor Comprised of Primary B-cell CNS Lymphoma and Anaplastic Astrocytoma Lara Kunschner, Frank Pu, Robert Williams Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, United States Introduction: The juxtaposition of dural-based tumor and malignant glioma has been infrequently reported. Occasional metastatic rests of systemic malignancies have been identified within primary brain tumors, the so-called collision tumor. Much less common, though, is the collision of 2 primary central nervous system malignancies, of which only one is gliomatous in origin. The exception, of course, is the co-occurrence of glioblastoma and sarcoma. Trivial numbers of non-malignant inflammatory cells within a glioma is fairly common. We present a case of a collision tumor consisting of primary B-cell CNS lymphoma and anaplastic astrocytoma. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A healthy, 29 yo man presented with a generalized seizure. Initial evaluation revealed a complex, left parietal mass on brain CT and MRI. The tumor was a collision tumor due to meeting diagnostic criteria for both primary B-cell CNS lymphoma and Anaplastic astrocytoma within the solitary tumor. Results: The tumor had heterogeneous characteristics pre-contrast, enhanced post-contrast, and involved both grey and white matter. No dural thickening or enhancement was noted. The radiographic and pathological images are presented. Radiographic findings from recent cases of malignant glioma in juxtaposition with dural?based malignancy are also presented, as well as typical MRI findings in both primary lymphoma and AA as isolated tumor. Conclusion: Central nervous system collision tumors are rare entities, especially when comprised of 2 primary brain malignancies. The presence of an identifiable tissue plane is helpful in the radiographic diagnosis, but overlapping characteristics make radiographic diagnosis very difficult. 40.? MECP2 Duplication Associated with Dysgenesis of the Corpus Callosum Ngoc Minh Le, Manikum Moodley Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Mutations in methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) on chromosome Xq28 is a well known cause for classical Rett syndrome, an X-linked dominant developmental disorder, predominantly seen in females. Mutations may also cause a more severe neurodevelopmental phenotype in rare surviving males. MECP2 duplication causes a different phenotype which includes severe mental retardation, hypotonia, recurrent respiratory infections, and clinical features of Rett syndrome. There have been no reports in the literature of brain abnormalities on MRI in Rett syndrome, except for diffuse atrophy as measured by volumetric studies. One prior case report has associated MECP2 duplication with periventricular nodular heterotopia. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 5 year old boy with severe global developmental delay since 9 months of age presented mild hypotonia, stereotypies, optic atrophy, plagiocephaly, and hypertelorism. He was adopted at birth. Results: At 1 year of age, chromosome karyotype was normal (46XY) and brain MRI showed dysgenesis of the corpus callosum (absence of rostrum and markedly thinned genu body and splenium) with repeat MRI 2 years later showing additional diffuse white matter volume loss. Chromosomal microarray (CMA) revealed chromosome Xq28 duplication of 877 Kb in size which contains the region for MECP2. Conclusion: Unlike Rett syndrome, MECP2 duplications can be associated with brain malformations, including malformations of cortical development and midline defects. Therefore in patients with developmental delay without clear etiology, CMA may provide a definitive diagnosis and in those with MECP2 duplications, brain MRI may reveal associated intracranial abnormalities. 41.? MRI Findings of an Unusual Case of Hemorrhagic Primary CNS T-cell Lymphoma ? A Case Report Daniel Thielemann, Jon Brillman, Sandeep Rana Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States Introduction: We present MR findings of malignant primary CNS T-cell lymphoma. Case Presentation: A 42 year old Kuwaiti female with no significant past medical history presented to an outside hospital with a chronic history of headache, altered mental status, and dizziness. Results: Based on original MRI and CSF findings she was initially treated for encephalitis. She returned one month later with worsening symptoms and new-onset generalized seizures. Repeat MRI scanning demonstrated interval increase in lesion burden and hemorrhagic changes throughout, at which point she underwent treatment with intravenous steroids for presumed cerebral vasculitis. The patient worsened, and follow-up MRI demonstrated multiple focal supratentorial hemorrhagic lesions with surrounding vasogenic edema, diffuse areas of restricted diffusion, and subfalcine herniation. MRA demonstrated widespread irregularities of the intracranial vasculature. The patient underwent brain biopsy which revealed the diagnosis as malignant primary CNS T-cell lymphoma with extensive hemorrhage and necrosis. HIV antibody type 1 and 2 were negative. She underwent left-sided decompressive hemicraniectomy for amelioration of increasing intracranial pressure and was treated with intravenous steroids. Ultimately, she succumbed to her illness. Conclusion: Primary CNS T-cell lymphoma is an extremely rare disorder with an incidence of 3.6?8.5% of lymphomas and has a poor prognosis. We present unusual MR imaging of primary CNS T-cell lymphoma with hemorrhagic changes in an HIV negative patient. 42.? Midbrain Stroke Causing Pupil Sparing Oculomotor Nerve Palsy in Patient with Diabetes Parastou Shilian, Adel Olshansky, Nerses Sanossian, Said Beydoun USC, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Pupil sparing oculomotor nerve palsy (PSOMNP) in patients with diabetes is commonly due to ischemic neuropathy in the subarachnoid space. Evaluation of PSOMNP often relies on clinical symptoms/signs and often does not utilize brain MRI. We present a case of PSOMNP secondary to brainstem infarct. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case report and neuroimaging Results: 72 year old woman with diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure, hypertension, and aortic valve stenosis developed left ptosis and diplopia after aortic valve replacement surgery. Her post-operative course was complicated by one episode of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. Patient was started on anticoagulation. Neurological examination revealed complete ptosis of the left eye that was depressed and abducted on primary gaze. Patient was unable to cross midline on adduction or elevate her left eye. Pupils were symmetrically reactive. MRI of the brain demonstrated DWI hyperintensity in the area of left paramedian midbrain consistent with acute infarct. Conclusion: Both diabetic ischemic mononeuropathy and stroke can lead to PSOMNP. Most cases of diabetic patients with PSOMNP are not evaluated with appropriate neuroimaging and may, in fact represent ischemic stroke. This case demonstrates the importance of considering ischemic midbrain infarction in the differential diagnosis of PSOMNP and obtaining appropriate neuroimaging. 43.??Hot Cross Bun? Sign and Other Neuro-imaging Findings in a Patient with Multisystem Atrophy: Case Report Arash Taavoni, Jon Brillman, Sandeep Rana Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, United States Introduction: Multisystem atrophy (MSA) consists of a group of disorders characterized by neuronal degeneration mainly in the substantia nigra, striatum and cerebellum. Although MSA is distinct from Parkinson's disease it shares many aspects, such as tremors, cogwheel rigidity, bradykinesia, ataxia and autonomic findings. Our case report underscores the importance of neuro-imaging in diagnosing MSA. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: 57 year-old, female, past medical history of hypertension, diabetic neuropathy, status post gastric feeding tube, and a three year history of progressive lower extremity ?weakness? to the point of being wheelchair bound. She had severe cognitive impairment and could not care for herself. Patient presented to the hospital with fever and diarrhea. On physical exam the patient was orient only to self and place. Positive Cogwheel rigidity and orthostatic hypotension. Mild resting tremor. Results: MRI demonstrated a very prominent ?hot cross bun? sign in which there is a cruciform linear area of high signal on T2WI in the pons with tiny round darker areas within the checkerboard of the cross. Atrophy of the cerebellum and pons is also seen. Conclusion: In our case report, we describes a patient whose MRI findings demonstrate recently described finding of ?hot cross bun? sign in MSA. This finding is highly specific to this disorder. Although neuro-imaging is not necessary to make the diagnosis of MSA, MRI findings can be crucial to making the correct diagnosis. 44.? DWI-Negative Stroke and Pure Hypoperfusion: An Imaging Indication for Hemodynamic Therapies? Sarah Song, Ichiro Yuki, Satoshi Tateshima, Doojin Kim, David S. Liebeskind UCLA Stroke Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Acute stroke therapy focuses solely on arterial recanalization, yet reversal of hypoperfusion is the ultimate therapeutic goal. Although the underlying stroke etiology is rarely established in the acute phase, compromised hemodynamic status and risk of evolving infarction may be dissimilar in progressive stenosis compared with thromboembolic occlusion. Imaging of collateral perfusion and infarct patterns may provide clues for optimal treatment in a given patient. Methods: Case report. Results: A 68-year-old woman with diabetes presented with acute expressive aphasia, right facial paresis and right hemiparesis (NIHSS 12). CT confirmed no hemorrhage, and the patient received intravenous tPA. Repeat exam 6 hours after onset showed improvement in strength but persistent aphasia (NIHSS 7). MRI revealed no DWI hyperintensity but extensive areas of perfusion delays in the left MCA territory. MRA showed severe flow attenuation of the left M1 and distal branches. Angiography revealed elongated stenosis of the left M1. Collateral flow was supplied via leptomeningeal anastomses from ipsilateral ACA and PCA, leaving a vulnerable area in the left frontal operculum consistent with localization of her aphasia. Treatment with IV fluids and permissive blood pressures were initiated and the patient was normal within days. Serial multimodal MRI revealed no subsequent DWI lesion despite persistent perfusion delays. Conclusion: DWI-negative stroke and pure hypoperfusion may be a marker of transient failure in established collaterals. Stroke and neurological deficits may result from pure hypoperfusion. Multiparametric characterization of collateral perfusion may chronicle restoration of cerebral blood volume and neurological improvement despite persistent delays in perfusion. 45.? Superior Sagittal Sinus Thrombosis ? Imaging Pitfalls Marcella A. Wozniak3, Sandra Ruby1, Alexander Mark2?1University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States, 2University of Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, United States, 3Baltimore VHA Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, United States Introduction: Patients with superior sagittal sinus (SSS) thrombosis (SSST) can present with cerebral venous infarction, intracerebral hemorrhage, headache or increased intracranial pressure. Methods: Three clinical cases. Results: 1. 53 yo woman on hormone replacement complained of headache then developed left weakness and left visual field loss. Head CAT revealed a region of hypodensity in right parieto-occipital region with hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance (MR) venography (MRV) sagittal time of flight sequences suggested partially occlusive SSST, but phase contrast sequences revealed a patent SSS. 2. 38 yo woman with prior DVT and migraines had refractory headache and opening pressure of 34 on lumbar puncture. Head MR suggested increased signal on T1 sequences in the entire SSS. MRV was initially reviewed as ?flow? in SSS. Review of T1 sequences revealed subacute thrombus in the entire SSS resulted in increased signal that mimicked the ?flow? on the MRV. 3. 34 yo morbidly obese woman presented with the sudden onset of left hemiparesis, normal head CAT and received IV tPA. Her weakness resolved. Repeat head CAT and CAT angiogram were normal. She had a focal then generalized seizure beginning in the left arm. A diagnosis of ?transient tumor attack? was considered. A head CAT with contrast revealed a new area of hypodensity in right frontal lobe and decreased enhancement in the SSS. Conclusion: MRV and CAT venography can facilitate the diagnosis of SSS thrombosis. Correlation of imaging with clinical presentation and careful review of all available imaging is needed when assessing patients for SSS thrombosis. 46.? Combined Lateral Pontine and Extrapontine Myelinolysis Ehsan Malek, Alireza Negahban, Jamshid Ahmadi University of Southern California, Keck School of Medicine, Radiology Department, Lose Angles, CA, United States Objective: To illustrate detailed MR imaging of extensive myelinolysis associated with rapid correction of severe hypernatremia. Findings: After three weeks binge drinking, a 40 year old alcoholic man admitted in stupor with a serum sodium level of 190 mmol/L. He progressed to coma with flaccid quadriplegia following correction of serum sodium to 155 mmol/L over 3 days. MRI showed extensive bilateral involvement of the ventrolateral aspect of the rostral pons with sparing of the central pons and pyramidal tract. The lesions were hypointense on T1, and hyperintense on T2. These MR findings show a butterfly appearance of the pons. The extrapontine lesions were in globus pallidi, putamen, claustri, thalmai and hypothalami. Repeat MRI four weeks later showed slight improvement. Three months later MRI shows development of minimal atrophy in the involved areas of pons and deep brain tissue. Conclusion: The MRI findings correlate closely with a postmortem neuropathologic description of a single previous case report in 1989 without MRI. 47.? Bilateral Sturge-Weber Syndrome Georg Evers, Tobias Loddenkemper Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, United States Introduction: Sturge-Weber-syndrome (SWS) is a sporadic congenital neurocutaneous syndrome presenting with unilateral facial vascular nevus and ipsilateral leptomeningeal angiomatosis. We present an infant boy with bilateral facial nevus, bilateral cerebral leptomeningeal enhancement, and calcifications. Methods: Case study including history, MRI, CT and EEG-data. Results: This infant boy presented at birth with a bilateral facial vascular malformation extending also over parts of the trunk and extremities. Exam revealed spastic quadriparesis. Seizures occurred on day of life three. Brain MRI at one month of age showed diffuse leptomeningeal enhancement over both cerebral hemispheres, enhancing bilateral ischemic white matter changes as well as atrophy. Bifrontal white matter calcifications were confirmed on subsequent head-CT at 2 month of age. EEG showed asymmetry of the background and sleep structures with higher amplitudes on the right and bilateral posterior spikes. EEG-seizures arose independently from both hemispheres. Clinical seizures consisted of left clonic, tonic, and eye versive seizures. Follow up MRI scan at 3 month of age revealed progressive bilateral atrophy of both cerebral hemispheres, worsening ischemic white matter changes, and increasing calcifications. Seizures remained refractory to treatment with phenobarbital, phenytoin, topiramate, clonazepam and levetiracetam. Conclusion: The case illustrates a rare bilateral manifestation of SWS. Bilateral SWS may represent an extreme variant of the SWS-spectrum or even a separate syndrome. Calcifications and meningeal angiomatosis are typical features of SWS but bilateral calcifications are rarely seen. Additionally, calcifications are unusual under one year of age. Hemispherectomy is usually not a treatment option in patients with severe bilateral SWS. 48.? Orbital Apex Syndrome: A Rare Case of Perineural Invasion of Skin Cancer Sara Khan, Charles Bae Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, United States Introduction: Perineural invasion and orbital extension is a rare manifestation of skin cancer. Initial neuroimaging is often negative which can delay diagnosis. We present a case of this rare condition, with an emphasis on the clinical presentation and neuroimaging findings. Patient and Methods: A 57 year old man presented with progressive symptoms over 3 months. He initially noticed right forehead numbness followed by double vision. He quickly developed a complete right ptosis. He also had a severe right-sided headache and ocular pain. Past medical history was significant for Squamous cell carcinoma of his forehead (had resection four years prior) without recurrence. Neurological exam was normal except for right ptosis, fixed and dilated right pupil, complete right opthalmoplegia and numbness in the right V1 distribution. Results: A brain MRI performed two months after symptom onset was normal. Cerebrospinal fluid was normal. Brain MRI a month later was still normal. However, a dedicated orbit MRI demonstrated an enhancing right orbital apex mass which involved the right cavernous sinus and superior oblique muscle. Open biopsy of the mass revealed a poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma with perineural invasion. Conclusion: Orbital apex syndrome resulting from perineural spread of squamous cell carcinoma often presents in the setting of a previously treated head or neck skin cancer. The diagnosis can be missed without local recurrence of the skin cancer. It can be confused with other conditions (e.g. trigeminal neuralgia, herpes zoster). Imaging may not pick up an abnormality until macroscopic disease develops in the orbit. 49.? Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome Due to Ephedrine After Elective Cesarean Section Qing Hao, Matthew Tenser, Radoslav Raychev, David Liebeskind UCLA Stroke Center, Los Angeles, United States Introduction: Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) manifests neuroimaging findings similar to hypertensive encephalopathy and eclampsia, including predominantly bilateral subcortical lesions and angiographic features of vasoconstriction. Sympathomimetic agents related to ephedrine may cause vasoconstriction, yet RPLS due to ephedrine has not been described. Patients and Methods: Case report. Results: A 31- year-old woman with no past medical history suddenly developed right upper quadrant visual deficit, short-term memory loss and dull headache associated with nausea, vomiting and photophobia at 24 hours after elective cesarean section. She was not hypertensive or eclamptic, but received ephedrine to avoid hypotension after spinal anesthesia. Her symptoms lasted only 40 minutes, yet MRI on the next day revealed DWI and FLAIR hyperintensity in the left posterior temporo-occipital lobe. MRA was unrevealing. Two months later, follow-up MRI showed complete resolution of the previously noted abnormality. She remained asymptomatic without neurological sequelae. Conclusion: RPLS and transient neurological deficits lasting only minutes in duration may occur shortly after ephedrine use. RPLS due to ephedrine for potential hypotension after cesarean section should be recognized as a potential complication. Subtle vasoconstrictive effects of ephedrine may not be apparent on MRA. Overlap with postpartum angiopathy or reversible cerebral vasoconstrictive syndrome, however, suggests a common vascular pathophysiology that may be discerned with serial MRI. 50.? Evolution of FLAIR Vascular Hyperintensities in Acute Ischemic Stroke Nerses Sanossian1, Qing Hao2, David Liebeskind for the UCLA Collateral Inversigators2?1University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States, 2University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, United States Background: FLAIR vascular hyperintensities (FVH), the relatively subtle serpentine early vessel signs in acute ischemic stroke, are caused by slow retrograde flow from leptomeningeal collaterals. Angiographic correlative studies reveal that FVH are highly specific for collaterals and hypoperfusion, changes in FVH associated with revascularization have not been chronicled. Methods: Retrospective review was conducted of consecutive acute ischemic stroke cases at a single institution with serial FLAIR MRI acquired before and after conventional angiography. FVH characteristics on serial MRI were reviewed in blinded fashion. Angiographic patency and perfusion status was separately graded by TIMI score. Results: 632 stroke cases were reviewed to identify 55 with FLAIR prior to and after angiography. Initial MRI revealed FVH in 46/55 or 84% of cases. FVH was noted on only 18/55 or 33% of follow-up MRI scans. In all cases with FVH on follow-up MRI imaging there was evidence of FVH on the initial scan. In the interventional cohort (n = 33), cases with persistent FVH were discharged with less severe strokes (NIHSS 4 vs. 11, p = 0.04) despite presenting with equally severe strokes (22 vs. 17) and having equal recanalization rates (final TIMI 1.8 vs 1.5). This was due to the higher percentage of partial territory infarction with persistent FVH (75% vs. 50%) rather than complete territory infarction (10% vs. 25%). In non-interventional cases (N = 22) persistence of FVH was also associated with partial territory infarction (90% vs. 23%). Conclusions: Persistence of FVH on post-angiography MRI is associated with partial territory infarction. In cases of complete territory or no infarction, FVH disappear. 51.? Multiple Ischemic Strokes after Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization for Hepatocellular Carcinoma with a Radiographic and Pathologic Correlate Victor Zach1, Beth Rapaport1, Ji Yeoun Yoo1, Lara Goldfeder2, Jesse Weinberger1?1The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States, 2New York City Office of Chief Medical Examiner and Department of Forensic Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States Introduction: Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is a widely used form of therapy in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We report an autopsy case of multiple cerebral emboli during TACE. To our knowledge, this is the first case with pathological data. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 66 year old man with recurrent HCC underwent TACE. Forty-five minutes into the procedure the patient suddenly became unarousable. On examination, the patient was nonverbal, opened his eyes to voice, and did not follow commands. Right gaze preference, right facial weakness, but otherwise normal brainstem reflexes were present. He localized to noxious stimuli. Ankle clonus was present bilaterally. His fingers and left foot were cold and cyanotic. Results: Diffusion weighted imaging of the brain revealed innumerable punctate areas of restricted diffusion throughout both cerebral hemispheres and cerebellum reflecting small infarcts that appeared embolic. Transesophageal echocardiography and emboli detection transcranial dopplers did not demonstrate a shunt. An abdominal CT revealed bibasilar atelectasis. No significant improvement occurred after 6 weeks. On autopsy multiple microscopic subacute infarcts were found in the cerebrum, midbrain and cerebellum, but no embolic material was seen. Embolic material was noted in dilated vessels throughout the fibrotic right diaphragm and in the upper lobe of the right lung. Conclusion: Cerebral embolism after TACE of HCC is rare, yet devastating. Our patient's post-TACE abdominal CT revealed bibasilar atelectasis masking a pathologically proven hepato-pulmonary shunt. We suggest careful evaluation for invasion of HCC into the thoracic cavity prior to TACE. 52.? Fibromuscular Dysplasia Presenting as a Common Carotid Artery Dissection Resulting in Multiple Ischemic Infarcts: Neurosonographic Diagnosis with Angiographic Correlate Victor Zach, Svetlana Zhovtis, Kathryn Kirchoff, Jesse Weinberger The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States Introduction: Common carotid artery (CCA) dissection is a rare cause of ischemic stroke. We describe a case of multiple acute infarcts in a patient with CCA dissection, detected initially by carotid duplex (CD.) Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 50 year-old Caucasian female with a history of classic migraine developed a rapidly expanding visual aura evolving into an inability to see on her right side, left cervicooccipital pain, and an inability to speak, lasting for 45 minutes. On arrival, the patient was asymptomatic. Her mood was labile, cycling rapidly between inappropriate laughter and inappropriate crying. Object recall was impaired. She had no focal neurological deficits. Results: An urgent CD revealed a circular area of dissection in the distal CCA with some mobility of the dense circular rim of the thrombus and a lucent core. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple foci of acute infarction in the left anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral artery distributions, and a carotid (i.e. fetal) origin of the left posterior cerebral artery. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the neck with gadolinium demonstrated the CCA dissection. Full anticoagulation was started. Conventional angiography confirmed the CCA dissection and was suggestive of fibromuscular dysplasia. At one month follow up she remained asymptomatic. On repeat CD there was a 3.5 mm area of distal CCA dissection with resolution of the circular thrombus. Conclusion: CCA dissection is rare but must be recognized by CD. Axial images are necessary in patients where dissection is suspected to make a definitive diagnosis. 53.? Extra Cranial Carotid Artery Disease in Egypt Foad Abd Allah, Essam Baligh 1Cairo University-Neurology Department, Cairo, Egypt, 2Cairo University-Cardiovascular Medicine Department, Cairo, Egypt Background and Purpose: The prevalence of carotid artery stenosis has been studied in several cohorts and cross-sectional studies of populations. Prevalence estimates are mostly based on ultrasound studies, because duplex ultrasound is accurate, reproducible, and inexpensive to diagnose and follow patients with arterial disorders. The purpose of our study is to describe the pattern of a large sample of Egyptians. Methods: We analyzed the data of 4733 Egyptian subjects who underwent extracranial carotid duplex scanning at the vascular laboratories of two large tertiary referral hospitals in Cairo from 1.2.2003 to 1.2.2008. Demographic and clinical data and cause of referral were correlated with ultrasound findings. Results: Atherosclerotic carotid artery disease was present in 40.9% of the study population: Intimal thickening and less than 50% stenosis in 38.34%, 50?69% internal carotid artery stenosis in 1.9%, ≥ 70% stenosis in 0.6% and occlusion in 0.06%. Non-atherosclerotic disease was detected in 9 subjects (0.19%) only. Multivariate stepwise logistic regression analysis selected age, hypertension and diabetes mellitus as independent predictors of the presence of carotid atherosclerotic disease. Conclusion: Hemodynamically significant and clinically relevant extracranial atherosclerotic carotid disease is rare in Egyptians. Risk factors for carotid atherosclerosis are the same as in societies where carotid disease is more prevalent. 54.? Cerebral Blood Flow Velocity Measurement in Children at Risk for Hypoxic-Ischemic Brain Injury: Preliminary Results Michele Merat2, Audrey Shibata1, Jamie Hutchison1, Anne-Marie Guerguerian1?1Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, 2University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland Objectives: To characterize the relationship between cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV), physiologic variables, and outcome in children at risk for hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury. Methods: Prospective cohort study of children following cardiopulmonary arrests and return of spontaneous circulation, or cardiac and/or respiratory failure supported by extra-corporeal mechanical oxygenation (ECMO), associated with coma. Utstein methods were used for definitions. CBFV measured with transcranial Doppler sonography, cerebral oxygen saturation (ScO2) with near infrared spectroscopy, and systemic physiologic variables were measured daily up to 6 days during stable hemodynamic conditions until extubation, decannulation from ECMO, or death. Pediatric Cerebral Performance Category (PCPC) was assessed at 3 and 6 months. Longitudinal data analyses for repeated measures were used to model the relationship between CBFV and physiologic variables. Results: Nineteen comatose subjects were enrolled after informed consent process, aged between 7 days to 17 years. Among subjects supported by ECMO, change in CBFV was associated with flow in ml/min, time after injury and PaO2. CBFV was not independently associated with mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), hematocrit, and PaCO2. ScO2 was associated with MABP and ECMO flow. Probability of survival was not statistically associated with CBFV however a trend for increased or maintained CBFV is shown in the current sample. Conclusions: These preliminary data suggest that the study is feasible. More importantly these data are needed given that the relationship between CBFV and physiologic variables reported (or expected) in healthy children is not immediately found in children with coma following events associated with severe risk for HI brain injury. These preliminary results need to be examined further, for longer periods of time, and focusing on measuring the integrity of cerebral autoregulation. 55.? Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Flow Across the Aqueduct of Sylvius (AS) in Neonates is Induced by Respiration Paul Maertens, Shannon Overs, Daniel Dees, Zachary Funk, Lee Vick University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, United States Introduction: In adults, it is currently accepted that cardiac cycle-related variations in cerebral blood volume produce bidirectional oscillatory movement of CSF within AS. To assess if this is also true in neonates we investigated the Doppler spectral waveform of CSF flowing across AS and analyzed its temporal relation to the cardiac cycle and respiration. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Seven neonates with grade 2 IVHs were first shown to have a flow signal in AS using power Doppler imaging through the anterior and posterior fontanelles using a Phillips 5500. Subsequently, using duplex imaging, Doppler spectral waveform of CSF was displayed simultaneously with EKG tracing and temporal relation to respiration was analyzed using the flow?time display on Dräger ventilators. Results: Doppler spectral waveform of CSF in AS was bidirectional in all neonates. The flow direction of CSF was not affected by cardiac cycle. Instead flow direction of CSF correlated directly with the flow of air in the upper airways during respiration. During inspiration, there was a short caudocranial movement of CSF which was followed by a longer craniocaudal movement of CSF during expiration. Conclusion: In neonates with IVHs, duplex imaging can provide real time information about CSF flow. The bidirectional oscillatory movements of CSF within AS are produced by variations in the cerebral blood volume during the respiratory cycle. During inspiration, the net inflow of blood increases the intracranial volume and produces craniocaudal CSF flow. During expiration, the net outflow of blood decreases the intracranial volume and promotes caudocranial flow. TCD Sensitivity (%) Specificity (%) PPV (%) P value bMCA MFV≥120 66.7 86.4 47.1 <0.001 mMCA MFV≥120 83.3 63.3 22.7 ??0.003 Preangio MFV≥150 91.7 85.3 42.3 <0.001 aMCA-bMCA ratio ≥1.5 91.7 60.3 27.5 ??0.001 aMCA-cMCA ratio ≥1.25 75? 55.6 14.8 ??0.042 aMCA-iACA ratio≥2 36.4 66.3 12.1 ?0.55 aMCA-iPCA ratio≥2.5 90?? 31.1 13.5 ?0.58 aMCA Lindegaard ratio 91?? 69?? 31.2 <0.001 56.? Derivation of Transcranial Doppler criteria for Angiographically proven Middle Cerebral Artery vasospasm after Aneurysmal Subarachnoid hemorrhage Joseph Sebastian, Carol Derksen, Khurshid Khan, Bilal Hameed, Mohammad Ibrahim, Muzaffar Siddiqui, Ashfaq Shuaib, Maher Saqqur University of Alberta, Edmonton,Alberta, Canada Introduction: Transcranial Doppler (TCD) has been subjected to many criticisms for its ability to detect impending vasospasm. The purpose of this study is to derive a new criteria of middle cerebral artery (MCA) vasospasm (VSP) based on correlation between TCD and MCA vasospasm after aneurysmal SAH. Patients and Methods: A prospective collected data of 134 patients with aneurysmal SAH admitted to University of Alberta hospital from January 2006 to December 2008. Complete TCD was performed daily from day 2 to 14 from symptoms onset. Follow up DSA was done at day 7 to 9 from symptom's onset. TCD mean flow velocity (MFV) of all vessels at baseline, middle and before DSA were measured.The following MCA ratios were calculated: Affected MCA MFV/ baseline MCA MFV ratio (aMCA/ bMCA ratio), aMCA/ contralateral (c) MCA MFV ratio, aMCA/ ipsilateral (i)ACA MFVratio,aMCA/ iPCA MFV ratio, and aMCA Lindegaard ratio. DSA VSP was defined as > 1/3 luminal narrowing. Univariate and multiple variate analysis were used. Results: Results are preliminary and final results will be notified later. Based on the above ratios, an algorithmic TCD analysis for MCA VSP will be developed. Conclusion: Stringent criteria for MCA VSP based TCD velocities are feasible and applicable in SAH population. ECHO SAV V-V E/A Ao (VTI) M(VTI) Baseline 180 LV 40 1.3 12.2 12.9 150 1.8 15.6 210 1.8 15.9 200 LV 40 1.6 13.0 15.0 Final 200 LV 20 13.0 TCD PAV Range of flow V-V ? Baseline 200 105?111 0 90?106 100 101?113 LV 10 104?113 150 101?110 LV 20 104?111 160 107?111 LV 30 104?111 180 105?115 LV 50 100?109 57.? Usefulness of TCD as a Diagnostic Tool to Evaluate Intracranial Hemodynamic Status: Five Years Experience Methil Pradeep, Sowntharya Yashoda, Mazharudeen Mohammed KG Hospital  RMCA PSV 83, EDV 23, MV37, RI 0.72, PI 1.62. Autonomic failure ensued, sedatives were tapered;burst suppression persisted on EEG. Follow up TCDs (pCO2 43.4, MAP 71) showed LMCA PSV 181, EDV 39, MV 70, RI 0.78, PI 2.03; RMCA PSV 161, EDV 39.5, MV 65, RI 0.75, PI 1.87 .CTangiogram showed effacement of sulci but no vasospasm; opening pressure 41 cm on lumbar puncture. Next TCD (pCO2 54.3, MAP 69) showed LMCA PSV141, EDV 37.6, MV 70.1, RI 0.73, PI 1.48; RMCA PSV 114, EDV 32, MV 55.3, RI 0.72, PI 1.48. Patient then developed acute renal failure, severe acidosis, hypotension refractory to vasopressors and transtentorial herniation. Patient expired on Day 8 of hospitalization. Steadily increasing velocities & indices in this patient represented increasing cerebral edema with no vasospasm on CTA. PI/RI represent increase in peripheral vascular resistance & correlate well (r = 0.99). Increased intracranial pressures in this case may have been side effect of therapy or be part of natural history of rabies adding to spectrum of Doppler findings in this rare disease. 61.? The Progression of Middle Cerebral Artery Velocities on Transcranial Doppler in Children with Sickle Cell Disease Barbara Voetsch1, Feliks Koyfman1, Haroot Artinian1, Philippa Sprinz2, Karla Fuentes2, Pikula Aleksandra1, Michael Winter3, Christopher Kelly1, Michael Murray1, Matthew Ogrodnik1, Viken Babikian1?1Department of Neurology ? Boston Medical Center, Boston, United States, 2Department of Pediatrics ? Boston Medical Center, Boston, United States, 3Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, United States Introduction: Sickle cell disease (SCD) carries a high risk of stroke in children. Based on the STOP trial, transcranial Doppler (TCD) is recommended to identify children with increased stroke risk, defined sonologically as mean middle cerebral artery velocity (MCAv) ≥200 cm/sec. However, the rate of disease progression as measured by TCD and the effect of therapeutic interventions on its values has not been extensively studied. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: We performed a retrospective study of 79 children with homozygous SCD (53.2%M; age at first TCD: 7.4±4.1 yrs; 86.1% African-American) followed at Boston Medical Center's Pediatric Hematology program from 2004?2008. Treatment with hydroxyurea and/or exchange transfusion was initiated as clinically indicated. Serial TCDs were performed, and mean MCAv change over time was analyzed by linear regression. Results: All children had at least 2 TCD studies (53%: 3 studies; 32%: ≥ 4 studies). The average MCAv on first study was 134.1±27 cm/sec (reference for unaffected children: 80±15 cm/sec). Four children had MCAv ≥200 cm/sec on first TCD, two of which improved with transfusions. Three children (4%) with non-critical values initially, progressed to MCAv≥200 cm/sec. Overall, there was a non-significant increase in MCAv to 153.2±39.9 cm/sec (p = 0.22). In treatment-stratified analyses, the rate of progression of MCAv also did not change significantly. Conclusions: Although MCAvs did not change significantly overall, 4% of children developed critical levels. Determinants of this progression remain unclear. Further studies are required to better understand the natural history of the disease and the rate of MCAv change on TCD. 62.? Reversible Congestive Venous Myelopathy due to Spinal Dural Arterio-venous Fistula Munish Goyal, Aarti Sarwal, Mason Cummins, Niranjan Singh University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States Introduction: Dural vascular malformations compose 3?4% of spinal cord masses. These are often not considered in differential diagnosis of progressive myelopathy. We present a case of reversible venous congestive myelopathy due to spinal dural arterio-venous fistula (DAVF). Results: 64-year-old male with chronic low back pain presented with 3-month history of relapsing remitting weakness of both lower extremities. MRI lumbosacral spine and CT myelogram showed changes of previous lumbar diskectomy and scoliosis. He developed acute right sciatic pain, deteriorating asymmetric paraparesis with bladder retention. Examination showed areflexic paraplegia, extensor plantars, T10 sensory level, absent cremasteric and anal reflex with disability grade, Aminoff  prominent intradural extramedullary veins suggesting DAVF. Patient was given intravenous methylprednisone and transferred to another facility for spinal angiogram which showed spinal DAVF at right L4 with intradural vein draining into spinal canal upto mid-thoracic level. Transarterial embolization was performed with no residual DAVF on follow up. He started improving immediately after embolization. He was discharged to rehabilitation where he continued to improve, regained bladder function and ability to walk with walker. Conclusion: This case illustrates rare natural history of spinal DAVF with relapsing remitting subacute course. Most literature reports poor outcomes in patients with DAVF with high Aminoff and Logue score and late intervention. Our patient showed significant improvement despite high disability score suggesting that myelopathy in spinal DAVF is caused by reversible venous congestion hence AVF should be treated aggressively regardless of presentation. 63.? Neuroimaging in Children with Tongue Fasciculations Izabela Koper-Skladaniec, Paul Maertens, Jennifer Currie, Sherryl Falkos, Rosa Vidal University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, United States Introduction: Bilateral tongue fasciculations are a hallmark of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). The onset is usually subacute with bilateral fasciculations and atrophy. The vast majority of acute unilateral tongue fasciculations are due to idiopathic hypoglossal nerve palsies (HNP) that resolve spontaneously without atrophy. Neuroimaging findings in pediatric patients presenting with tongue fasciculations due to other causes than SMA and HNP have not been systematically reviewed. Materials and Methods: Records of all children presenting to our hospital with tongues fasciculation between 2004 and 2009 were reviewed. Ten patients between 15 years of age and early infancy were identified. Mean age of our population was 2.1 years old. None of these patients had SMA or HNP. Brain MRI, CT scan and/or ultrasound were done in 7, 8 and 4 patients respectively. Results: Neuroimaging studies were abnormal in all except one neonate with diagnosis of congenital hypoplasia of left hypoglossal nucleus. In three neonates with diagnosis of Möbius syndrome, cranial ultrasound and CT scan showed brainstem calcifications. In one neonate with spinocerebellar degeneration, CT scan and ultrasound showed progressive spinocerebellar atrophy. In two infants with spinocerebellar ataxia type 7, CT scan and MRI showed cerebellar atrophy. In one infant, MRI showed syringobulbia. In one older child with acute demyelinating rhombencephalitis, MRI showed abnormal signal in medulla. In a teenager with acute brainstem infarction, CT and MRI showed basilar artery thrombosis. Conclusion: We conclude that neuroimaging is extremely useful in distinguishing various etiologies of tongue fasciculations. Abstract 64 is intentionally omitted. 65.? Venous Collaterals and Perfusion in Acute-on-Chronic Cerebral Venous Thrombosis Qing Hao, Neal Rao, Suman Kalanithi, David Liebeskind UCLA Stroke Center, Los Angeles, United States Introduction: The depiction of cerebral venous thrombosis, associated venous congestion and collaterals have been revolutionized by the advent of multimodal CT/MRI. Thrombolysis is often pursued in extensive thromboses as in the superior sagittal sinus (SSS), yet parenchymal lesions and capacity of myriad venous collateral outflow routes are drawing increasing attention beyond delineation of thrombosis itself. Methods: Case report of acute-on-chronic previously undiagnosed SSS thrombosis. Results: A 61-year old man suffered from acute onset of severe headache and CT was performed without any diagnosis established or treatment initiated. The headache waxed and waned, particularly exacerbated by dependent head position. Intermittent, severe bouts of headache occurred every 1?2 months for 1 year until they became constant for 2 weeks before culminating with a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. MRI revealed FLAIR hyperintensity in the left fronto-parietal region and petechial hemorrhage in the right caudate nucleus. DWI did not demonstrate ischemia yet perfusion images displayed bilateral centrum semiovale lesions. MRV, CTV, and conventional angiography all showed extensive SSS with marked diminution of bilateral transverse sinuses and prominent venous collaterals. Review of the original CT from 1 year earlier showed the right caudate lesion and hyperdensity throughout the SSS. Anticoagulation was started in the ICU, yet potential thrombolysis was never needed and he was discharged without neurological sequelae. Conclusion: Extensive thrombosis in the SSS and transverse sinuses may cause isolated headache due to acute-on-chronic venous congestion. Venous collaterals and not necessarily clot extent may be critical neuroimaging features to consider in management of cerebral venous thrombosis. 66.? Changes of Cerebral Glucose Metabolism in Subcortical Aphasia after Hemorrhagic Stroke Yong Wook Kim, Ji Hoon Jang, Yu Hee Won Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea, Republic of Objective: The functions of subcortical structures in language are still controversial, but the several roles that basal ganglia and thalamus are essential components of the brain networks have been suggested. Subcortical hemorrhagic stroke in dominant hemisphere has known to induce aphasia by structural disconnection or by compressive ischemia among language related cortical structure. But, the functional neuroimaging researches which wish to clarify the relationship between subcortical aphasia and secondary cortical dysfunction are limited. The aim of this study was to investigate the changes of cerebral cortical metabolism in subcortical aphasia after hemorrhagic stroke in dominant hemisphsere and assess the relationship between the severity of subcortical aphasia and the associated cortical dysfunction using brain positron emission tomography (PET). Subjects and Methods: 16 right handed patients (10 men, 6 women; mean age, 52.4 years with range, 36?79 years; mean duration from onset to study, 4.1 month with range 1?7.5 momths) with left subcortical hemorrhage, who spoke Korean as their first language, were enrolled in this study. All patients underwent an aphasia evaluation using the Korean version of the Western Aphasia Battery (K-WAB). The severity of aphasia was evaluated by calculating the aphasia quotient (AQ) for each patient by summing the score of the 4 subtests. Measurement of cerebral glucose metabolism using Brain 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG PET) was performed in the control and the all patients. Statistical analysis of PET images in the control and all patients were performed using statistical parametric mapping software (SPM2, Institute of Neurology, University College London, UK) by a voxel-by-voxel basis using two sample t-test. Additionally, the correlation between the changes of cerebral glucose metabolism and the AQ was assessed using a single-subject covariate model. Results: SPM analysis of 18F-FDG PET images showed that significantly decreased cerebral glucose metabolism in the subcortical aphasic patients, compared to the healthy control, was in the left superior frontal gyrus, the middle frontal gyrus, the left inferior parietal gyrus and the right cerebellar cortex (Pcorrectecd < 0.005). In contrast, the right inferior frontal gyrus, the right middle temporal gyrus, the right inferior temporal gyrus, the right hippocampal gyrus, the right postcentral and the right supramarginal gyrus, the right supplementary motor area and the left cerebellum (Pcorrectecd < 0.005). In voxel-based SPM correlation analysis between the changes of cerebral glucose metabolism and the AQ of each patients, the most significant positive correlations were observed in the both rectal gyri and the right hippocampal and parahippocampal gyri (Puncorrectecd < 0.01). Conclusion: Subcortical aphasia after hemorrhagic stroke showed increased metabolism in the non-dominant hemisphere that is a homologue of expressive and comprehensive area in dominant hemisphere and showed cerebral metabolic correlation with neural networking cortex which is involved in semantic fluency and memory. These findings may support the understanding of mechanism for language recovery. 67.? Cerebral Metabolic Patterns in Permanent Vegetative State after Acquired Brain Injury Yong Wook Kim, Ji Hoon Jang, Mi Hee Park Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea, Republic of Objectives: Vegetative state is defined as preservation of spontaneous eye opening, sleep wake cycle, but there is complete absence of behavioral evidence for awareness of self and environment. Particularly, permanent vegetative state exhibit sustained impaired level of consciousness longer than 12 months in traumatic causes and 3 months in non-traumatic causes of brain injury. Even though there were many studies to assess cerebral metabolic patterns in acute and persistent vegetative state, researches for cerebral metabolic patterns in permanent vegetative state there were limited. For that reason, we evaluated the changes of cerebral glucose metabolism in permanent vegetative state after acquired brain injury in this study. Subjects and Methods: 12 patients with permanent vegetative state in level of consciousness were consecutively enrolled in this study. Three patients were caused by traumatic brain injury, nine patients by non-traumatic brain injury. We measured the level of consciousness by JFK-Coma Recovery Scale (JFK-CRS), and evaluated cerebral glucose metabolism by positron emission tomography scanner (GE. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA). Statistical analysis of cerebral metabolism in permanent vegetative state was performed by statistical parametric mapping software (SPM2, Institute of Neurology, University College London, UK) comparing to 12 normal controls and correlation analysis between cerebral metabolism and level of consciousness state measured by JFK-CRS was evaluated by single-to-single covariate analysis in SPM2. Results: 1. SPM analysis showed that significantly decreased cerebral glucose metabolism in permanent vegetative state was in the left precuneus, both middle cingulum, both thalamus, the left superior parietal and the left occipital cortices, the right middle and the right inferior frontal cortices compared to normal controls (Pcorrected < 0.005). 2. Statistically significant Increase of cerebral metabolism in permanent vegetative state was in both cerebellum, the right supramarginal and the left inferior temporal cortices (Pcorrected < 0.005). 3. In correlation analysis between changes of cerebral glucose metabolism and level of consciousness measured by JFK-CRS, improved level of consciousness was significantly associated with increased metabolism in both middle cingulum (Puncorrected < 0.005). Conclusions: Our findings suggested that permanent vegetative state after acquired brain injury showed significant decrease of diffuse cerebral metabolism in the neural network of consciousness, which could be helpful to study for neural mechanism for consciousness recovery. 68.? Preserved GABA-A Binding on 11C-flumazenil Positron Emission Tomography in Alzheimer Disease Belen Pascual1, Elena Prieto3, Josep M. Marti-Climent3, Javier Arbizu3, Jose C. Masdeu2?1Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States, 2Section in Integrative Neuroimaging, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States, 3Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Navarra Medical School, Pamplona, Navarra, Spain Introduction:[11C]flumazenil is a specific positron emission tomography (PET) tracer for the GABA-A receptor, abundant in the medial temporal lobe, an early target of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. [11C]flumazenil PET has been reported to be more sensitive and specific than diffusion-weighted MRI for the detection of neuronal loss in stroke. We conducted a pilot study to evaluate the potential of flumazenil imaging to detect neuronal loss in AD. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Eight AD patients and 9 matched healthy controls were studied. Mean Mini-Mental Examination score for the AD patients was 20.57 (SD, 4.67). An arterial input function was applied to derive both the total tissue distribution volume and the binding potential of flumazenil, using the graphic plot method of Logan (2001). The distribution volume of flumazenil was analyzed using both regions-of-interest (ROIs) and voxel-based analysis methods (SPM). Results: We did not find significant differences in GABA-A receptor density between AD patients and healthy controls. The presence of dementia was not associated with a reduced distribution volume of flumazenil. Conclusion: 11C-flumazenil PET demonstrates no apparent loss of GABA-A receptor density in early Alzheimer disease. 69.? FDG-PET Changes in Brain Glucose Metabolism in Patients with White Matter Disease with and without Dementia: Differentiation from Alzheimer Disease Belen Pascual1, Elena Prieto3, Josep M. Marti-Climent3, Javier Arbizu3, Jose C. Masdeu2?1Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States, 2Section in Integrative Neuroimaging, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States, 3Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Navarra Medical School, Pamplona, Navarra, Spain Introduction: The boundary between vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) continues to be unclear. Some posit that progressive vascular dementia, as with small-vessel disease, is simply vascular brain disease plus AD. As AD presents a characteristic pattern on fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) PET, we sought to determine whether the FDG pattern of vascular dementia resembled more AD or the pattern in patients with severe microvascular disease but no dementia. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Vascular disease patients were selected on the basis of confluent white matter lesions on both hemispheres. Among them, with a similar degree of vascular disease on MRI, neuropsychological testing separated groups with dementia (WMD-D, N = 8) and without dementia (WMD-nD, N = 9). In addition, 8 patients with AD, and 9 healthy controls were studied. Groups were matched by age, sex and education level. FDG distribution was analyzed using voxel-based analysis methods (SPM). Results: The AD group showed the characteristic pattern of bilateral hypometabolism in temporo-parietal association cortex and cuneus. By contrast, patients with vascular dementia had a similar pattern to the vascular patients without dementia. However, a comparison between the two groups of vascular patients showed a greater decrease in frontal metabolism in the demented patients, a pattern quite distinct from the metabolic pattern of AD. Conclusion: FDG- PET seems to suggest that, at least in some instances of vascular dementia, the metabolic abnormality defining the presence of dementia involves the frontal lobe, a pattern quite different from AD and concordant with the neuropsychological findings of impaired executive function characteristic of vascular dementia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lyden, Patrick
AU  - Pryor, Kent E.
AU  - Coffey, Christopher S.
AU  - Cudkowicz, Merit
AU  - Conwit, Robin
AU  - Jadhav, Ashutosh
AU  - Sawyer Jr, Robert N.
AU  - Claassen, Jan
AU  - Adeoye, Opeolu
AU  - Song, Shlee
AU  - Hannon, Peter
AU  - Rost, Natalia S.
AU  - Hinduja, Archana
AU  - Torbey, Michel
AU  - Lee, Jin-Moo
AU  - Benesch, Curtis
AU  - Rippee, Michael
AU  - Rymer, Marilyn
AU  - Froehler, Michael T.
AU  - Clarke Haley, E.
AU  - Johnson, Mark
AU  - Yankey, Jon
AU  - Magee, Kim
AU  - Qidwai, Julie
AU  - Levy, Howard
AU  - Mark Haacke, E.
AU  - Fawaz, Miller
AU  - Davis, Thomas P.
AU  - Toga, Arthur W.
AU  - Griffin, John H.
AU  - Zlokovic, Berislav V.
AU  - the NeuroNEXT Clinical Trials Network NN104 Investigators
TI  - Final Results of the RHAPSODY Trial: A Multi-Center, Phase 2 Trial Using a Continual Reassessment Method to Determine the Safety and Tolerability of 3K3A-APC, A Recombinant Variant of Human Activated Protein C, in Combination with Tissue Plasminogen Activator, Mechanical Thrombectomy or both in Moderate to Severe Acute Ischemic Stroke
JO  - Annals of Neurology
JA  - Ann Neurol
VL  - 85
IS  - 1
SN  - 0364-5134
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ana.25383
DO  - doi:10.1002/ana.25383
SP  - 125
EP  - 136
PY  - 2019
AB  - Objective Agonism of protease-activated receptor (PAR) 1 by activated protein C (APC) provides neuro- and vasculoprotection in experimental neuroinjury models. The pleiotropic PAR1 agonist, 3K3A-APC, reduces neurological injury and promotes vascular integrity; 3K3A-APC proved safe in human volunteers. We performed a randomized, controlled, blinded trial to determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of 3K3A-APC in ischemic stroke patients. Methods The NeuroNEXT trial, RHAPSODY, used a novel continual reassessment method to determine the MTD using tiers of 120, 240, 360, and 540 ?g/kg of 3K3A-APC. After intravenous tissue plasminogen activator, intra-arterial mechanical thrombectomy, or both, patients were randomized to 1 of the 4 doses or placebo. Vasculoprotection was assessed as microbleed and intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) rates. Results Between January 2015 and July 2017, we treated 110 patients. Demographics resembled a typical stroke population. The MTD was the highest-dose 3K3A-APC tested, 540 ?g/kg, with an estimated toxicity rate of 7%. There was no difference in prespecified ICH rates. In exploratory analyses, 3K3A-APC reduced ICH rates compared to placebo from 86.5% to 67.4% in the combined treatment arms (p = 0.046) and total hemorrhage volume from an average of 2.1 ± 5.8 ml in placebo to 0.8 ± 2.1 ml in the combined treatment arms (p = 0.066). Interpretation RHAPSODY is the first trial of a neuroprotectant for acute ischemic stroke in a trial design allowing thrombectomy, thrombolysis, or both. The MTD was 540 ?g/kg for the PAR1 active cytoprotectant, 3K3A-APC. A trend toward lower hemorrhage rate in an exploratory analysis requires confirmation. Clinical Trial Registration Clinical Trial Registration-URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT02222714. ANN NEUROL 2019;85:125?136.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kataria, Hardeep
AU  - Alizadeh, Arsalan
AU  - Shahriary, Ghazaleh M.
AU  - Saboktakin Rizi, Shekoofeh
AU  - Henrie, Ryan
AU  - Santhosh, Kallivalappil T.
AU  - Thliveris, James A.
AU  - Karimi-Abdolrezaee, Soheila
TI  - Neuregulin-1 promotes remyelination and fosters a pro-regenerative inflammatory response in focal demyelinating lesions of the spinal cord
JO  - Glia
JA  - Glia
VL  - 66
IS  - 3
SN  - 0894-1491
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/glia.23264
DO  - doi:10.1002/glia.23264
SP  - 538
EP  - 561
KW  - IL-10
KW  - lysolecithin demyelination
KW  - neuregulin-1
KW  - neural precursor cells
KW  - oligodendrogenesis
KW  - remyelination
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Oligodendroglial cell death and demyelination are hallmarks of neurotrauma and multiple sclerosis that cause axonal damage and functional impairments. Remyelination remains a challenge as the ability of endogenous precursor cells for oligodendrocyte replacement is hindered in the unfavorable milieu of demyelinating conditions. Here, in a rat model of lysolecithin lysophosphatidyl-choline (LPC)-induced focal demyelination, we report that Neuregulin-1 (Nrg-1), an important factor for oligodendrocytes and myelination, is dysregulated in demyelinating lesions and its bio-availability can promote oligodendrogenesis and remyelination. We delivered recombinant human Nrg-1?1 (rhNrg-1?1) intraspinally in the vicinity of LPC demyelinating lesion in a sustained manner using poly lactic-co-glycolic acid microcarriers. Availability of Nrg-1 promoted generation and maturation of new oligodendrocytes, and accelerated endogenous remyelination by both oligodendrocyte and Schwann cell populations in demyelinating foci. Importantly, Nrg-1 enhanced myelin thickness in newly remyelinated spinal cord axons. Our complementary in vitro studies also provided direct evidence that Nrg-1 significantly promotes maturation of new oligodendrocytes and facilitates their transition to a myelinating phenotype. Nrg-1 therapy remarkably attenuated the upregulated expression chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) specific glycosaminoglycans in the extracellular matrix of demyelinating foci and promoted interleukin-10 (IL-10) production by immune cells. CSPGs and IL-10 are known to negatively and positively regulate remyelination, respectively. We found that Nrg-1 effects are mediated through ErbB2 and ErbB4 receptor activation. Our work provides novel evidence that dysregulated levels of Nrg-1 in demyelinating lesions of the spinal cord pose a challenge to endogenous remyelination, and appear to be an underlying cause of myelin thinning in newly remyelinated axons.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Saturday 21 October 2017
JO  - Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Oncology
JA  - J Med Imaging Radiat Oncol
VL  - 61
IS  - S1
SN  - 1754-9477
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1754-9485.2_12656
DO  - doi:10.1111/1754-9485.2_12656
SP  - 71
EP  - 125
PY  - 2017
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - American Society for Laser Medicine and Surgery Twenty-Ninth Annual Conference April 1–5, 2009 Abstracts
JO  - Lasers in Surgery and Medicine
JA  - Lasers Surg. Med.
VL  - 41
IS  - S21
SN  - 0196-8092
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/lsm.20783
DO  - doi:10.1002/lsm.20783
SP  - 1
EP  - 154
PY  - 2009
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Poster session 1
JO  - European Journal of Neurology
VL  - 14
IS  - s1
SN  - 1351-5101
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-1331.2007.01936.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1468-1331.2007.01936.x
SP  - 32
EP  - 163
PY  - 2007
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Educational Exhibit
JO  - Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Oncology
JA  - Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Oncology
VL  - 59
IS  - S1
SN  - 1754-9477
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1754-9485.12400
DO  - doi:10.1111/1754-9485.12400
SP  - 166
EP  - 206
PY  - 2015
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Poster Session 1
JO  - European Journal of Neurology
VL  - 13
IS  - s2
SN  - 1351-5101
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-1331.2006.01621.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1468-1331.2006.01621.x
SP  - 42
EP  - 168
PY  - 2006
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - The New Zealand Emergency Medicine Network and The Shorter Stays in Emergency Department National Research Project Group
TI  - National audit of the quality of pain relief provided in emergency departments in Aotearoa, New Zealand: The PRiZED 1 Study
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 29
IS  - 2
SN  - 1742-6731
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.12714
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.12714
SP  - 165
EP  - 172
KW  - analgesia
KW  - emergency department
KW  - pain
KW  - quality
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Objective Pain is a common feature of ED presentations and the timely provision of adequate analgesia is important for patient care. However, there is currently no New Zealand data with respect to this indicator of care quality. The present study aimed to provide a baseline for the quality of care with respect to the provision of timely and adequate analgesia in New Zealand EDs. Methods The present study is a secondary analysis of data initially collected for the Shorter Stays in Emergency Department Study, using a retrospective chart review of 1685 randomly selected ED presentations (2006?2012) from 26 New Zealand public hospital EDs. Results Of the 1685 charts randomly selected, 1547 (91%) were reviewed from 21 EDs. There were 866 ED presentations with painful conditions, of whom 132 (15%) did not have pain recorded, 205 (24%) did not receive pain relief and 19 (2%) did not have time of analgesia documented leaving 510 (59%) for the analysis of time to analgesia. Four hundred and fifty-seven (53%) did not have pain well documented sufficiently to assess adequacy, leaving 277 (32%) for the analysis of adequacy of analgesia. The median (interquartile range) time to analgesia was 62 (30?134)?min and the provision of adequate analgesia was 141/277 (51%, 95% CI: 45?57%); however, there was some variation between hospitals for both outcomes. Conclusion Although these outcomes are on a par with other countries, this baseline audit has shown both poor documentation and variation in the provision of timely and adequate pain relief in New Zealand EDs, with room for improvement with respect to this quality indicator.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - P01. Posters 1
JO  - Australasian Journal of Dermatology
VL  - 38
IS  - S2
SN  - 0004-8380
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajd.1997.38.s2.77
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajd.1997.38.s2.77
SP  - 77
EP  - 124
PY  - 1997
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Preston, Graeme
AU  - Kirdar, Faisal
AU  - Kozicz, Tamas
TI  - The role of suboptimal mitochondrial function in vulnerability to post-traumatic stress disorder
JO  - Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
JA  - J Inherit Metab Dis
VL  - 41
IS  - 4
SN  - 0141-8955
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1007/s10545-018-0168-1
DO  - doi:10.1007/s10545-018-0168-1
SP  - 585
EP  - 596
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Post-traumatic stress disorder remains the most significant psychiatric condition associated with exposure to a traumatic event, though rates of traumatic event exposure far outstrip incidence of PTSD. Mitochondrial dysfunction and suboptimal mitochondrial function have been increasingly implicated in several psychopathologies, and recent genetic studies have similarly suggested a pathogenic role of mitochondria in PTSD. Mitochondria play a central role in several physiologic processes underlying PTSD symptomatology, including abnormal fear learning, brain network activation, synaptic plasticity, steroidogenesis, and inflammation. Here we outline several potential mechanisms by which inherited (genetic) or acquired (environmental) mitochondrial dysfunction or suboptimal mitochondrial function, may contribute to PTSD symptomatology and increase susceptibility to PTSD. The proposed pathogenic role of mitochondria in the pathophysiology of PTSD has important implications for prevention and therapy, as antidepressants commonly prescribed for patients with PTSD have been shown to inhibit mitochondrial function, while alternative therapies shown to improve mitochondrial function may prove more efficacious.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Poster Session 1: Abstracts
JO  - International Journal of Stroke
VL  - 1
IS  - s1
SN  - 1747-4930
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1747-4949.2006.00072.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1747-4949.2006.00072.x
SP  - 49
EP  - 108
PY  - 2006
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Poster presentations 1
JO  - Sleep and Biological Rhythms
VL  - 9
IS  - 4
SN  - 1446-9235
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1479-8425.2011.00518.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1479-8425.2011.00518.x
SP  - 254
EP  - 342
PY  - 2011
ER  - 
