
TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

AU  - Tennent-Brown, Brett S.
AU  - Epstein, Kira L.
AU  - Ralston, Sarah L.
C7  - pp. 301-315
TI  - Nutrition
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118704783.ch23
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118704783.ch23
SP  - 301-315
KW  - Blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
KW  - Electrolyte abnormalities and dextrose solutions
KW  - Energy and protein requirements
KW  - Enteral feeding and parenteral nutrition
KW  - Hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia
KW  - Lipids and amino acids
KW  - Nutrition
KW  - Parenteral nutrition formulations
KW  - Total parenteral nutrition (TPN)
KW  - Vitamins and trace minerals
PY  - 2005
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Feeding the Postoperative Colic Patient Long-Term Nutritional Management of the Postcolic Patient References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Warthan, M.L.
AU  - Warthan, M.M.
AU  - Lesher, J.
TI  - Raccoon Heartworm Causing a Leg Mass
JO  - Journal of Cutaneous Pathology
VL  - 32
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320ho.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.0303-6987.2005.320ho.x
SP  - 120
EP  - 120
PY  - 2005
AB  - A 29-year-old man from east texas presented with a 3-month history of a large, isolated, painful subcutaneous nodule on his lower right leg. An excisional biopsy showed zones of necrosis in the epidermis, dermis, and subcutaneous adipose tissue with a neutrophilic infiltrate. The dermis showed a mixed infiltrate with necrotic debris and a non-gravid adult female filarial nematode with a thick, multi-layered cuticle, paired uteri, and an intestine. The histologic features were diagnostic for dirofilaria tenuis, the raccoon heartworm. Dirofilaria tenuis causes heartworm infection in raccoons and infrequently causes human disease. When humans do contract dirofilariasis, the mode of transmission is via a bite from a mosquito infected with dirofilaria larvae. Humans are a dead end host and dirofilaria cannot reproduce in humans, but they do cause various lesions at the site of the mosquito bites. We report a very rare case of human dirofilaria tenuis infection manifesting as a subcutaneous nodule. Dirofilaria tenuis infections are very rare in the U.S., and usually occur in the Southeastern U.S.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Robinson, C. S.
AU  - Robertson, J. T.
AU  - Reed, S. M.
AU  - Pinchbeck, L. R.
TI  - Treatment of a mare for Conidiobolus coronatus infection
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 19
IS  - 8
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/095777307X220452
DO  - doi:10.2746/095777307X220452
SP  - 396
EP  - 403
KW  - horse
KW  - Conidiobolus coronatus
KW  - nasal septum resection
KW  - iodine
PY  - 2007
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Girek, Małgorzata
AU  - Szymański, Paweł
TI  - Phyto-Tacrine Hybrids as Promising Drugs to Treat Alzheimer's Disease
JO  - ChemistrySelect
JA  - ChemistrySelect
VL  - 4
IS  - 19
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201803672
DO  - doi:10.1002/slct.201803672
SP  - 5776
EP  - 5790
KW  - acetylcholinesterase inihbitors
KW  - Alzheimer's disease
KW  - drug design
KW  - phytochemistry
KW  - tacrine
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Alzheimer's disease is an incurable neurodegenerative disease which represents the most common form of dementia. Cognition impairment and memory loss are mostly caused by reduced levels of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Therefore, current drug therapies are based on the cholinergic hypothesis. However, ?-amyloid hypothesis is getting more important in last years. For many years, one of the basic drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease was tacrine, acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Unfortunately, it was withdrawn from the market due to its side effects. To diminish side effects, research has focused on obtaining multi-target-directed ligands, which target numerous disease pathways simultaneously, including those of Alzheimer's disease. The comprehensive review is focused on the outcomes of the studies of phyto-tacrine hybrids. Hybrids can inhibit cholinesterase and ?-amyloid aggregation. Additionally, phyto-hybrids have neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory, hepatoprotective and metal chelating properties. Further research is necessary for the development of hybrids to find a proper therapy for Alzheimer's disease.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kirsch, Stefan
AU  - Augath, Mark
AU  - Seiffge, David
AU  - Schilling, Lothar
AU  - Schad, Lothar R.
TI  - In vivo chlorine-35, sodium-23 and proton magnetic resonance imaging of the rat brain
JO  - NMR in Biomedicine
JA  - NMR Biomed.
VL  - 23
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/nbm.1500
DO  - doi:10.1002/nbm.1500
SP  - 592
EP  - 600
KW  - magnetic resonance imaging
KW  - in vivo
KW  - chlorine
KW  - sodium
KW  - 23Na mri
KW  - 35Cl mri
KW  - chloride
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract In this study we demonstrate the feasibility of combined chlorine-35, sodium-23 and proton magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 9.4?Tesla, and present the first in vivo chlorine-35 images obtained by means of MRI. With the experimental setup used in this study all measurements could be done in one session without changing the setup or moving the subject. The multinuclear measurement requires a total measurement time of 2?h and provides morphological (protons) and physiological (sodium-23, chlorine-35) information in one scanning session. Chlorine-35, sodium-23 and high resolution proton images were acquired from a phantom, a healthy rat and from a rat displaying a focal cerebral infarction. Compared to the healthy tissue a signal enhancement of a factor of 2.2?±?0.2 in the chlorine-35 and a factor of 2.9?±?0.6 in the sodium-23 images is observed in the areas of infarction. Exemplary unlocalized measurement of the in vivo longitudinal and transversal relaxation time of chlorine-35 in a healthy rat showed multi-exponential behaviour. A biexponential fit revealed a fast and a slow relaxing component with T1,a?=?(1.7?±?0.4) ms, T1,b?=?(25.1?±?1.4) ms, amplitudes of A?=?0.26?±?0.02, (1?A)?=?0.74?±?0.02 and T2,a?=?(1.3?±?0.1) ms, T2,b?=?(11.8?±?1.1) ms, A?=?0.64?±?0.02, (1?A)?=?0.36?±?0.02. Combined proton, sodium-23 and chlorine-35 MRI may provide a new approach for non-invasive studies of ionic regulatory processes under physiological and pathological conditions in vivo. Copyright ? 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Adamantos, Sophie
TI  - In search of evidence in small animal emergency medicine - a speciality of its own
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 51
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780813818320
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.2010.00945.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.2010.00945.x
SP  - 240
EP  - 241
PY  - 2010
ER  - 

AU  - O'Dwyer, Louise
C7  - pp. 199-211
TI  - Gas Monitoring
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119277187.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119277187.ch16
SP  - 199-211
KW  - capnogram
KW  - capnography
KW  - end-tidal carbon dioxide
KW  - expiration
KW  - infrared
KW  - mainstream
KW  - sampling
KW  - sidestream
KW  - ventilation
PY  - 2010
AB  - Summary There are multiple aspects to the monitoring of respiratory gases. Gas monitoring provides useful information regarding inspired and expired patient levels, in order to prevent hypoxia and maintain a suitable plane of anesthesia, as well as information regarding the adequacy of ventilation via capnography, which also, indirectly, gives us some information about the patient's circulation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - HIGGINS, A. J.
AU  - LEES, P.
TI  - The acute inflammatory process, arachidonic acid metabolism and the mode of action of anti-inflammatory drugs
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
VL  - 16
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2042-3306.1984.tb01893.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.2042-3306.1984.tb01893.x
SP  - 163
EP  - 175
PY  - 1984
AB  - Summary Arachidonic acid is a polyunsaturated fatty acid covalently bound in esterified form in the cell membranes of most body cells. Following irritation or injury, arachidonic acid is released and oxygenated by enzyme systems leading to the formation of an important group of inflammatory mediators, the eicosanoids. It is now recognised that eicosanoid release is fundamental to the inflammatory process. For example, the prostaglandins and other prostanoids, products of the cyclo-oxygenase enzyme pathway, have potent inflammatory properties and prostaglandin E2 is readily detectable in equine acute inflammatory exudates. The administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs results in inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis and this explains the mode of action of agents such as phenylbutazone and flunixin. Lipoxygenase enzymes metabolise arachidonic acid to a group of non-cyclised eicosanoids, the leukotrienes, some of which are also important inflammatory mediators. They are probably of particular importance in leucocyte-mediated aspects of chronic inflammation. Currently available non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs, however, do not inhibit lipoxygenase activity. In the light of recent evidence, the inflammatory process is re-examined and the important emerging roles of both cyclo-oxygenase and lipoxygenase derived eicosanoids are explored. The mode of action of current and future antiinflammatory drugs offered to the equine clinician can be explained by their interference with arachidonic acid metabolism.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dursun, Erbil
AU  - Dursun, Nigar
AU  - Ural, Canan Eksi
AU  -             Çakci:, Aytül
TI  - Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (85)
JO  - Pain Practice
JA  - Pain Practice
VL  - 1
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-85.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1533-2500.2001.1011-85.x
SP  - 112
EP  - 113
PY  - 2001
AB  - Glenohumeral joint subluxation and reflex sympathetic dystrophy in hemiplegic patients. (Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, Turkey) Arch Phys Med Rehabil 1999; 81:944?946. This is a case-controlled study of the relationship between glenohumeral joint subluxation and reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) in hemiplegic patients set in an inpatient rehabilitation hospital. Thirty-five hemiplegic patients with RSD (RSD group) and 35 hemiplegic patients without RSD (non-RSD group) were included in this study. Patients with rotator cuff rupture, brachial plexus injury, or spasticity greater than stage 2 on the Ashworth scale were excluded. Both the RSD and non-RSD groups were assessed for presence and grade of subluxation from radiographs using a 5-point categorization. The degree of shoulder pain of the non-RSD group was assessed by a visual analogue scale of 10 points. Glenohumeral subluxation was found in 74.3% of the RSD group and 40% of the non-RSD group (P = 0.004). In the non-RSD group, 78.6% of the patients with subluxation and 38.1% of the patients without subluxation reported shoulder pain (P = 0.019). No correlation was found between the degree of shoulder pain and grade of subluxation in the non-RSD group (P = 0.152). Conclude that the findings suggest that shoulder subluxation may be a causative factor for RSD. Therefore, prevention and appropriate treatment of glenohumeral joint subluxation should be included in rehabilitation of hemiplegic patients. Comment by Miles Day, MD. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between shoulder subluxation in hemiplegic patients and reflex sympathetic dystrophy. They also examined if subluxation is associated with shoulder pain and the grade of subluxation in patients with subluxation and no reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD). Patients with injuries to the rotator cuff of the brachial plexus, marked spasticity, and major trauma to joint structures were excluded as these can be precipitating factors for RSD. The study noted a significantly higher presence of shoulder subluxation within the RSD group and the presence of pain was significantly high in patients with shoulder subluxation in the non-RSD group. The take home message of this article is that any measure or treatment that can be applied to the glenohumeral joint should be performed to eliminate the possibility of the patient developing RSD and subsequently hindering further rehabilitation in these patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hughes, A. D.
AU  - Coady, E.
AU  - Raynor, S.
AU  - Mayet, J.
AU  - Wright, A. R.
AU  - Shore, A. C.
AU  - Kooner, J. S.
AU  - Thom, S. A. McG.
AU  - Chaturvedi, N.
TI  - Reduced endothelial progenitor cells in European and South Asian men with atherosclerosis
JO  - European Journal of Clinical Investigation
VL  - 37
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2362.2007.01743.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2362.2007.01743.x
SP  - 35
EP  - 41
KW  - Atherosclerosis
KW  - coronary calcification
KW  - endothelial progenitor cells
KW  - ethnicity
KW  - intima-media thickness
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract Background? Circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) play a role in the repair and regeneration of the endothelium and may represent a novel cardiovascular risk factor. South Asian subjects have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease which is not fully explained by known risk factors. This study examined associations of EPCs with atherosclerosis and possible ethnic differences in EPCs. Materials and methods? A population sample of 58 European and South Asian adult men was enriched with the recruitment of an additional 59 European and South Asian men with known coronary disease. The coronary artery calcification score was measured by multi-slice computerized tomography (CT), carotid and femoral intima-media thickness (IMT), and femoral plaques were measured by ultrasound. The subjects were further subdivided into three categories of coronary artery disease on the basis of coronary artery calcification score and clinical history. Total EPCs and non-senescent EPCs (ns-EPCs) were quantified after 5 days cell culture and the number of late outgrowth colonies was measured over a 6-week test period. Circulating CD34+ haematopoietic precursor cells were measured by flow cytometry. Results? Individuals with femoral plaques had reduced total and ns-EPCs. The number of ns-EPCs were reduced in individuals with the most coronary atheroma and were inversely related to the coronary calcification score and femoral IMT. These relationships persisted after multivariate adjustment for other risk factors. The numbers of late outgrowth colonies or circulating CD34+ cells were unrelated to the presence of atherosclerosis. There were no differences in the number of EPCs between European and South Asian subjects. Conclusion? The number of EPCs are reduced in subjects with atherosclerosis independent of other risk factors. Reduction in EPC numbers may be an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis but does not explain ethnic differences in cardiovascular risk.
ER  - 

AU  - Foster, John R.
TI  - Toxicology of the Exocrine Pancreas
SN  - 9780470723272
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470744307.gat069
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780470744307.gat069
KW  - acute pancreatitis
KW  - chronic pancreatitis
KW  - pancreatic cancer
KW  - drug metabolism
KW  - phase 1 and 2 enzymes
KW  - ethanol
KW  - chlorinated hydrocarbons
KW  - anti-oxidants
KW  - reactive oxidant species
KW  - acinar
KW  - ductal
KW  - exocrine
KW  - microanatomy
KW  - functional morphology
KW  - diet
KW  - occupation
KW  - glutathione
KW  - solvents
KW  - animal models
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract The exocrine pancreas is not a common target organ for toxic drugs and chemicals. It is however the fifth most common human cancer in the western world, and acute and chronic pancreatitis, through various identifiable and unidentified causes, is a common disease in both the developed and developing countries of the world. Both inflammatory disease and cancer of the pancreas is correlated to lifestyle with poor diet and habits, such as moderate to high alcohol intake and smoking, having positive correlations to developing the disease. The chapter describes the functional anatomy of the organ together with its biochemistry that determines toxicity, in particular the role of oxidant damage in the development of cell and tissue damage is thought to be important. The consequences of toxic damage to the acinar cells are severe and primarily result from the auto-activation and hence autodigestion of the tissue by the digestive enzymes normally contained within the exocrine cells, a cascade of apoptosis/necrosis and fibrosis with the ultimate collapse of the organ, subsequent shock, multi-organ collapse and death. The organ has complex molecular mechanisms to prevent premature activation of the digestive enzymes and also has defence mechanisms present to neutralise any premature enzyme activation but these can be rendered ineffectual by factors such as alcohol abuse and a poor diet. Chemical exposure, through both occupational and consumer product usage, has been associated with the development of both pancreatic neoplastic and non-neoplastic disease but the relationship between exposure and disease has never developed further than a simple association and it is likely that the development of pancreatic disease is a multi-faceted combination of inter-related events, none of which in isolation can induce disease. The pancreas has its own array of phase 1 and 2 metabolic enzyme systems and the role of pancreatic drug and chemical activation and detoxification in inducing toxicity is discussed together with the possible secondary effects of hepatic drug/chemical activation and detoxification. Finally the role of animal models of pancreatic disease is discussed in terms of their contribution to understanding the aetiology of the human conditions and the possible use of therapeutic intervention in treating the disease.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rahman, M.H.
AU  - McGoldrick, M.D.
AU  - Haqqie, S.S.
TI  - Acute hemolysis and renal failure associated with charcoal hemoperfusion for valproic acid intoxication
JO  - Hemodialysis International
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470723272
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ba.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.1121ba.x
SP  - 89
EP  - 89
PY  - 2005
AB  - Charcoal hemoperfusion is an effective treatment in acute drug intoxication with small volume of distribution. For certain drugs, clearance rates are higher with hemoperfusion than hemodialysis. We describe a patient with severe valproic acid overdose who developed severe hemolysis and acute renal failure related to charcoal hemoperfusion treatment. A 50-year-old female was admitted to the hospital following valproic acid overdose. Initial valproic acid level was 73.6?mg/L, and she was treated with oral activated charcoal. Four hours later she developed mental status changes with valproic acid level at 490.9?mg/L and prolonged QT interval. Charcoal hemoperfusion was started with blood flow rate 400?ml/min. Patient developed bleeding with evidence of severe Before(*C.H.) After (C.H.) Hemoglobin 12.1?gm/DL 7.6?gm/DL Hematocrit 35.5?gm/DL 21.1?gm/DL Platelet count 268,000 tho/ul 43,000?tho/ul L.D.H 90?IU/L 2494?IU/L Valproic Acid 490.9?mg/L 74.1?mg/L * C.H. (Charcoal Hemoperfusion) Blood ? evidence of massive hemolysis intra-vascular hemolysis, shown in table (no evidence of HUS/TTP). She received transfusion of packed red blood cells, platelets, and fibrin. Over the next few days she developed oligouric acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis for 2 weeks. Eventually hemolysis resolved and the renal function improved (kidney biopsy was consistent with acute tubular necrosis). To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of severe intravascular hemolysis occurring during the charcoal hemoperfusion treatment. Etiology includes mechanical trauma to the red cells, probably related to high blood flow rate through the charcoal column.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rocha, Gustavo
AU  - Fernandes, Paula
AU  - Rocha, Paula
AU  - Quintas, Conceição
AU  - Martins, Teresa
AU  - Proença, Elisa
TI  - Pleural effusions in the neonate
JO  - Acta Paediatrica
VL  - 95
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780470723272
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1651-2227.2006.tb02342.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1651-2227.2006.tb02342.x
SP  - 791
EP  - 798
KW  - Chylothorax
KW  - hydrops
KW  - newborn
KW  - pleural effusion
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Introduction: Pleural effusions are rare in the neonate and may be associated to several clinical conditions. Only a few series of pleural effusions in the fetus and newborn are described in the literature. Aim: This study was undertaken to determine more accurately the causes and prognostic significance of pleural effusions in a population of high-risk neonates. Materials and methods: A retrospective chart review of 62 neonates admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit of six medical centers in the north of Portugal, between 1997 and 2004, that presented the diagnosis of pleural effusion. Results: 33M/29F newborns; preterms 47 (76%); GA 33 (25?40) wk; BW 1830 (660?4270) g; C-section 39 (63%). Pleural effusions were congenital in 20 (32%) newborns and acquired in 42 (68%). Congenital pleural effusions occurred as fetal hydrops in 11 (18%) patients and as chylothorax in 9 (15%). In four cases of hydrops, the cause was a congenital chylothorax. Congenital chylothorax (n=13) was the most common (65%) congenital pleural effusion in this study. The incidence of congenital chylothorax was 1:8.600 deliveries and male:female ratio was 2:1. Mortality occurred in five newborns due to pulmonary hypoplasia. Traumatic (iatrogenic) were the most frequent (n=31) acquired pleural effusions. These included 8 (13%) cases of hemothorax and 8 (13%) cases of total parenteral nutrition leakage. Pleural effusions after intra-thoracic surgery were mainly (79%) chylothoraces. There were 11 (26%) non-iatrogenic acquired pleural effusions. No mortality was associated with acquired pleural effusions. Conclusions: Congenital pleural effusions usually occur as hydrops or congenital chylothorax. Traumatic (iatrogenic) are the most frequent acquired pleural effusions in a tertiary NICU. Pleural effusions after intra-thoracic surgery are mainly chylothoraces. Non-iatrogenic acquired pleural effusions are associated to several clinical conditions, and mortality is usually associated to the underlying condition.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Tuncel, Ali Tunç
AU  - Boy, Nikolas
AU  - Morath, Marina A.
AU  - Hörster, Friederike
AU  - Mütze, Ulrike
AU  - Kölker, Stefan
TI  - Organic acidurias in adults: late complications and management
JO  - Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
JA  - J Inherit Metab Dis
VL  - 41
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780470723272
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1007/s10545-017-0135-2
DO  - doi:10.1007/s10545-017-0135-2
SP  - 765
EP  - 776
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Organic acidurias (synonym, organic acid disorders, OADs) are a heterogenous group of inherited metabolic diseases delineated with the implementation of gas chromatography/mass spectrometry in metabolic laboratories starting in the 1960s and 1970s. Biochemically, OADs are characterized by accumulation of mono-, di- and/or tricarboxylic acids (?organic acids?) and corresponding coenzyme A, carnitine and/or glycine esters, some of which are considered toxic at high concentrations. Clinically, disease onset is variable, however #Affected individuals may already present during the newborn period with life-threatening acute metabolic crises and acute multi-organ failure. Tandem mass spectrometry-based newborn screening programmes, in particular for isovaleric aciduria and glutaric aciduria type 1, have significantly reduced diagnostic delay. Dietary treatment with low protein intake or reduced intake of the precursor amino acid(s), carnitine supplementation, cofactor treatment (in responsive patients) and nonadsorbable antibiotics is commonly used for maintenance treatment. Emergency treatment options with high carbohydrate/glucose intake, pharmacological and extracorporeal detoxification of accumulating toxic metabolites for intensified therapy during threatening episodes exist. Diagnostic and therapeutic measures have improved survival and overall outcome in individuals with OADs. However, it has become increasingly evident that the manifestation of late disease complications cannot be reliably predicted and prevented. Conventional metabolic treatment often fails to prevent irreversible organ dysfunction with increasing age, even if patients are considered to be ?metabolically stable?. This has challenged our understanding of OADs and has elicited the discussion on optimized therapy, including (early) organ transplantation, and long-term care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Rioja, Eva
AU  - Dzikiti, Brighton T
AU  - Fosgate, Geoffrey
AU  - Goddard, Amelia
AU  - Stegmann, Frik G
AU  - Schoeman, Johan P
TI  - Effects of a constant rate infusion of magnesium sulphate in healthy dogs anaesthetized with isoflurane and undergoing ovariohysterectomy
JO  - Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia
VL  - 39
IS  - 6
SN  - 9780470723272
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2995.2012.00722.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-2995.2012.00722.x
SP  - 599
EP  - 610
KW  - anaesthesia
KW  - canine
KW  - magnesium sulphate
KW  - pain
KW  - thromboelastography
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Objective? To determine the effects of intravenous (IV) magnesium sulphate (MgSO4) as a bolus followed by a constant rate infusion (CRI) on anaesthetic requirements, neuroendocrine stress response to surgery, haemostasis and postoperative analgesia in healthy dogs undergoing ovariohysterectomy. Study design? Blinded randomized clinical trial. Animals? Sixteen female dogs. Methods? After intramuscular premedication with acepromazine (0.05?mg?kg?1) and morphine (0.3?mg?kg?1), anaesthesia was induced with diazepam (0.2?mg?kg?1) and propofol (2?mg?kg?1) intravenously and maintained with isoflurane in oxygen in all dogs. Dogs were randomly assigned to two groups, M and C. Group M received MgSO4 (50?mg?kg?1 over 15?minutes, followed by a 15?mg?kg?1?hour?1 CRI). Group C received an equivalent bolus and CRI of lactated Ringer?s solution. In addition, all dogs received lactated Ringer?s solution (10?mL?kg?1 over 15?minutes followed by 10?mL?kg?1?hour?1). End-tidal isoflurane and carbon dioxide tensions, cardio-respiratory variables, arterial blood gases, electrolytes, ACTH and cortisol concentrations were measured at different time points. Thromboelastography (TEG) was performed pre- and post-anaesthesia. Postoperative pain was evaluated using the short form of the Glasgow Composite Pain Scale. Data were analysed with repeated measures anova and Mann?Whitney U tests (p?<?0.05). Results? No statistically significant differences between groups were found in any of the measured variables. However, the alpha angle and maximal amplitude recorded by TEG in group M were significantly increased post-anaesthesia, but remained within the reference interval. One dog in Group M and two in Group C received rescue analgesia during recovery. Conclusions and clinical relevance? As used in this study, MgSO4 failed to decrease isoflurane requirements, postoperative pain and stress hormone concentrations; however, it did not produce any cardio-respiratory or major haemostatic side effects. Administration of intravenous MgSO4 together with an opioid during ovariohysterectomy in dogs does not seem to provide any clinical advantage.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Gupta, AK
AU  - Gover, MD
AU  - Lynde, CW
TI  - Pulse itraconazole vs. continuous terbinafine for the treatment of dermatophyte toenail onychomycosis in patients with diabetes mellitus
JO  - Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology
VL  - 20
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780470723272
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-3083.2006.01698.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1468-3083.2006.01698.x
SP  - 1188
EP  - 1193
KW  - diabetes
KW  - itraconazole
KW  - onychomycosis
KW  - terbinafine 
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract Background? Oral terbinafine and oral itraconazole are two of the most common agents used for the treatment of toenail dermatophyte onychomycosis. Despite the fact that diabetic patients are more likely to have onychomycosis than normal individuals are, there is little research into the efficacy of standard oral regimens of terbinafine and itraconazole for onychomycosis in the diabetic population. Study design? We present a prospective, randomized, single-blind, parallel group, comparator-controlled, multi-centre study designed to assess the efficacy of the pulse itraconazole (200 mg twice daily, 1 week on, 3 weeks off, for 12 weeks) vs. continuous terbinafine (250 mg once daily for 12 weeks) oral therapies in the treatment of dermatophyte toenail distal and lateral subungual onychomycosis (DLSO) in the diabetic population. Efficacy parameters? Primary efficacy measures included mycological cure rate (negative KOH and culture) and effective cure (mycological cure plus nail plate involvement of 10% or less) at Week 48. Results? At Week 48, mycological cure was attained by 88.2% (30 of 34) and 79.3% (23 of 29) of patients in the itraconazole and terbinafine groups, respectively (P not significant). Effective cure (mycological cure with ≤ 10% of nail plate involvement) was attained by 52.9% (18 of 34) of the itraconazole group and 51.7% (15 of 29) of the terbinafine group (P not significant). Three itraconazole patients experienced side effects in the form of gastrointestinal problems. There were no serious adverse events and no interactions with concomitant medications recorded. Discussion? Both continuous terbinafine and itraconazole pulse therapy are effective and safe in the management of dermatophyte toenail onychomycosis in people with diabetes.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cheeseman, M. T.
AU  - Kelly, D. F.
AU  - Horsfall, K. L.
TI  - Multisystemic inflammatory disease in a borzoi dog
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
VL  - 36
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470723272
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.1995.tb02758.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1748-5827.1995.tb02758.x
SP  - 22
EP  - 24
PY  - 1995
AB  - ABSTRACT A six-week-old female borzoi puppy from a brother-sister mating developed a generalised illness characterised by anorexia, temporary intention tremor, episodic pyrexia, tachypnoea, conjunctivitis, otitis and neck pain. Haematological abnormalities included an inflammatory leukogram and regenerative anaemia. Blood cultures remained sterile; clinical chemistry values were unremarkable. The puppy had recurrent seizures and was euthanased when 18 weeks old. Post mortem examination revealed a multisystemic inflammatory disease involving thyroids, lymph nodes, spleen, pancreas, bladder and lung, but no lesions to account for the neurological signs. The cause of this generalised disease was not recognised. The histological features are unusual and resemble those described in other dogs of this breed.
ER  - 

AU  - Lawrence, Tracey
C7  - pp. 253-269
TI  - Electrocardiography
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119277187.ch20
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119277187.ch20
SP  - 253-269
KW  - artifact
KW  - depolarization
KW  - electrocardiograph
KW  - electrode
KW  - filters
KW  - heart rate
KW  - lead systems
PY  - 1995
AB  - Summary The electrocardiograph (ECG) machine is an irreplaceable tool in the monitoring arena. This chapter describes how the ECG machine functions, explains the ECG cycle and normal ECG waveform morphology. Steps to identify abnormal ECG rhythms are discussed. Methods for obtaining an ECG, including proper lead placement, are provided. Diagrams, charts, tables and images are utilized to help provide a concise understanding of how the ECG is created and utilized in veterinary practice.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Naylor, R. J.
AU  - Mair, T. S.
AU  - Last, R.
TI  - Severe hyperkalaemia associated with renal dysplasia in a 2-day-old foal
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
VL  - 21
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781119277156
UR  - https://doi.org/10.2746/095777308X380300
DO  - doi:10.2746/095777308X380300
SP  - 358
EP  - 363
KW  - horse
KW  - foal
KW  - kidney
KW  - renal dysplasia
KW  - hyperglycaemia
KW  - hyperkalaemia
PY  - 2009
AB  - Summary A 2-day-old filly foal presented with signs of depression, recumbency and inappetence. Blood analyses revealed hypoalbuminaemia, hyperfibrinogenaemia, hyperglycaemia and hyperkalaemia. The foal deteriorated despite intensive treatment and was subjected to euthanasia. At post mortem examination, the urinary bladder, ureters and kidneys appeared normal grossly. Histologically both kidneys showed disorganised development with the presence of structures inappropriate for a foal of this age, including primitive glomeruli, immature renal tubules and persistent metanephric ducts. Based on these findings a diagnosis of bilateral renal dysplasia was made.
ER  - 
