
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bilbao, Itxarone
AU  - Dopazo, Cristina
AU  - Lazaro, Jose Luis
AU  - Castells, Luis
AU  - Escartin, Alfredo
AU  - Lopez, Iñigo
AU  - Sapisochin, Gonzalo
AU  - Balsells, Joaquin
AU  - Margarit, Carlos
TI  - Our experience in liver transplantation in patients over 65 yr of age
JO  - Clinical Transplantation
VL  - 22
IS  - 1
SN  - 0902-0063
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-0012.2007.00749.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1399-0012.2007.00749.x
SP  - 82
EP  - 88
KW  - elderly patients
KW  - liver transplantation
KW  - long-term survival
KW  - multivariate
KW  - outcome
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract:  Objectives:? The aim of this study was to analyze short- and long-term results of liver transplantation (LT) in patients over 65?yr. Material and methods:? Between 1996 and 2004, 386 patients underwent 415 LT at our center. The main indication for LT was post-necrotic cirrhosis in 59%, followed by hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) over cirrhosis in 33%. Half of the patients (53%) were hepatitis C virus (HCV) +. Overall, 72 patients were >65?yr of age. Actuarial survival, causes of mortality and postoperative complications were compared between groups: patients under and over 65?yr. Risk factors for poor outcome in patients over 65?yr were also analyzed. Results:? The older group had more patients at Child A stage, more HCC as an indication for LT and more HCV (+) patients, p?<?0.05. No differences were observed in donor and surgery characteristics, except for lower multi-transfusion and higher incidence of grafts with steatosis in the older group (p?<?0.05). Actuarial survival at one, three, five and 10 yr was 82%, 75%, 72%, and 70% for the <65?yr group vs. 77%, 66%, 55%, and 55% for the >65?yr group (p?=?0.03). Main causes of mortality in patients >65?yr were recurrence of underlying disease and medical causes. In the older age group, fewer infections (p?=?ns) and rejections (p?=?0.017) occurred in the postoperative period. Risk factor for poor outcome in the group of patients over 65?yr in multivariate analyses was pre-LT renal insufficiency (odds ratio 3.5, p?=?0.002, 95% confidence interval 1.58?7.82). Conclusion:? Results in patients >65?yr are comparable to those <65?yr if older LT candidates are carefully selected. Overimmunosuppression should be avoided in older candidates, as its effects could worsen the pre-existing diseases common in elderly patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Newton, Jonathon Timothy
TI  - Interdisciplinary health promotion: a call for theory-based interventions drawing on the skills of multiple disciplines
JO  - Community Dentistry and Oral Epidemiology
JA  - Community Dent Oral Epidemiol
VL  - 40
IS  - s2
SN  - 0301-5661
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0528.2012.00720.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-0528.2012.00720.x
SP  - 49
EP  - 54
KW  - anxiety
KW  - health promotion
KW  - interdisciplinary research
KW  - screening
KW  - social cognitions
KW  - theory-based interventions
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Promoting the health of populations demands the adoption of a perspective exploring the societal, political, community, family and individual determinants of health. I will argue that to develop interventions to modify health-related behaviours and health risks requires collaboration with a range of disciplines, in order to draw upon their theoretical, empirical and oftentimes political knowledge. To illustrate this thesis, I will draw upon research in three areas: improving oral health?related behaviours in individuals with periodontal disease and childhood caries; encouraging early recognition in head and neck cancer; and managing dental anxiety. Reviews of oral health education in the early 1990s suggested that approaches based on education were largely ineffective in the absence of the provision of fluoride supplementation. More recently, high-quality research has identified simple, theory-based interventions that can improve adherence to specific oral hygiene?related behaviours. Similarly, a range of studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of motivational interviewing for targeting caries-related behaviours in targeted groups. Dental anxiety remains a significant barrier to the uptake of dental services, and again, by working in multi-disciplinary teams, a proportionate and comprehensive range of interventions can be adopted to alleviate the burden of dental fear. Finally, head and neck cancer has potentially serious effects for sufferers, but often presents late for a variety of reasons. Through developing a theoretical model of help-seeking behaviour, psychologists have been able to identify targets for interventions and work together with the healthcare team to develop these.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Corines, Marina J.
AU  - Hamilton, Jada G.
AU  - Glogowski, Emily
AU  - Anrig, Chris A.
AU  - Goldberg, Rachael
AU  - Niehaus, Kate
AU  - Salo-Mullen, Erin
AU  - Harlan, Megan
AU  - Sheehan, Margaret R.
AU  - Trottier, Magan
AU  - Ahsraf, Asad
AU  - Tran, Christina
AU  - Jacobs, Lauren
AU  - Rau-Murthy, Rohini
AU  - Lincoln, Anne G.
AU  - Robson, Mark E.
AU  - Guillem, Jose G.
AU  - Markowitz, Arnold J.
AU  - Offit, Kenneth
AU  - Stadler, Zsofia K.
TI  - Educational and Psychosocial Support Needs in Lynch Syndrome: Implementation and Assessment of an Educational Workshop and Support Group
JO  - Journal of Genetic Counseling
JA  - J Genet Counsel
VL  - 26
IS  - 2
SN  - 1059-7700
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1007/s10897-016-0015-1
DO  - doi:10.1007/s10897-016-0015-1
SP  - 232
EP  - 243
KW  - Lynch syndrome
KW  - Hereditary cancer
KW  - Family support
KW  - Genetic counseling
KW  - Colorectal cancer
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Few reports of educational and counseling support resources exist for Lynch syndrome (LS), a disorder requiring multi-organ cancer screening and specialized medical care throughout adult life. Here we describe the development and efficacy of two resources designed to address this need, the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Clinical Genetics Service annual Lynch Syndrome Educational Workshop (LSEW), and a quarterly Lynch Syndrome Patient Advocacy Network (LSPAN) support group. The LSEW and LSPAN were implemented beginning in 2012. Participant survey data evaluating satisfaction, clarity, and unmet needs for each event were retrospectively analyzed and summarized using descriptive statistics. Annual LSEW attendance ranged from 53 to 75 total participants. LSEW year 1 participants indicated a need for a support group, and preferred in-person meetings at a frequency of every 3?6 months. For LSEW year 2?5 participants, >96 % reported satisfaction with the LSEW, and >82 % expressed interest in secure online support. Common themes for improvement included increased time for question and answer sessions and additional introductory genetics education. Responding LSPAN participants (n = 57 total survey responses in 11 meetings) found the meetings helpful (100 %), information clear (91 %), and presence of a genetic counselor useful (67 %). Desired discussion topics included coping with stress and anxiety, development of a support network, family communication about LS, genetic testing decisions, and bereavement. Following genetic counseling, a need exists for ongoing educational and emotional support in LS. Implementation of resources such as the LSEW and LSPAN is feasible and perceived as helpful by participants.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Beveridge, Jillian E.
AU  - Proffen, Benedikt L.
AU  - Karamchedu, Naga Padmini
AU  - Chin, Kaitlyn E.
AU  - Sieker, Jakob T.
AU  - Badger, Gary J.
AU  - Kiapour, Ata M.
AU  - Murray, Martha M.
AU  - Fleming, Braden C.
TI  - Cartilage Damage Is Related to ACL Stiffness in a Porcine Model of ACL Repair
JO  - Journal of Orthopaedic Research
JA  - J. Orthop. Res.
VL  - 37
IS  - 10
SN  - 0736-0266
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.24381
DO  - doi:10.1002/jor.24381
SP  - 2249
EP  - 2257
KW  - ACL
KW  - stiffness
KW  - porcine
KW  - knee
KW  - cartilage
KW  - osteoarthritis
KW  - MRI
PY  - 2019
AB  - ABSTRACT Inferior anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) structural properties may inadequately restrain tibiofemoral joint motion following surgery, contributing to the increased risk of post-traumatic osteoarthritis. Using both a direct measure of ACL linear stiffness and an in vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) T2*-based prediction model, we hypothesized that cartilage damage and ACL stiffness would increase over time, and that an inverse relationship between cartilage damage and ACL stiffness would emerge at a later stage of healing. After either 6, 12, or 24 weeks (w) of healing after ACL repair, ACL linear stiffness was determined from the force?displacement relationship during tensile testing ex vivo and predicted in vivo from the MRI T2*-based multiple linear regression model in 24 Yucatan minipigs. Tibiofemoral cartilage was graded postmortem. There was no relationship between cartilage damage and ACL stiffness at 6?w (R2?=?0.04; p?=?0.65), 12?w (R2?=?0.02; p?=?0.77), or when the data from all animals were pooled (R2?=?0.02; p?=?0.47). A significant inverse relationship between cartilage damage and ACL stiffness based on both ex vivo measurement (R2?=?0.90; p?<?0.001) and in vivo MRI prediction (R2?=?0.78; p?=?0.004) of ACL stiffness emerged at 24?w. This result suggests that 90% of the variability in gross cartilage changes is associated with the repaired ACL linear stiffness at 6 months of healing. Clinical Significance: Techniques that provide a higher stiffness to the repaired ACL may be required to mitigate the post-traumatic osteoarthritis commonly seen after ACL injury, and MRI T2* can be used as a noninvasive estimation of ligament stiffness. ? 2019 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 37:2249?2257, 2019
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hoyos, Angela
AU  - Angel-Urdinola, Diego F.
TI  - Assessing international organizations’ support to social enterprise
JO  - Development Policy Review
JA  - Dev Policy Rev
VL  - 37
IS  - S2
SN  - 0950-6764
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/dpr.12378
DO  - doi:10.1111/dpr.12378
SP  - O213
EP  - O229
KW  - International organizations
KW  - social enterprise
KW  - social innovation
KW  - sustainable development
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract This article takes stock of a sample of interventions and programmes across different countries and regions supported by international organizations to foster the development of social enterprise. The primary objective of the article is to generate a compilation of such interventions and draw some lessons about their potential contribution to the growth and sustainability of the sector. The results indicate that international organizations? support to social enterprise has focused primarily on the provision of financial resources, notably loans and grants. While programmes remain largely unassessed, the few available rigorous evaluations show that social enterprise has the potential to be a cost-effective mechanism to deliver basic social services to the poor. The article proposes a set of policy recommendations directed primarily to international organizations and the public administration to improve and enhance their support to the sector.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reckless, J. P. D.
AU  - Henry, P.
AU  - Pomykaj, T.
AU  - Lim, S. T.
AU  - Massaad, R.
AU  - Vandormael, K.
AU  - Johnson-Levonas, A. O.
AU  - Lis, K.
AU  - Brudi, P.
AU  - Allen, C.
TI  - Lipid-altering efficacy of ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg compared with doubling the statin dose in patients admitted to the hospital for a recent coronary event: the INFORCE study
JO  - International Journal of Clinical Practice
VL  - 62
IS  - 4
SN  - 1368-5031
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01697.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01697.x
SP  - 539
EP  - 554
PY  - 2008
AB  - Summary Background:? The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety profile of switching to ezetimibe/simvastatin (Eze/Simva) 10/40?mg compared with doubling the statin dose upon discharge in patients taking a statin and admitted to the hospital for the investigation of a coronary event. Design:? This phase IV, multi-centre, randomised, open-label, active-controlled, parallel group study enrolled 424 patients (aged?≥?18?years) hospitalised for an acute coronary event and taking a stable dose of a statin (≥?6?weeks) that could be doubled per the product label. Upon discharge from the hospital, patients were stratified by their statin dose/potency (high, medium and low) and randomised 1?:?1 to doubling of the statin dose (n?=?211) or Eze/Simva 10/40?mg (n?=?213) for 12?weeks. The primary efficacy variable was the absolute low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) value (mmol/l) at study end-point. Results:? Mean baseline LDL-C for the two treatment groups were 2.48 and 2.31?mmol/l for the Eze/Simva and statin groups respectively. At study end-point, least squares mean LDL-C values were 1.74?mmol/l in the Eze/Simva group and 2.22?mmol/l in the statin group resulting in a significant between-group difference of ?0.49?mmol/l (p?≤?0.001). Eze/Simva 10/40?mg also produced significantly lower total cholesterol (?0.49?mmol/l), non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [(non-HDL-C); ?0.53?mmol/l] and apolipoprotein B (?0.14?mmol/l) values compared with doubling the statin dose (p?≤?0.001 for all). Both treatments produced similar effects on triglycerides, C-reactive protein and HDL-C; the between treatment group differences were not significant (p?≥?0.160). Significantly more patients achieved LDL-C levels <?2.5 (<?100?mg/dl; 86% vs. 72%), <?2.0 (<?77?mg/dl; 70% vs. 42%) and <?1.8?mmol/l (<?70?mg/dl; 60% vs. 31%) with Eze/Simva than statin (all p?≤?0.001). Eze/Simva was generally well tolerated, with a safety profile similar to statin. There were no differences in the incidences of liver transaminases ≥?3???upper limit of normal (ULN) or creatine kinase ≥?10???ULN between the groups. Conclusions:? In patients taking a statin and admitted to the hospital for investigation of a coronary event, treatment with Eze/Simva 10/40?mg for 12?weeks produced greater improvements in lipids with a similar safety profile compared with doubling of the statin dose.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Romero, Sergio
TI  - “They Don't Get Speak Our Language Right”: Language Standardization, Power And Migration among the Q'eqchi' Maya
JO  - Journal of Linguistic Anthropology
VL  - 22
IS  - 2
SN  - 1055-1360
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1548-1395.2012.01146.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1548-1395.2012.01146.x
SP  - E21
EP  - E41
PY  - 2012
AB  - This article examines the effect of emerging vernaculars on the social diffusion and cultural roles of standardization projects in multi-dialectal migrant communities. I explore the impact of Standard Q'eqchi', a standard variety crafted by language activists, on Lowland Q'eqchi', a new vernacular variety of Q'eqchi' Mayan spoken in migrant rural communities in northwestern and northern Guatemala. Rather than being innovations, the sociolinguistic history of highland migrants backgrounds the social meanings associated with both varieties. The enregisterment of Lowland Q'eqchi' and Standard Q'eqchi' occurred concurrently in the lowlands, reinforcing and enabling each other. I discuss the congruent articulation of successful standardization projects with emerging local regimes of social indexicality and the way ethnic ideologies and their linguistic expression mediate changes in cultural representations of ethnicity, authority and education among the Q'eqchi' Maya.?[Language ideologies, dialectology, Q'eqchi', Mayan languages, Mesoamerica]
ER  - 

AU  - Hollander, Carel F.
AU  - Becker, Henk A.
C7  - pp. 221-234
TI  - Planning for Health Services for the Elderly
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470513583.ch15
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780470513583.ch15
SP  - 221-234
KW  - planning
KW  - health services
KW  - older people
KW  - scenario committee on ageing
KW  - california
PY  - 2012
AB  - Summary In order to create health services that effectively respond to the changing picture of health, governments should try to anticipate the health needs for the future. The scenarios for the elderly that are briefly discussed in this paper are approximations of developments that are largely autonomous if considered from the position of the individuals and organizations responsible for policies on health and health services. The three contextual scenarios developed are based on the forecasts, explorations and speculations to be found in the literature and also on the outcome of discussions with groups of experts in the fields of medical, biological and technological research and practice. The following variables have been incorporated in the study preparing the scenarios: demographic developments, the health status of the elderly, health services for the elderly, developments in medical, biological and technological fields, and societal developments, both economic and social. These scenarios provide policy makers with a learning environment in which they can test the strategies that are considered to answer the questions that they face, and evaluate the particular circumstances in which these strategies might be feasible.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Catón, Javier
AU  - Bostanci, Nagihan
AU  - Remboutsika, Eumorphia
AU  - De Bari, Cosimo
AU  - Mitsiadis, Thimios A.
TI  - Future dentistry: cell therapy meets tooth and periodontal repair and regeneration
JO  - Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
VL  - 15
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1582-4934.2010.01251.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1582-4934.2010.01251.x
SP  - 1054
EP  - 1065
KW  - tooth
KW  - odontoblast
KW  - periodontal ligament
KW  - stem cells
KW  - dental pulp
KW  - implants
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract ?? Introduction -? The need for tooth tissue engineering -? Cellular components and development of tooth -? Bases for tooth tissue engineering -? The patient as a recipient and as the source of cells -? Dental stem cell based tissue engineering -? Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) -? The clinical application of DPSCs in regeneration of the pulp/dentin complex -? Periodontal tissues as a source and niche for stem cells -? Past, current and future approaches in periodontal regeneration -? Molecular mechanisms and factors regulating regeneration of periodontal tissues -? Scaffolding and material science ?? Conclusions Cell-based tissue repair of the tooth and ? tooth-supporting ? periodontal ligament (PDL) is a new attractive approach that complements traditional restorative or surgical techniques for replacement of injured or pathologically damaged tissues. In such therapeutic approaches, stem cells and/or progenitor cells are manipulated?in vitro?and administered to patients as living and dynamic biological agents. In this review, we discuss the clonogenic potential of human dental and periodontal tissues such as the dental pulp and the PDL and their potential for tooth and periodontal repair and/or regeneration. We propose novel therapeutic approaches using stem cells or progenitor cells, which are targeted to regenerate the lost dental or periodontal tissue.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hiebl, A.
AU  - Auer, A.
AU  - Bagrinovschi, G.
AU  - Stejskal, M.
AU  - Hirt, R.
AU  - Rümenapf, H. T.
AU  - Tichy, A.
AU  - Künzel, F.
TI  - Detection of selected viral pathogens in dogs with canine infectious respiratory disease in Austria
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 60
IS  - 10
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.13051
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.13051
SP  - 594
EP  - 600
PY  - 2019
AB  - Objectives To assess the prevalence of canine parainfluenza virus, canine adenovirus type 2, canine distemper virus, canine respiratory coronavirus and influenza virus A infections in: (1) privately-owned or, (2) kennelled dogs showing signs consistent with canine infectious respiratory disease and, (3) clinically healthy dogs in Vienna, Austria. Materials and Methods Prospectively, nasal and tonsillar swabs from 214 dogs affected with infectious respiratory disease, and 50 healthy control dogs were tested for nucleic acids specific to the various viral infections. Concurrent bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from 31 dogs with chronic respiratory disease was investigated for the same viral pathogens. Additionally, anti-canine respiratory coronavirus antibody concentrations were measured in paired blood samples from 30 acutely diseased dogs. Results Canine respiratory coronavirus (7.5%) and canine parainfluenza virus (6.5%) were the most commonly detected viruses in samples from the upper airways of dogs with respiratory infections. Serological results showed a significant seroconversion in response to coronavirus in 50% of the examined cases. None of the samples was positive for influenza virus A-specific nucleic acid. Canine coronavirus-specific nucleic acid was detected in 4.0% of healthy dogs. Clinical Significance Canine coronavirus should be considered as a clinically relevant cause of infectious respiratory disease in crowded dog populations. For sample collection, the nasal mucosa can be recommended as the favoured site. Analysis of paired serum samples aids verification of canine coronavirus infection in respiratory disease.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Simak, Jan
AU  - De Paoli, Silvia
C7  - e1448
TI  - The effects of nanomaterials on blood coagulation in hemostasis and thrombosis
JO  - WIREs Nanomedicine and Nanobiotechnology
JA  - WIREs Nanomed Nanobiotechnol
VL  - 9
IS  - 5
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/wnan.1448
DO  - doi:10.1002/wnan.1448
SP  - e1448
PY  - 2017
AB  - The blood coagulation balance in the organism is achieved by the interaction of the blood platelets (PLTs) with the plasma coagulation system (PCS) and the vascular endothelial cells. In healthy organism, these systems prevent thrombosis and, in events of vascular damage, enable blood clotting to stop bleeding. The dysregulation of hemostasis may cause serious thrombotic and/or hemorrhagic pathologies. Numerous engineered nanomaterials are being investigated for biomedical purposes and are unavoidably exposed to the blood. Also, nanomaterials may access vascular system after occupational, environmental, or other types of exposure. Thus, it is essential to evaluate the effects of engineered nanomaterials on hemostasis. This review focuses on investigations of nanomaterial interactions with the blood components involved in blood coagulation: the PCS and PLTs. Particular emphases include the pathophysiology of effects of nanomaterials on the PCS, including the kallikrein-kinin system, and on PLTs. Methods for investigating these interactions are briefly described, and a review of the most important studies on the interactions of nanomaterials with plasma coagulation and platelets is provided. WIREs Nanomed Nanobiotechnol 2017, 9:e1448. doi: 10.1002/wnan.1448 This article is categorized under: Implantable Materials and Surgical Technologies > Nanomaterials and Implants Toxicology and Regulatory Issues in Nanomedicine > Toxicology of Nanomaterials
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kelly, Teresa
AU  - Simmons, Warren
AU  - Gregory, Esther
TI  - Risk assessment and management: A community forensic mental health practice model
JO  - International Journal of Mental Health Nursing
VL  - 11
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1440-0979.2002.00250.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1440-0979.2002.00250.x
SP  - 206
EP  - 213
KW  - forensic patient
KW  - forensic nursing
KW  - practice model
KW  - risk assessment
KW  - risk management
PY  - 2002
AB  - ABSTRACT: In Victoria, the Crimes (Mental Impairment and Unfitness to be Tried) Act (1997) reformed legal practice in relation to the detention, management and release of persons found by a court to be not guilty on the grounds of insanity or unfit to be tried. This Act provides a legal structure for such ?forensic patients? to move from secure inpatient facilities into the community. This new legislative landscape has generated challenges for all stakeholders and has provided the impetus for the development of a risk assessment and management model. The key components of the model are the risk profile, assessment and management plan. The discussion comprises theory, legislation, practice implications and limitations of the model. Practice implications concern the provision of objective tools, which identify risk and document strategic interventions to support clinical management. Some of the practice limitations include the model's applicability to risk assessment and management and its dependence on a mercurial multi-service interface in after-hours crisis situations. In addition to this, the paper articulates human limitations implicit in the therapeutic relationship that necessarily underpins the model. The paper concludes with an exploration of the importance of evaluative processes as well as the need for formal support and education for clinicians.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Nursing/Psychosocial/Health Services
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
SP  - 14
EP  - 23
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Melanie A. Adams, 1 Bradley V. Vaughn, and 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh ( 1 Dept. of Neurology, Univ. of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Seizure control in epilepsy has been thought to be the primary goal for both patients and clinicians. However, practitioners may not be fully aware of what goals epilepsy patients truly wish to attain. We surveyed epilepsy patients in our clinic and asked them to list their primary goal for treatment of their epilepsy. We also considered how treatment regimen and seizure frequency may influence a patient's goals. Methods: We surveyed 48 patients in our Epilepsy Clinic at the University of North Carolina and asked them to list their primary goal for their epilepsy treatment, the number of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) they used, and their seizure frequency. Results: Forty-eight patients with a mean age of 41.3 years completed the survey and 32 were female. The subjects averaged taking 2 antiepileptic drugs and had an average seizure frequency of one seizure per month. We grouped the patients by number of AEDs used and seizure frequency. We found that patients who were using two or more antiepileptic drugs were more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 19% of patients taking one AED listed seizure control as their primary goal, but 75% of patients taking two AEDs listed seizure control as their goal and 93% of patients taking three AEDs listed seizure control as their goal. Additionally, patients that had a higher seizure frequency were also more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. When looking at seizure frequency, 69% of patients who had more frequent seizures (seizures occurring at least once per month) listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. All of the patients (n = 4) who had more than one seizure per week, but less than one seizure per day, listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 40% of patients who had been seizure-free for one year or longer listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. Conclusions: In our study we found that most of our epilepsy patients listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. However, we found that patients who were taking more antiepileptic medications and had a higher seizure frequency were most likely to list seizure control as their primary goal. This may indicate that patients are willing to use more than one AED for seizure control despite the risk of an increase in side effects from the combination of medications. Additionally, we found that patients who were using one AED and had fewer seizures were least likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. This highlights the importance of communication between patients who have seizures and the practitioners who treat them to establish a treatment plan that can insure compliance from the patient, especially if the patient has refractory seizures. 1 Marlene Blackman, 1,2 Elaine Wirrell, and 1,2 Lorie Hamiwka ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy have greater behavior problems than healthy controls. Both intractability and mental handicap predict greater risk. Methods: Cohort study of 58 children aged 4?17 years with epilepsy attending a tertiary care pediatric neurology clinic. Parent-completed Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) subscores were compared between children with and without refractory epilepsy (defined as failure of >2 AEDs and seizures ≥ q3monthly over the past year) and with and without mental handicap using the Mann-Whitney U test. Results: 58 children were surveyed, 21 with refractory epilepsy (4 normal cognition, 17 mental handicap) and 37 with non-refractory epilepsy (22 normal cognition, 15 mental handicap). Groups did not differ significantly with respect to age or gender. Those with refractory epilepsy scored significantly higher (more abnormal) on the Social Problems (p < 0.05) and Attention Problems (p < 0.02) subscales of the CBCL. Those with mental handicap scored significantly higher on the Withdrawn (p < 0.001), Social Problems (p < 0.00001), Thought Problems (p < 0.00005), Attention Problems (p < 0.00001) and Aggressive Behavior (p < 0.02) subscales. Conclusions: While children with refractory epilepsy have greater behavior problems as indicated by the Social Problems and Attention Problems subscales, co-morbid cognitive impairment appears to be even more predictive of poor behavioral outcome in children with epilepsy. 1 Janice M. Buelow, 1 Joan K. Austin, 1 Angela M. McNelis, and 1 Cheryl P. Shore ( 1 School of Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Parents of children with epilepsy and Intellectual Disability (ID) report that their children have significant behavior problems. Past research shows that the level of family stress and child behavior problems are related, however the nature of this relationship is not well understood. In order to better understand the complex interaction of family stress and child behavior problems, this study describes the behavior problems of children with epilepsy and ID and parental perception of their child's behavior problems. Methods: Qualitative naturalistic inquiry was used to describe naturally occurring phenomena. Participants were 20 parents of children (9?16 years, mean = 12.2) who had at least two seizures a year or were on anti-epilepsy medications, and had an IQ between 55 and 75. Open-ended interviews were conducted with parents to explore the problems they experienced while raising their children. Interviews lasted about 1 hour, were tape recorded and transcribed verbatim. Each interview was analyzed for within-case themes. After interviews were analyzed individually, themes were compared across cases to identify commonalities. Two researchers reviewed each interview and agreement was reached on themes Results: The most common problem behaviors were: (1) attention problems, (2) inappropriate behavior in public including temper tantrums, (3) poor socialization skills including inability to make friends, and (4) violent behavior including injuries to self and others. Parent themes regarding behavior were (1) I recognize and can manage my child's behavior, (2) my child's behaviors are just part of life, (3) my child's behaviors problems are because of others' actions and (4) my child's behavior problems are a result of seizures. Only one family out of 20 stated that there were no behavior problems. Conclusions: This study describes specific behavior problems that children experience and parental perceptions regarding the behavior. Child behaviors ranged from attention problems to violent behavior and family themes ranged from recognition of the problem to blaming the problem on outside events. Future studies should address the underlying causes of the behavior problems in these children with the goal of intervening to reduce or eliminate these problem areas. In addition, clinicians should be assessing for behavior problems in children with epilepsy and low IQ. (Supported by NR 04536 and NR 005035v 1 Kami D. Clark, 1 Steve S. Chung, and 1 David M. Treiman ( 1 Epilepsy Program, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: The number of medication and treatment options for the 2.3 million epilepsy patients in the U.S. in increasing. Understanding treatment regimens including medications and diagnostic testing is crucial for epilepsy patients. In addition, accurately conveying information concerning adverse effects of antiepileptic medications is critical. A lack of understanding or education may adversely effect medication compliance and treatment efficacy. Returning the phone calls of patients with questions is an important but often a time-consuming and costly task for healthcare providers. We analyzed patient care related phone calls to try to identify ways in which patient education could be improved. Therefore, reducing the frequency of phone queries from patients. Methods: We evaluated all patient care related phone calls received by the epilepsy nurse practitioner in the Barrow Neurological Institute Adult Epilepsy Clinic from December 2004 through April 2005. A total of 209 calls were evaluated. These calls excluded patients calling to request medication refills or appointments, and any call not placed by an epilepsy patient or his/her caregiver. Results: The 209 patient phone calls were divided into eight categories. Medication related questions accounted for 34.4% (72) of all calls. Reporting breakthrough seizures, 32.5% (68), queries regarding lab/test results, 8.6% (18), work/disability issues, 8.2% (17), other health related questions, 8.2% (17), OTC medication questions, 4.8% (10), other epilepsy treatment options, 1.9% (4), and 1.4% (3) called the clinic to report doing well. We reviewed common questions of epilepsy patients who call the epilepsy clinic so that we may redirect education efforts. The most common call received was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects, new onset of symptoms, and medication titration and weaning schedules. Although, initial in-office medication education and written titration schedules were provided for all these patients, almost thirty five percent required additional education or clarification via time consuming telephone conversations. Conclusions: The most common call received to our clinic was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects (44) and verifying medication titration and weaning schedules (28). In order to optimize patient care and patient empowerment, our study indicates that the development of clearly written medication side effect profiles and medication titration and weaning schedules may improve patient care and reduce incoming phone calls. 1 B. M. Corbett, 1 S. L. Hanson, 1 N. F. Lendzion, 1 T. B. Pipe, 1 J. J. Bortz, 1 J. F. Drazkowski, 1 J. I. Sirven, 1 L. C. Helepololei, 1 J. M. Muccioli, 1 L. M. Tapsell, 1 L. M. Autry, 1 D. L. Shulman, 1 J. K. Gerke, and 1 R. S. Zimmerman ( 1 5 West, Mayo Clinic Hospital, Scottsdale, AZ ) Rationale: At MCH, a select number of patients with medically intractable seizures undergo diagnostic admissions involving subtraction ictal SPECT co-registered to MRI (SISCOM). The timeliness and efficiency of radioisotope injection is crucial to the potential identification of epileptogenic foci. The optimum results yielded by this procedure requires timing of radioisotope injection to be as close to seizure onset as possible. However, little is known about factors that facilitate or hinder the efficiency of ictal injections. Our pilot study is an important first step in gathering objective data regarding facilitators and barriers to efficient radioisotope administration. Methods: A focus-group questionnaire was distributed to the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit (EMU) nursing staff in order to identify key factors related to injection response time. From this data, an item checklist was derived and subsequently used to evaluate a retrospective series of 16 consecutive radioisotope injections. Eight of these cases fell within 60 seconds of seizure onset. Eight injections occurred after the 60-second cutoff. Videotapes of each injection were independently reviewed by raters blind to response time. Results: Results revealed timing efficiency was significantly related to a higher number of staff assisting in the procedure (?2= 11.20, p = .01). Although not statistically significant, a trend regarding an inverse relationship between gloving time and injection efficiency was evidenced. Other variables, including patient responsiveness, amount of environmental clutter, and the number of SISCOM patients on the unit were not related to time between seizure onset and injection. Conclusions: This pilot study is part of a broader investigation that includes prospective data derived from a larger group of study patients. Initial results identified a positive relationship between the number of staff available to assist in the procedure and the timing efficiency of SISCOM injections. These data may reflect several factors, including 1) efficacy of teamwork required to stabilize and prepare patients for injection and 2) increased consensus regarding the appropriateness of injection. The data also suggests gloving in advance, rather than at the time of seizure onset, facilitates speed of injection. Finally, these data may have important implications in the evaluation of acuity and staffing levels for patients undergoing ictal SPECT studies. 1 Sandra M. Cushner-Weinstein, 1 Leslie Bethke-Pope, 2 Jay Salpekar, 1 William D. Gaillard, 1 Phillip L. Pearl, 1 Marian Kolodgie, 1 Audrey Scully, 1 Joan Conry, and 1 Steve L. Weinstein ( 1 Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, George Washington University, Washington, DC ; and 2 Psychiatry, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Camps developed for children with epilepsy were questioned to evaluate change in design, goals, and programs from the years 2001 to 2005. The expectation was to find an increase in condition specific camps, common identified goals, and the number of individuals with epilepsy in leadership roles. Camps were compared for similarities and differences. Methods: In 2001, thirty-one camps for children with epilepsy received telephone interviews comprised of thirty-eight questions. In 2005, twenty-five camps for children with epilepsy received a questionnaire by mail or e-mail and phone contact for clarification. The thirty-eight questions in 2001 were reduced to twenty questions in 2005, based on the original questions and answers. Included in the questions were camp designs, goals, composition and age of campers, schedules, opportunities for camper advancement, return rates, percentage of staff with epilepsy, co-morbidities, and staff to camper ratio. Results: From 2001 to 2005, three primary designs of camps continue to exist with a shift towards condition specific camps. The designs include camps for children diagnosed with epilepsy, for family member(s) and campers with epilepsy, and integrated or mainstream camps. Over four years, the number of camps increased serving children with epilepsy only, 54% (2001) to 60% (2005), and serving children with epilepsy and family members, 3% (2001) to 24% (2005). Also a decrease in the number of integrated camps from 19% (2001) to 16% (2005) was found. Other findings include in 2001, 50% of the camps did not have counselors with epilepsy while in 2005, 65% did; however, 20% had less than 10% of counselors with epilepsy. Only 52% of camps in 2001 offered opportunities for campers to advance to leadership roles (counselors in training or assistants) and there was an increase (64%) in 2005. Also in 2005, 65% of the camps selected socialization, independence, and self-esteem as their top three camper benefits and goals, while in 2001, less than 35% of the camps identified socialization and self-esteem as benefits or goals. Conclusions: The percentage of condition specific camps serving children with epilepsy and epilepsy and family member(s) increased over four years, as did the opportunities for campers to advance in leadership roles. It is important for camps serving children with epilepsy to question their design and implement programs to support and promote goals. 1 Kirsti J. Dahlen, 1 Torunn Erichsen, and 1 Siv Skarstein ( 1 Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; and Administration, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway ) Rationale: Over the past decades a change in paradigm has taken place from seeing the patient as a passive receiver of treatment, till todays focus on empowerment and individual rehabilitation prosesses. A multidiciplinary educational programme for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation was established at the National Centre for Epilepsy in Norway in 2003. This educational programme focuses on two main subjects: Evidence based treatment and care within epilepsy and the rehabilitation prosess, including multidiciplinary communication and cooperation, and patient autonomy. The education takes place at the epilepsy centre and the syllabus is developed in close collaboration with a local university college. The students meet five sessions per year, each session lasting four days. The programme includes lectures, tutoring and group work. In this study, we have assessed the satisfaction among the students who completed the programme in 2003/4 and 2004/5. Methods: All 31 students participating in course l (2003/4) and course 2 (2004/5) answered a standardized evaluation questionnaire. The questionnaire contained 7 questiones with five alternative answers, scaled from 1 (bad) to 5 (very good). 18 of the students attending the educational programme were registered nurses and 13 were registered nurses for the mentally subnormal. 14 were fulltime employed within community based service and 17 fulltime employed within specialist service. Results: 31 students have completed the courses so far. Evaluation of satisfaction with the programme in each session shows that all 31 students scored from good to very good. Evaluation according to relevance of the main learning objects for the education and the use of internal lectures from the centre, showed similar results. Student satisfaction regarding lectures and group work within epileptology showed a higher score than within rehabilitation. Conclusions: A multidiciplinary education for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation seems to be of importance for the participants. The syllabus is evaluated to be relevant for the purpose of this education. A pedagogical challenge is how to merge the two main objects. 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 1,2 Priscila Barioni Salgado, 1,2 Ana Lúcia Andrade Noronha, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, UNICAMP, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Psychology, ASPE, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The purpose of this study is to estimate the magnitude of epilepsy stigma in four cities in the southern region of Brazil, a limited-resource country. Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional population-based study in Campinas, a large city with ?1 million inhabitants in the southeast of Brazil. We applied Stigma Scale of Epilepsy (SSE) in 1.850 people from all the regions within the city following a sampling selection methodology (95% confidence interval and error of 2.3%). In order to assess whether there is a regional difference in degree of epilepsy stigma, we applied SSE in a random selected people on the streets during the II National Week of Epilepsy in other three cities; Vila Velha, Curitiba, and S?o Paulo. SSE consists of 10 questions that provide a total score ranging from 0 (no stigma) to 100 (highest level of stigma). SSE was developed and validated by our group and showed high internal consistency (α Cronbach's coefficient = 0.81). Sample size required for assessing group differences using SSE is 47 subjects (r = 0,40; alpha = 0,05 [IC = 95%]; beta = 0,20). Results: The mean age of the subjects (53% women) was 39 years (range from 12 to 90 years) in Campinas. The mean SSE score was 42 (range from 3 to 98; SD = 14). Women had SSE score higher (43) than men (40) (t-test [1848]= 5.42; p < 0.001). In regard to religion, spiritism had lowest level of SSE score (35); (ANOVA [4,1845]= 4.4; p = 0.0015, Tukey's: spiritism<catholic = evangelic = others = no religion). Level of education showed inverse relation to SSE scores, illiterate people had higher level of SSE score (45) than people with university degree (37) (ANOVA [4,1845]= 16.3; p < 0.0001). In other three cities, it was applied 209 questionnaires (Curitiba = 83 subjects, S?o Paulo = 47, Vila Velha = 79). The mean SSE (95% Confidence interval) score were different among four cities: Campinas = 42 (95%CI = 41?43); Vila Velha = 42 (95%CI = 39?45); Curitiba = 49 (95%CI = 46?52); S?o Paulo = 53 (95%CI = 48?58). Conclusions: Our study showed that there are differences in the perception of stigma in different societies in the same country. The magnitude of stigma is different within segment a society, highlighting that sociocultural factors, such as gender, religion, and level of education are important predictors of stigma. Mass media campaign should target these social segments to fight prejudice and improve social acceptance of people with epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Patricia Fischer ( 1 Department of Pharmacy Practice, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Developing a seizure emergency treatment plan enables efficient management of seizure emergencies and decreases the potential for seizure-related complications. Individualized treatment plans provide for more patient and caregiver control in seizure emergencies, minimize the effect seizures have in the workplace or at school, and may reduce the need for access to emergency medical care. Recent emphasis has been placed on seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children; however, adults who experience seizures would also benefit from a predetermined course of action for seizure emergencies. Methods: A comprehensive review of the components associated with seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children, along with a literature review and clinical experience with adult patients with seizures, revealed that a seizure emergency treatment plan for adults would be a practical and comprehensive adjunctive treatment approach. The unique needs of adult patients were taken into consideration to develop a protocol for designing seizure emergency treatment plans for an adult population. Results: A 5-phase protocol to develop seizure emergency treatment plans for adult patients with seizures was created. In Phase I, patients who would benefit from plan development are identified; patients who require emergency medical transport for prolonged seizure episodes, patients whose antiepileptic drug regimen is being changed, and patients who are severely affected by their seizure activity are candidates. In Phase II, key plan components are identified, including seizure presentation and history, recognition of seizure emergencies, seizure first aid, and caretaker designation. If emergency seizure treatment includes seizure rescue medication, diazepam rectal gel (Diastat?) information (eg, administration instructions, time to stop seizures, instructions regarding repeat dosing, patient care) is delineated. In Phase III, specific steps needed to implement the plan are addressed, including caregiver education, use in patient-specific environments (eg, at work, while traveling), and removal of perceived obstacles to success. In Phase IV, efficacy, safety, ease of implementation, and patient and caregiver satisfaction with the plan are evaluated. Phase V allows for plan modification based on the evaluation as well as changes in seizure presentation and patient physical characteristics. Conclusions: Adult patients who experience seizures have unique treatment needs that warrant the development and implementation of individualized seizure emergency treatment plans for optimal management of seizure activity. (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Laura H. Goldstein, 2 Leah Holland, 2 Helen Soteriou, and 2 John D.C. Mellers ( 1 Psychology, PO 77, Institute of Psychiatry, London, United Kingdom ; and 2 Neuropsychiatry, Maudsley Hospital, London, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Whilst psychosocial well-being in people with epilepsy is thought to be related to styles of coping, less is known about the relationship between the way people with epilepsy perceive their illness (i.e. their illness representations) and their psychological state. Similarly, little is known about the extent to which illness representations are related to coping strategies when predicting outcome measures such as mood. Therefore, this study set out to extend what is known about predictors of anxiety and depression symptoms in adults with chronic epilepsy. Methods: Forty-three adults with chronic epilepsy attending out-patient hospital clinics completed the Illness Perception Questionnaire, the Ways of Coping Scale and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Recent seizure frequency was noted, as were patients' seizure types and age at onset of their epilepsy. Results: Whilst epilepsy variables (seizure frequency, age at seizure onset and number of seizure types) were not significantly related to mood, having also adjusted for gender within multiple regression analyses, an increased use of escape-avoidance and a decreased use of distancing as coping strategies best predicted patients' anxiety scores. In addition to the use of escape-avoidant coping, depression scores were also best predicted by the use of self-controlling coping strategies. After accounting for coping styles, anxiety scores were independently predicted by Illness Identity scores (i.e. the number of symptoms that patients associated with their seizures); this indicated that coping was not simply mediating the impact of illness representations on patients' mood. In contrast, no measure of illness representations independently predicted depression scores. Conclusions: Our results highlight the potential relevance of epilepsy patients' cognitive representations of their illness (and in particular patients' beliefs concerning Illness Identity), as well as their coping styles in determining their psychological well-being. Such factors may also be of importance when studying aspects of their health-related behaviour. 1 Andres M. Kanner, 1 Joanne Wuu, 2 Bruce Hermann, 3 Kimford Meador, 4 Frank Gilliam, and 5 John Barry ( 1 Neurological Sciences, Rush Medical College, Chicago, IL ; 2 Neurology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison, WI ; 3 Neurology, University of Florida School of Medicine, Gainsville, FL ; 4 Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 5 Psychiatry, Stanford Univesrity School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA ) Rationale: In patients with epilepsy (PWE) up to 50% of depressive episodes are atypical as they fail to meet any of the diagnostic criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV). Their semiology tends to be similar to dysthymic disorders and can therefore be referred as Dysthymic-like Disorders of Epilepsy (DLDE). The purpose of this study was to identify the most frequent symptoms of DLDE that could be used in the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. Methods: First phase: Sample A: 205 consecutive PWE from five outpatient epilepsy clinics underwent structured psychiatric interviews with two validated instruments used to identify Axis I diagnoses, according to the DSM-IV criteria (the Structured Clinical Interview for Axis I DSM-IV Disorders [SCID] and the Minin International Neuropsychiatric Inventory) and completed a 46 item instrument, the Mood and Anxiety Symptoms in Epilepsy (MASE), integrated by symptoms of depression (n = 16), anxiety (n = 11), irritability (n = 9), socialization difficulties (n = 5), increased energy (n = 3) and physical symptoms (n = 2). Each item inquires on the presence of a symptom for the last two weeks and is rated on a 4 Lickert Scale (1 [not at all] to 4 [all the time]) and was completed twice, two weeks apart. The MASE has a high internal consistency with a Chronbach alpha of 0.96. Among the 205 patients, 52 failed to meet any diagnostic criteria on the SCID and MINI but had a mean of 17.7 ± 7 positive symptoms (rated as 3 [some of the time] or 4 [all of the time]) on the MASE. Thirteen symptoms were identified by more than 50% of these patients. Second phase: The presence of these 13 symptoms was investigated in a second sample, of 159 PWE and a DLDE (Sample B) who underwent an evaluation with the same psychiatric instruments. Results: Among the 13 symptoms identified in > 50% of sample A patients (see below), 11 were identified in > 50% of sample B patients. These included: feel like crying (52%), disappointed (70%), moody (75%), worried (69%), tense (68%), get impatient easily (72%), agitated (55%), frustrated (65%), irritable and cranky (65%), prefer to be alone (62%), and tired (74%). Two symptoms identified in more than 50% in sample A but not in sample B included: angry and racing thoughts. Conclusions: DLDE is a pleomorphic mood disorder with symptoms of depression, anxiety and irritability. These 11 items are being evaluated for the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. (Supported by Glaxo-Smith-Kline.) 1,2 Ana Lucia Andrade Noronha, 2 Moacir Alves Borges, 2 Lucia Neves Marques, 4 Dirce Trevisan Zanetta, 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 5 Hanneke De Boer, 6 Javier Espindola, 6 Claudio Miranda, 7 Josemir W. Sander, 8 Leonid Prilipko, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, Faculty of Medicine - UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 2 EDUCATION, ASPE, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 3 Neurology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 4 Epidemiology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 5 Secretariat, Global Campaign Against Epilepsy ; 6 Pan-American Health Organization ; 7 Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom ; and 8 World Health Organization, Switzerland ) Rationale: The worldwide prevalence of epilepsy has been estimated to be around 10/1,000; however, the access to treatment is quite variable. Many people go untreated, particularly in resource poor countries, which may add to the cumulative prevalence of epilepsy in these countries. This study had an objective to estimate the prevalence of epilepsy and the proportion of people not receiving adequate treatment in different socio-economic classes in Brazil, a resource poor country. Methods: We conducted a door-to-door community survey to assess the prevalence and treatment gap of epilepsy (corrected for socio-economic status) in three areas of two cities (Campinas and S?o José do Rio Preto[SJRP]) in the southeast of Brazil. The total population studied in these three areas was 96,300 people. We applied a validated epidemiological questionnaire with sensitivity 95.8% and specificity 97.8% for epilepsy screening, and a neurologist further ascertained the positive cases. We applied a validated questionnaire based on household possessions inventory for socio-economic classification that ranges from Class A (highest) to E (lowest). We defined adequate epilepsy treatment as regular use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) at standard dosage. Results: The cumulative prevalence was 9.1/1,000 people. The estimated prevalence of active epilepsy was 5.3/1,000 people. The prevalence of active epilepsy was higher in the more deprived social classes in Campinas (Class D+E = 8.1/1,000 [95%CI = 4.4?11.9] vs. Class A = 1.6/1,000 [0.4?2.9]) and in SJRP (Class D+E = 7.3/1,000 [5.7?8.9] vs. Class B = 3.1/1,000 [1.5?4.7]). Thirty-seven percent of patients with active epilepsy had inadequate treatment, including 19% who were not on any medication; the figures were similar in the different socio-economic groups. Conclusions: The prevalence of epilepsy in Brazil is similar to other resource-poor countries, and the treatment gap is high. We studied the differences in the social classes for prevalence and treatment gap, and the poorer classes had higher prevalence than the richest ones, while treatment gap is similar. Commitment of the health system towards improvement of the quality of health management for people with epilepsy and consistent and regular AED supply is needed. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Roy C. Martin, 1 Russell H. Fushee, 1 Edward Faught, 1 Robert C. Knowlton, and 1 Laura K. Vogtle ( 1 Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: Driving restrictions play a central role in the quality of life in patients with epilepsy (PWE). Neurologists as well as other physician groups bear considerable responsibility for decisions about driving privileges in PWE. However, little is known about how neurologist's attitudes compare to other physician groups. The purpose of this survey was to compare practices and beliefs across physician subspecialties that treat PWE. Methods: A sample of 209 physicians (Neurologists = 56; non-neurologists (NN) = Family Practice and Internal Medicine physicians = 133 and Other/unspecified = 20) completed a 28-item survey related to driving issues and epilepsy. Surveys were completed through fax technology that met IRB approval. A random geographic sampling of 1400 physicians, obtained through a commercial provider, were faxed the survey. A 19% response rate was achieved. Some neurologists completed the survey during a regional epilepsy conference (21 of 48 conference attendees). Results: All practitioners treated PWE and nearly 100% of those surveyed felt driving should be allowed with seizure control. Both groups felt that 6 months seizure-free was an appropriate limit for reinstatement of driving privileges. NNs were more likely to oppose allowing people with uncontrolled seizures to drive (99% vs. 92%; p < .01). NNs were more likely to oppose people with uncontrolled seizures having driver's licenses when the seizures did not result in the loss of consciousness (85% vs. 61%; p < .001), when seizures occurred nocturnally (72% vs. 45%; p < .001), and more likely to agree that states should set a minimum time for PWE to be seizure free before allowing a driver's license (96% vs. 80%; p < .005). NNs were more likely to support mandatory reporting of patient seizure information to state motor vehicle departments (90% vs. 36%; p < .001). Neurologists were more likely to have had PWE report an automobile accident due to a seizure, (72% vs. 33%; p < .001), more likely to have suspected that PWEs had an unreported automobile accident due to a seizure (60% vs. 39%; p < .01), and to have had PWE give justifications for having to drive (75% vs. 58%; p < .05). Conclusions: Neurologists and NNs expressed several similar opinions regarding the importance of physician assistance in evaluating driving issues in PWE and the need for driving restrictions under certain circumstances. However, they differed in terms of specific areas including mandatory reporting and obtaining a drivers license under certain conditions. Although neurologists have had more patients involved in automobile accidents, NNs were generally more restrictive in their support for driving by PWE. This survey highlights the need for continued epilepsy-specific education outreach efforts directed at the non-neurology medical community. (Supported by the Special Interest Project from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention awarded through the UAB Center for Health Promotion.) 1 Louise Mc Quaid, 1 Colin Doherty, 1 Tony Kenny, 1 Norman Delanty, and 1 Mary Fitzsimons ( 1 Epilepsy Programme, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland ) Rationale: Electronic health (eHealth) services have the potential to enhance epilepsy care by improving integration of health services. Electronic patient records (EPR) provide basic infrastructure for eHealth services. An EPR supports pre-service, point-of-service and after-service enhancements for all stakeholders ? patients and their carers, clinicians, health researchers and healthcare managers. EPR's facilitate the continuity of patient care both within and across healthcare organisation boundaries as simultaneous and/or remote access by multiple users is possible. Data protection and security is enhanced with an audit trail of all accesses to the record which is role-based and limited to authorised and authenticated users. An EPR supports health service monitoring, planning, and health research as it provides ready access to large volumes of integrated, harmonised and consistent patient data. While the potential benefits of EPR's are clear, their design, development and implementation represent a socio-technical challenge. The epilepsy programme at Beaumont Hospital aims to design, develop and implement a standards based secure EPR to support epilepsy clinical services and research activities. Methods: System design involved a qualitative study to determine user and domain requirements, data protection, security and training requirements, and to inform software engineers. Study subjects included potential users of the EPR ? epileptologists, NCHDs, epilepsy nurses and the epilepsy clinic administrator. Data collection Multi-stage interviews following a Delphi technique were conducted with potential users; ethnographic fieldwork was conducted to observe users in the environment where the EPR will be used. Results: Data collected were used to establish the granularity of field requirements for the EPR; process-mapping was conducted to illustrate the workflows that the EPR would support; a set of use-cases, or sequence of transactions, required for effective interaction between users and the EPR was determined The technical development of the EPR is based on international healthcare standards. It has two components, one which manages generic patient information and one that manages epilepsy specific information. The system architecture can therefore be applied to develop EPRs for the management of other diseases. Conclusions: The epilepsy EPR development is at an advanced stage. 16 of 30 use cases are complete. User acceptance testing commenced in April 2005 and we expect roll-out of phase 1 to the epilepsy out-patient service at Beaumont Hospital in Summer 2005. In this presentation we will demonstrate our experience with the project to date and the first phase EPR user interfaces. Building on this infrastructure we aim to further enhance the care of epilepsy patients by providing remote access to the EPR to healthcare professionals in other settings and to authorised patients. (Supported by the Irish Health Research Board.) 1 Mary T. McCole, 2 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 2 John O. Elliott ( 1 Critical Care Department, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Individuals with epilepsy always seek to know more about their condition. Parents of children with epilepsy and young people with epilepsy want to know if their condition is likely to remit or worsen. Young adults eventually become concerned about the possible hereditary impact epilepsy may have upon future offspring. In this study an individual with epilepsy, without training in genetics or medical research, endeavored to identify all family members with epilepsy. Methods: The index subject, an American female of Irish Catholic descent, identified herself. She was aware that epilepsy ran in her family. She subsequently researched the family history of epilepsy by interviewing living relatives. The fact that epilepsy occurred in multiple generations was found when the subject began exploring her family history. The index subject trained herself in genealogical research by following the recommendations of others who had done the same, as well as reviewing multiple records relevant to her family tree. Oral histories provided most of the information. All research was done in the US. Results: Genealogic research identified 5 generations with epilepsy in this family. Epilepsy could be traced back to the index subject's paternal grandparents (generation 1 G1). Epilepsy was clearly traced to the paternal grandfather's maternal family, although the grandmother seemed to have more knowledge than expected for seizure disorders. Grandparents were from the same county in Ireland but not cconsanguineous. They may have been denied immigration to the US by disclosing an illness such as epilepsy; however, neither were never known to have seizures. In the 2nd generation (G2) 1of 8 and 7 of 26 in generation 3 (G3) had seizures. All individuals but one in G2 married subjects of Irish heritage. All G3 subjects married non-Irish. In G4, 1of 45 had seizures. Of 9 G5 subjects, none have yet to develop seizures. While absence seizures were reported, the primary seizure type is tonic-clonic, with typical onset at age 8 and no onset later than 15. Epilepsy is mild; some individuals outgrew epilepsy. This research also identified three 2nd cousins; one each for G2, G3  however, one child was not able to go to school because of his condition. Two adults were currently unemployed because of their uncontrolled seizures. Results: The verbatim transcriptions were treated as a database. Data were analyzed by two investigators to identify themes. Each investigator independently identified the themes and listed the statements that supported that theme. The investigators then met to discuss each theme and supporting statements and 100% agreement was reached. Four themes with subthemes evolved from the parent data: Difficulties/Struggles/Problems (Navigating the health care system, Being an advocate, Trajectory of disorder and what to expect from health care professionals, Family role changes); Helpful at the beginning (Time to process, Access to doctors and nurses); Helpful now (Information: building on existing knowledge, Support); and Fears, Needs and Concerns (Interference with growth and development, Prognosis, Unpredictability/uncertainty). Two themes evolved from the child data: Talking at my level and Feeling different than others. Conclusions: Findings from this study provide direction for health care professionals working with children and their families. It is evident that much attention needs to be directed to assessing informational and emotional support needs during the diagnostic process. It appears equally important that ongoing assessment is necessary as chidlren and parents have continuing needs beyond the initial encounter. Future research is needed to develop educational interventions that address these concerns and needs for both children and their parents. (Supported by Center for Enhancing Quality of Life in Chronic Illness, Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis, IN, 46202.) 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Sally L. Hanson, 1 Chris D. Tollefson, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Joseph I. Sirven, 1 Michael C. Roarke, and 1 Deborah L. Shulman ( 1 Neurology/Nuclear Radiology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Many medical centers with epilepsy monitoring units (EMU), are performing ictal brain scintigraphy (SPECT). In order to produce accurate SPECT images, the injection of radiopharmaceutical (tracer) must occur during the seizure. After the onset of a seizure, the preferred maximum amount of time allowed for injecting the isotope is 90 seconds with less than 30 seconds being optimal. The medical personnel in closest proximity to the patient during seizure onset is the registered nurse (RN). Injection of the radioactive tracer by the RN may be the best way to ensure an optimally timed ictal injection. State radiation regulatory agencies are often reluctant to grant permission to perform these injections to allied health personnel outside of the Nuclear Medicine department. We will describe our RN safety education program and competency assessment program at Mayo Clinic Arizona (MCA). Methods: The Arizona Radiation Regulatory Agency (ARRA) controls the use of all radiopharmaceuticals. MCA has a broad scope radioactive material license from the ARRA. ARRA granted approval to deliver the injection of radiopharmaceuticals for this procedure, provided that an education module and competency assessment were developed for the RNs at MCA working in the EMU. Certified Nuclear Medicine Technologists (CNMTs) and the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) provided initial education (January 2003) for these RNs. Advisory opinions posted by the Arizona State Board of Nursing had previously established that RNs were able to inject IV contrast medium for diagnostic studies such as computed tomography. Results: A total of 15 RNs were present for the initial training which involved viewing a radiation safety video, reading and verbalizing understanding of the unit specific ictal radiopharmaceutical injection policy. A performance criteria sheet was completed as each RN demonstrated the correct performance of these injections. The initial class was approximately one hour. All 26 EMU RNs completed the same education requirements described above. All RNs (100%) met the competency requirement. This competency is reinforced and revalidated during annual unit based education, which is mandatory for all RNs. During annual competencies RNs are not required to view the radiation video again, however, they are required to demonstrate understanding of the policy as well as correct performance of the injection and handling of the radioactive material. Conclusions: Despite regulatory deterrents to the procedure, EMU RNs play an important role in the injection of ictal SPECT scan patients at MCA. Through a dedicated radiation safety education and competency assessment, EMU RNs can aquire the knowledge and skills necessary for the safe and rapid injection of the radiopharmaceutical during a seizure event. 1 Christine O'Dell, 1 David Masur, 2 Anne T. Berg, 1 Maryana Sigalova, 1 Rochelle C. Ledgister, and 1 Shlomo Shinnar ( 1 Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; and 2 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ) Rationale: To determine the frequency of the utilization of special educational services in children who present with a first unprovoked seizure. Methods: In a prospective study, 407 children age one month to 19 years (mean age 6.8 years) with a first unprovoked seizure were recruited and then followed for a mean of 14.4 years. A structured interview was conducted > 10 years after the initial seizure which included questions about education. Educational data were available in 325 (80%) cases and in 101 sibling controls. Results: In the overall cohort, 129 (40%) of the subjects and 23 (23%) of the controls in this predominantly inner city cohort had either received any special educational services including resource room or repeated a grade (SpEd group) at some point (p < 0.002). Limiting the analysis to cases with cryptogenic or idiopathic etiology, 85 (33%) of 259 cases compared to 23 (23%) controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.06). Among these 259 cases, 42 (28%) of 152 children who only had one seizure were in the SpEd group compared with 25 (32%) of 79 children with a total of 2 to 9 seizures and 18 (64%) of 28 children with 10 or more seizures over the duration of the study (p = 0.0007). Comparing the children with a cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and only one seizure to the controls, 28% of 152 cases and 23% of controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.39). On the other hand, 40% of 107 children with cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and recurrent seizures were in the SpEd group which was significantly higher than the control group (p = 0.007). Conclusions: Children with recurrent seizures have a higher rate of receiving special educational services than children who present with a single unprovoked seizure or than sibling controls. This is particularly true of those with 10 or more seizures. However, children with a single unprovoked seizure who do not recur have a similar profile of educational needs as controls. These data provide further support for the favorable outcome of children with a single unprovoked seizure. (Supported by NIH grant NS 26151 from NINDS.) 1,4,5 Rosemary J. Panelli, 1 Susan M. Moore, 2 Christine Kilpatrick, 2 Zelko Matkovic, 3 Wendyl D'souza, and 2,3,4 Terence J. O'Brien ( 1 Life and Social Sciences, Swinburne University ; 2 Department of Neurology, Royal Melbourne Hospital ; 3 Department of Neurology, The Alfred ; 4 Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne ; and 5 Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Research suggests that patients with epilepsy are at risk of negative psychosocial effects. This longitudinal study followed a cohort of First Seizure Clinic patients over 12 months to compare psychosocial outcomes of those patients diagnosed with seizures and those who were not. Methods: Following a suspected first seizure, adults with no known prior diagnosis of epilepsy were grouped into four broad diagnostic categories: provoked or single seizures (33.5%), epilepsy (35.5%), syncope (14.3%), or other (18.8%). Self-report questionnaires were completed at the first visit (n = 245), 3 months (n = 156), and 12 months (n = 93). Measures included the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), a perception of general health question, a satisfaction with treatment scale, and a perceived stigma scale. Results: In 245 participants the mean age was 37 years (SD 16) and 65% were male. Anxiety and depression rates did not differ significantly between the four diagnostic groups. However, there was a strong relationship between mood and levels of perceived general health. Patients with the poorest perception of their general health had anxiety and depression levels significantly higher than patients with high levels of perceived general health at all time points (all p < 0.001, one way ANOVA). Satisfaction with treatment also did not vary between diagnostic groups, but was correlated with mood. Low treatment satisfaction was associated with high levels of anxiety and depression: 3 months (anxiety: r = .35, p < 0.001; depression: r = .29, p < 0.01); 12 months (anxiety: r = .27, p < 0.05, depression: r = .24, p < 0.05). There was no difference between the perceived stigma scores of the four diagnostic categories. However, perceived stigma was strongly correlated with anxiety and depression: baseline (anxiety: r = .60; depression: r = .52); 3 months (anxiety: r = .55; depression: r = .55); 12 months (anxiety: r = .47; depression: r = .43); (all p < 0.001). Conclusions: First Seizure Clinic patients diagnosed with seizures do not appear to be at higher risk of affective disturbances or perceived stigma in the first 12 months, than those who are not diagnosed with seizures. Mood is a stronger indicator of patient well-being than diagnosis and this needs to be considered in patient management. (Supported by Australian Research Council and the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria.) 1 Sharon Penney, 1 Maureen Robertson, 1 Jackie Martini, 1 Thea Dupras, 1 Nancy Thornton, 1 Corinne McMillan, 1 Arlene Sadownyk, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Pediatrics, Janeway Child Health Centre, St John, NL, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Informal surveys reveal that in Canada (2003) there are no more than two dozen nurses working part or full-time in epilepsy. Three large Canadian provinces have no access to epilepsy nurses. We conducted a survey to assess the perceived role and value of specialized epilepsy nurses in the out-patient and in-patient setting. Methods: This was a cross-sectional survey involving epileptologists and epilepsy clinic patients across Canada. Epilepsy centers were identified from previous census. Physicians and patients answered a ten-item questionnaire. Physicians were asked about dedicated funding for epilepsy nurses, availability at their centre, specific roles, and a rating of importance of specialized epilepsy nurses. Patients were asked about type of interaction with the epilepsy nurse, perception of helpfulness and satisfaction, as well as health care setting. The project was approved by the internal Ethics Review Board. Results: At the time of this submission, 17 centres had replied, 41% had dedicated funding for a total of 25 epilepsy nurses. Their roles were multiple: 25?100% of their activities were clinical, 5?40% research and 5?30% purely inpatient. Seventy-six percent of the nurses were involved in educational activities, 65% were involved specialized seizure monitoring units, 58% were involved in coordinating pre-surgical evaluation, and 82% were involved in other patient care areas. All centers rated the role of the epilepsy nurse as highly important (7/7). At the time of this report, 92 patients replied. Ninety-six percent had contact with an epilepsy nurse, either directly, over the telephone or both. The most commonly reported benefit was enhancing communication between patients and neurologists (91%), understanding anti-seizure drugs (62%) and understanding epilepsy (54%). In addition, nurses assisted patients cope with epilepsy. Seventy-five percent (75%) rated this as 5/7 or higher, and 80% were highly satisfied with nursing intervention (5/7 or higher). Conclusions: There is a need for an increased role of dedicated epilepsy nurses at all levels of epilepsy care. Both physicians and patients rated patient education, assistance with care and organizational aspects as highly valuable. Unfortunately, many patients with epilepsy do not have access to this valuable resource. 1 Lena K.A. Räty, 2 Birgitta A. Söderfeldt, and 1 Bodil M. Wilde Larsson ( 1 Department of Nursing Science, Division for Health and Caring Sciences, Karlstad, Sweden ; and 2 Department of Neuroscience and Locomotion, Division of Neurology, Linköping, Sweden ) Rationale: The aim was to study the development of the epilepsy condition during adolescence and to identify factors that are of significant importance to achieve optimal psychosocial well-being and seizure-freedom or seizure reduction in adulthood. A further aim was to study quality of life in young adults. Methods: In 1999 151 adolescents (13 - 22 years) with epilepsy answered questionnaires on quality of life focusing on self-esteem, psychosocial and medical aspects. In 2004 a follow-up study was carried out with questionnaires mainly identical to those used in 1999. One questionnaire regarding quality of life (QLI) was added. The answering rate was 70%. No significant differences were found between participants and dropouts regarding variables measured 1999. Results: At present results regarding psychosocial factors and quality of life have been preliminary analysed. Compared with 1999 males reported a lower psychosocial well-being (p = 0.009) at the follow-up in 2004. The differences were most evident in patients aged 18?20 (?22) years. The lowest scores were reported on the sense of coherence, representing confidence in life by measuring manageability, comprehensiveness and meaning (p = 0.01). As five years ago the participants reported a positive self-esteem, however somewhat lower compared with the general population. The lowest quality of life was reported in the psychological/spiritual area and highest in relation to the family. Conclusions: The result indicates that psychosocial well-being, especially regarding the sense of coherence could be age-related in males with epilepsy, with the lowest point at 18 ? 20 years of age. 1 Maureen Robertson, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Although epilepsy has a high prevalence, misconceptions and lack of knowledge among the public are problematic. Grade XII students are at the brink of adulthood. This is an impressionable age when lifetime attitudes are often formed. We evaluated the effect of a structured educational intervention about epilepsy in this age group. Methods: Seventy grade XII students engage annually in one-day field trips with lectures and demonstrations by specialized epilepsy professionals, following a classroom education session on the brain. Pre-intervention (day before) and post-intervention (within 2?3 days), identical questionnaires were administered. Questionnaires contained 21 questions assessing general knowledge about epilepsy, attitudinal aspects, and personal knowledge of people with epilepsy. Sample questions include: ?Is epilepsy a form of mental illness?,??People who have epilepsy should not go out in public places in case they might have a seizure (True/False),??What should you do if you see a person you know having a seizure?? Results: In 2002 the average correct pre-test and post-test response rate was 65% and 87%, respectively. In 2005 the average correct pre-intervention and post-intervention response rate was 49% and 70% respectively (mean difference of 22.4 points, p < 0.001). Therefore knowledge and attitudes improved by this structured educational intervention. Free text analysis of written feedback by students revealed improved attitudes and empathy for people with epilepsy. Conclusions: Epilepsy centers can serve important educational functions in society, an often neglected activity in such specialized units. Educational interventions in epilepsy are meaningful and effective in adolescence. 1 Cheryl P. Shore, 2 Susan M. Perkins, and 1 Joan K. Austin ( 1 Nursing, Indiana University/Purdue University Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 Division of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Previous research suggests that children with epilepsy and their parents experience stressors related to the child's health condition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the Seizures and Epilepsy Education (SEE) program on quality of life, seizure condition management, and health care costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. Methods: A quasi-experimental design was used. Each participant served as his or her control. Most participants were referred by a school nurse or physician. Children were eligible to participate if they were at least 12 years of age, had a diagnosis of epilepsy, and could attend with at least one parent. Parents of children younger than 12 were also eligible to attend. Participants attended the SEE program, a two-day intensive psychoeducational program including content on medical and social aspects of epilepsy. Participants completed instruments to measure the variables of interest prior to program attendance, 4 weeks after attending, and 6 months after attendance. Statistical analysis was completed using SAS Version 9.1. Repeated measures ANCOVA, McNemar's tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were utitlized. Results: Representatives of 17 families participated. Parents significantly improved on many variables both 4 weeks and 6 months after program attendance. Outcomes with continued improvement 6 months after the program included parental perceptions of child behavior, child mental health, and family activities. Parents also demonstrated improved knowledge of epilepsy, less worry about the seizure condition, and had fewer unmet needs for information. Parents reported fewer nonscheduled health care visits and fewer child absences from school after SEE program attendance. Children's scores that remained significantly improved six months after the program included perceptions of their behavior, mental health, self-esteem, and family activities. Children maintained significantly lower levels of depressive symptoms and fewer fears about epilepsy six months after program attendance. Conclusions: The SEE program resulted in significant differences in quality of life indicators, measures of seizure condition management, and health care and related costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. The results are consistent with those from a previous study with adult participants (Helgeson et al., Epilepsia 1990; 31; 75?82). Health care providers can recommend the SEE program and reasonably expect that attendance will result in improved quality of life and seizure condition management. (Supported by The Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of Shire US, Inc.) 1 Deborah L. Shulman, 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Joseph I. Sirven ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, Mesa ) Rationale: Telephone triage is a major part of the role of the epilepsy nurse coordinator. Some calls are from patients, while others are received by a spouse or parent. A large portion of these calls includes: reporting seizures, requesting lab results, and difficulties with medications. Many times instructions are given to adjust medications based on lab results, seizures, or side effects reported. On many occasions the person calling is asked to call back and let us know how they are doing in relation to the instructions given. Unfortunately we do not always receive a call back with this information. Are family members more responsible than patients about calling back? A tracking system to follow up with patients on a timely basis when we did not hear back from them was initiated. This is important in order to improve health outcomes from interventions. Methods: The epilepsy coordinator is responsible for all phone calls for a team of 2 neurologists. All calls received during regular business hours were documented prospectively over a two-week period noting, 1. who called, 2. the purpose of the call, and 3. any directions that were given. All calls pertained to individuals with epilepsy. We did not include calls related to medication refill requests, appointments, scheduling monitoring admissions or calls that did not request a return call. We tabulated the number of calls from family members versus patients, and which group responded to the request to call back. Our intent was to establish better communication with all our patients and to identify which group required more of an effort to establish consistent and reliable communication. Results: A total of 37 phone calls were analyzed with 13 calls for medication problems, 10 to report seizures and 14 for test results. 46% of calls received were by family members and 54% by a patient. Phone calls for test results that led to medication changes represented the largest return rate of calls as instructed with 38% from the family group and 36% from the patients. 50% of families were likely to call back, while 52% of the patients did not. An equal number of spouses called, however, 40% of wives called back versus 20% of husbands. There were more telephone calls from females with a return rate of 55% versus 38% of males that returned calls. 3 out of the 5 calls received from parents were not returned. When we called patients we did not hear from, some stated they planned on calling but they ?did not want to be a bother.? Conclusions: It is important to know how patients are doing after therapy changes. The development of a tracking chart will enable us to reach out to each patient in a timely manner when they do not call back as instructed. Ensuring that health care provider recommendations are completed is essential to improve health outcomes. 1,2 Debbie Terry, 1,3 Juliann Paolicchi, and 1 Mary Karn ( 1 Neurology, Columbus Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH ; 2 Nursing, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; and 3 Pediatrics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy are frequently prescribed diazepam rectal gel for the acute treatment of seizures. In addition to home use, parents have asked other caregivers in day care and school settings to administer diazepam rectal gel. Parents have reported resistance and refusal by schools or day care providers to administer diazepam rectal gel. This may have a significant impact on the child's well being and the child and family's quality of life. The purpose of this study was to identify the frequency with which parents of children with epilepsy experience barriers to the use of diazepam rectal gel in daycare or school settings, what those barriers are, and what the impact is on the child and family. Methods: This was a prospective study conducted in a comprehensive epilepsy clinic. During a six month period, parents of children birth to 18 years were screened to participate in the study. Parents of children previously prescribed diazepam rectal gel were asked to complete an 18 item questionnaire. Results: Of 218 parents screened, 86 qualified for the study and 64 agreed to participate. Of the 64 parents who completed the questionnaire, 43 (68%) had asked their school or daycare to administer diazepam rectal gel. Overall, of those 43 parents, 35 (81%) reported that the school or day care agreed and 8 (19%) reported they refused to give diazepam rectal gel. Of these 43 parents, 16 (37%) asked MRDD schools of which 15 (94%) agreed and 1 (6%) refused; 21 (49%) asked public schools of which 17 (81%) agreed and 4 (19%) refused; and 6 (14%) asked private schools of which 3 (50%) agreed and 3 (50%) refused. There was a statistically significant difference in the responses between MRDD and private schools (p = .028). Reasons for refusal were: 5 (62%) not legally allowed to give diazepam rectal gel, 2 (25%) reasons were unknown, 2 (25%) worry that school staff would not know when to give the medication, 2 (25%) fear of embarrassing the child, and 1 (12.5%) fear of not being able to learn how to give the medication. Of the 8 parents whose school or day care refused to give diazepam rectal gel, 3 (42%) parents reported no effect on their family, but 3 (42%) parents worried their child would be hurt by a seizure, 1 (12.5%) parent kept her child at home, and 1 (12.5%) parent went to school with her child. Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that the majority of children prescribed diazepam rectal gel do not encounter barriers to its use in school and day care settings. However, children in private schools are significantly more likely to encounter barriers than are children in MRDD programs. The most frequently stated reason for refusal of the school or day care to give diazepam rectal gel was legal concerns. When schools refuse to give diazepam rectal gel, the quality of life of the child and family can be significantly impacted. 1 Rupprecht Thorbecke, 1 Ulrich Specht, 1 Joachim Czisch, and 2 Theodor W. May ( 1 Rehabilitation Unit, EvKB, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 2 Society for Epilepsy Research, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: A follow-up evaluation of patients of a specialized rehabilitation unit for people with epilepsy showed significant improvements for epilepsy related fear, emotional adaptation, physical and emotional health, however only weak effects for perceived stigma (PS) (3). Using data from the same cohort, this study aims to get more insight into the association of clinical, neuropsychological and psychosocial variables with PS. Methods: Ninety-six consecutive non-surgical patients with epilepsy (mean age, 35 years, 66% male) completed a validated questionnaire (PESOS) before admission (2, 3). PESOS includes a 4 item PS scale. During the rehabilitation program, all patients underwent comprehensive epileptological, neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluation. Associations between PS and clinical respectively psychosocial variables were tested with univariate methods (p < .05, two tailed). Results: Mean duration of epilepsy was 17.5 years. 24% of the patients were seizure-free (>6 months) on admission. 75% of the patients reported more or less pronounced PS. There were strong relations between PS and emotional adaptation, self esteem, and perceived restrictions because of one's epilepsy (all, p < .01). No association between PS and psychiatric co-morbidity or partnership was found. However PS was higher in patients with early onset of epilepsy, neuropsychological deficits or epilepsy related fears. Patients holding a driving license felt less stigmatized than those who did not. There were however no differences between patients who were actually driving/not driving because of their epilepsy. PS was associated with difficulties to address one's epilepsy when being with other persons, and with the number of friends and frequency of contacts. Conclusions: Our findings are in accordance with the literature, showing that PS is a common finding in chronic epilepsy, with strong associations of PS with emotional variables however only weak associations with seizure frequency (1). They underline the importance of holding a driving license and also of neuropsychological deficits for PS. Finally they demonstrate clearly that PS is associated with social isolation. REFERENCES 1.?Jacoby A. Epilepsy Behav 3, 6S2 (2002) S10?S20. 2.?May TW, et al. PESOS-Fragebogen fuer Menschen mit Epilepsie. Z Epileptol 2004;17(4):287?300. 3.?Specht U., et al. Epilepsia 2004;45 Suppl 7: 57 ( Supported by the society for epilepsy research , Bielefeld , Germany .) 1 Michael J. Wierzbinski, and 2 Paul C. Van Ness ( 1 Medicine Services/Epilepsy Outreach Program, Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX ; and 2 Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: About 25% of adult epilepsy patients have intractable seizures. Many are unable to work or retain a job due to seizures and other co-morbidities. Patients may apply for federal governmental assistance since they are unable to work. They apply thorough the Social Security Administration for one of two programs. One, is Social Supplemental Income (SSI) and or Social Security Disability Income (SSDI), the later if they have a consistent work history. After applying for disability it may take several years before benefits are approved. Additional information would be helpful to find out what variables may determine the time it may take for a positive ruling of disability for a patient's claim. Methods: Chart reviews and telephone interviews were conducted on 25 adult patients from an indigent, urban county hospital who were felt to be disabled. Patients who consistently attended an epilepsy clinic, report having seizures, and have applied for governmental disability benefits were included. Results: Disability information was obtained from 25 patients. 75% of the case had seizure onset before age 20. 36% of the patients had generalized tonic clonic seizures and 32% had generalized seizures along with complex partial seizures. 75% of the patients had a diagnostic EEG that confirmed their epilepsy diagnosis. 40% of the patients had other co-morbidities. 28% had a psychiatric diagnosis. 60% either had cognitive deficits or were diagnosed with borderline IQ and/or mental retardation. 50% had no work history and or a limited work history. Most were over the age of 40 and were minorities. At least, 60% of the patients had previously applied for benefits at least one other time. 30% of the patients who applied for SSI/SSDI were approved for disability within one year of application. 70% who applied for disability had to wait one to three years before they were approved. Conclusions: Applying for disability thorough the Social Security Administration is complex, confusing, and time consuming. Most patients in this study required assistance in applying for disability from an attorney or social worker. Some patients have filed multiple times for disability. Many are denied disability initially despite eventual approval. Several cases were told that they could work despite the physician's opinion. The wait has many psychosocial implications. Some patients give up trying to obtain disability and depend upon family for financial assistance. Finally, several patients had their disability claim turned down by disability attorneys/representatives. The later did not want to represent the patient's disability claim. There was no one to assist them thorough this process except their social worker. (Supported by Epilepsy Outreach Program is funded by a grant from the Department of State Health Services (Texas).)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reynolds, Lucy
AU  - McKee, Martin
TI  - Serve the people or close the sale? Profit-driven overuse of injections and infusions in China's market-based healthcare system
JO  - The International Journal of Health Planning and Management
JA  - Int J Health Plann Mgmt
VL  - 26
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hpm.1112
DO  - doi:10.1002/hpm.1112
SP  - 449
EP  - 470
KW  - China
KW  - utilisation
KW  - health financing
PY  - 2011
AB  - SUMMARY Treatment by injection or infusion is widespread in China. Using the common cold as a tracer condition, we explored the reasons for over-prescription of injections and infusions in Guizhou, China. Interviews with prescribers, patients and key informants were supplemented by focus groups. These revealed how historical ideas encourage unnecessary use of percutaneous treatment: faith in the healing power of needles is locally attributed to association with acupuncture. Many patients and some staff believe that injections per se are therapeutic. However, the structure of health service financing and remuneration now reinforces this irrational faith. Market-based reforms have attempted to control costs and increase productivity with an incentive scheme which rewards prescribers financially for over-prescription in general and for use of injections and infusions in particular. Aggressive marketing has displaced oral treatment from health facilities into independent pharmacies, leaving doctors functioning mainly as injection providers. There is a need for a multi-faceted response encompassing education and reform of financial incentives to reduce the use of unnecessary treatment. Copyright ? 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lebaschi, Amir
AU  - Nakagawa, Yusuke
AU  - Wada, Susumu
AU  - Cong, Guang-Ting
AU  - Rodeo, Scott A.
TI  - Tissue-specific endothelial cells: a promising approach for augmentation of soft tissue repair in orthopedics
JO  - Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences
JA  - Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci.
VL  - 1410
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nyas.13575
DO  - doi:10.1111/nyas.13575
SP  - 44
EP  - 56
KW  - endothelial cell
KW  - angiocrine factor
KW  - regeneration
KW  - tendon
KW  - ligament
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Biologics are playing an increasingly significant role in the practice of modern medicine and surgery in general and orthopedics in particular. Cell-based approaches are among the most important and widely used modalities in orthopedic biologics, with mesenchymal stem cells and other multi/pluripotent cells undergoing evaluation in numerous preclinical and clinical studies. On the other hand, fully differentiated endothelial cells (ECs) have been found to perform critical roles in homeostasis of visceral tissues through production of an adaptive panel of so-called ?angiocrine factors.? This newly discovered function of ECs renders them excellent candidates for novel approaches in cell-based biologics. Here, we present a review of the role of ECs and angiocrine factors in some visceral tissues, followed by an overview of current cell-based approaches and a discussion of the potential applications of ECs in soft tissue repair.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Shilo, Guy
AU  - Antebi, Nadav
AU  - Mor, Zohar
TI  - Individual and Community Resilience Factors Among Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Queer and Questioning Youth and Adults in Israel
JO  - American Journal of Community Psychology
VL  - 55
IS  - 1-2
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1007/s10464-014-9693-8
DO  - doi:10.1007/s10464-014-9693-8
SP  - 215
EP  - 227
KW  - Community
KW  - Israel
KW  - LGBQ
KW  - Mental health
KW  - Resilience
KW  - Youth
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Drawing on resilience theories, this study examined the individual and community factors of Israeli lesbians, gays, bisexuals, queers, and questioning (LGBQs) that contribute to positive mental health and the degree to which individual and community protective factors mitigate the adverse effect of risk factors for poor mental health. Differences in resilience factors between LGBQ youth and adults were explored. Data were collected on 890 LGBQ youth and adults. Findings emphasize the role of community-level resilience factors in the lives of LGBQs, and that these support systems differ slightly between the two age groups. Among youth, family support was both a strong predictor for well-being and a protective factor for mental distress. Although family support was found as a resilience factor among adults as well, other community-level factors (friends? support, LGBT connectedness and having steady partner) were found as protective factors for poorer mental health. These findings suggest for efforts on fostering familial support for LGBQ youth and a multi-level system that offers support at the familial, peer, relationship and community levels for both LGBQ youth and adults.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Glaser, Markus
AU  - Miecznik, Bert
TI  - TRIZ for Reverse Inventing in Market Research: A Case Study from WITTENSTEIN AG, Identifying New Areas of Application of a Core Technology
JO  - Creativity and Innovation Management
VL  - 18
IS  - 2
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8691.2009.00516.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1467-8691.2009.00516.x
SP  - 90
EP  - 100
PY  - 2009
AB  - Conventional strategic market research is a very expensive method to gain results which are often marked by a high degree of uncertainty. We have developed and tested a cost-effective TRIZ-based concept called ?reverse inventing? for the improvement of this situation. Reverse inventing is a logical process comprising the steps of situation analysis, abstraction of strengths, transformation into searchable queries, comparison with existing knowledge bases such as patent databases, and evaluation of obtained results. The method was used for an opportunity assessment of one of Wittenstein's most distinctive products, namely a system for the controlled prolongation of limbs by means of a dynamic intermedular nail for implantation into the bone marrow of limbs, typically legs. The purpose was to identify further business opportunities for the respective business line, in order to extend its revenue base and growth potential. In the course of this study, several potential business areas could be identified for an approach by this business line. Most of the obtained results were rather surprising and outside the classical search field of market analysis. But they still proved to reveal actual high potential areas for the business line in question. The evaluation was based on an analysis of core business line strengths and a comparison with abstract requirement profiles as identified by patent research. Hence it not only indicated general fields of requirement, but also brought forward concrete names of companies and people to contact. We found the method to be highly effective in providing unexpected but valuable ideas for new market opportunities, which lay beyond our customary search horizon. We suggest the application of this method in search strategies for the identification of additional business segments of an organization. Subsequent to the initial phase of analysis the method has to be complemented by classical tools of market analysis and intelligence. It can be utilized in any technology-driven market, or at least wherever searchable databases, such as patent literature databases, are available for evaluation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Ji, Yang
AU  - Paulsen, Jeffrey
AU  - Zhou, Iris Yuwen
AU  - Lu, Dongshuang
AU  - Machado, Patrick
AU  - Qiu, Bensheng
AU  - Song, Yi-Qiao
AU  - Sun, Phillip Zhe
TI  - In vivo microscopic diffusional kurtosis imaging with symmetrized double diffusion encoding EPI
JO  - Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
JA  - Magn. Reson. Med
VL  - 81
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mrm.27419
DO  - doi:10.1002/mrm.27419
SP  - 533
EP  - 541
KW  - diffusional heterogeneity
KW  - double diffusion encoding
KW  - microscopic DKI
KW  - microscopic kurtosis
KW  - neurological disorders
PY  - 2019
AB  - Purpose Diffusional kurtosis imaging (DKI) measures the deviation of the displacement probability from a normal distribution, complementing the data commonly acquired by diffusion MRI. It is important to elucidate the sources of kurtosis contrast, particularly in biological tissues where microscopic kurtosis (intrinsic kurtosis) and diffusional heterogeneity may co-exist. Methods We have developed a technique for microscopic kurtosis MRI, dubbed microscopic diffusional kurtosis imaging (µDKI), using a symmetrized double diffusion encoding (s-DDE) EPI sequence. We compared this newly developed µDKI to conventional DKI methods in both a triple compartment phantom and in vivo. Results Our results showed that whereas conventional DKI and µDKI provided similar measurements in a compartment of monosphere beads, kurtosis measured by µDKI was significantly less than that measured by conventional DKI in a compartment of mixed Gaussian pools. For in vivo brain imaging, µDKI showed small yet significantly lower kurtosis measurement in regions of the cortex, CSF, and internal capsule compared to the conventional DKI approach. Conclusions Our study showed that µDKI is less susceptible than conventional DKI to sub-voxel diffusional heterogeneity. Our study also provided important preliminary demonstration of our technique in vivo, warranting future studies to investigate its diagnostic use in examining neurological disorders.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Feng, Lei
AU  - Cao, Yuping
AU  - Zhang, Yalin
AU  - Wee, Sin-Tho
AU  - Kua, Ee-Heok
TI  - Psychological therapy with Chinese patients
JO  - Asia-Pacific Psychiatry
JA  - Asia‐Pacific Psychiatry
VL  - 3
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780471914204
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1758-5872.2011.00148.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1758-5872.2011.00148.x
SP  - 167
EP  - 172
KW  - anxiety
KW  - Chinese
KW  - depression
KW  - meditation
KW  - psychotherapy
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract There is a growing interest about psychological therapy and training in Asian countries. However, there is a paucity of information on how psychological therapy is practiced in Asia. In this article, we discussed 3 methods of psychological therapy in the management of anxiety and depression in Chinese patients ? mindfulness meditation, Chinese Taoist cognitive psychotherapy (CTCP) and brief integrative psychological therapy (BIPT). The CTCP for generalized anxiety disorders was a multi-site randomized study conducted in China. It was found that CTCP reduced symptoms more slowly than anxiolytics but the effect of CTCP was still significant at 6-month follow-up. The mindfulness meditation study examined the outcome of a community training program on the management of mild anxiety. We found that overall mental well-being and anxiety symptoms were significantly improved during the period of the training course. The BIPT project was a naturalistic study of elderly people with depression at an outpatient psychiatric clinic. Results from this study indicated that BIPT was as effective although the onset of recovery was slower compared with BIPT combined with an antidepressant. In the 3 methods discussed, cultural issues are explored with affirmation of cultural values and reinforcement of culturally sanctioned coping pattern. Brief therapy and integration are the psychotherapeutic zeitgeist of the 21st century in Asia and we hope that there will be more studies on psychological therapy from different Asian countries in the future.
ER  - 

AU  - Daisley, Audrey
AU  - Webster, Guinevere
C7  - pp. 475-507
TI  - Familial Brain Injury: Impact on and Interventions with Children
SN  - 9781405111676
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444301762.ch19
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444301762.ch19
SP  - 475-507
KW  - familial brain injury on children
KW  - child relatives – the forgotten victims of TBI
KW  - familial TBI – the challenges to children
KW  - developmental considerations in understanding children's reactions to familial TBI
KW  - younger school-aged children and adolescents' and young adults'
KW  - interdisciplinary team working
KW  - familial brain injury and impact on children
KW  - engaging children and assessing their responses to familial TBI
KW  - educational ‘activity group’ intervention for children of brain-injured parents
KW  - child-focused support
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction: Why Focus on Children? The Impact of Familial Brain Injury on Children Interventions for Children Affected by Familial Brain Injury Rehabilitation Clinical Case Examples Process and Practice Issues Summary and Conclusions Recommended Reading References
ER  - 
