
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bulfone-Paus, Silvia
AU  - Paus, Ralf
TI  - Osteopontin as a new player in mast cell biology
JO  - European Journal of Immunology
JA  - Eur. J. Immunol.
VL  - 38
IS  - 2
SN  - 0014-2980
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.200738131
DO  - doi:10.1002/eji.200738131
SP  - 338
EP  - 341
KW  - Allergy
KW  - Cytokines
KW  - IgE
KW  - Mast cells
PY  - 2008
AB  - Abstract The secreted glycoprotein osteopontin (OPN) sets into motion an astounding variety of activities that range from bone remodeling via immunomodulation to the inhibition of apoptosis. In the current issue of the European Journal of Immunology, OPN now also enters mast cell biology and the regulation of IgE-dependent immune responses since it is reported that connective tissue-type mast cells from fetal murine skin constitutively secrete biologically active OPN. Moreover, it is shown that, in vitro, OPN augments IgE-mediated mast cell degranulation and migration via ligand binding to cognate OPN receptors on the mast cell surface (CD44, αv integrin) and that the magnitude of an IgE-mediated passive cutaneous anaphylaxis reaction is augmented by OPN in vivo. Here, we discuss why this newly discovered property of OPN fits well into the emerging concept that OPN may serve as a multi-purpose environmental damage-response protein. See accompanying article: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/eji200737057
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - George, Naijil
AU  - Geller, Herbert M.
TI  - Extracellular matrix and traumatic brain injury
JO  - Journal of Neuroscience Research
JA  - J Neuro Res
VL  - 96
IS  - 4
SN  - 0360-4012
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jnr.24151
DO  - doi:10.1002/jnr.24151
SP  - 573
EP  - 588
KW  - hyaluronan
KW  - laminin
KW  - metalloprotease
KW  - proteoglycans
KW  - tenascin
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract The brain extracellular matrix (ECM) plays a crucial role in both the developing and adult brain by providing structural support and mediating cell-cell interactions. In this review, we focus on the major constituents of the ECM and how they function in both normal and injured brain, and summarize the changes in the composition of the ECM as well as how these changes either promote or inhibit recovery of function following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Modulation of ECM composition to facilitates neuronal survival, regeneration and axonal outgrowth is a potential therapeutic target for TBI treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Serena,             T.
AU  - Li, V.W.
AU  - on behalf of the Wound Healing Cooperative Group
TI  - 145 Interval Analysis of a Randomized, Open Label, Multi-Center Study Comparing Apligraf Vs. Standard Multilayer Compression in the Reduction of Pain Associated WItH Venous Leg Ulcerations
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216aw.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216aw.x
SP  - A28
EP  - A48
PY  - 2005
AB  - Background:? According to The American Pain Society, pain should be considered a fifth vital sign. Pain is a prominent feature of venous leg ulcerations (VLUs). Sixty-five percent of VLU patients complain of severe pain. In several multicenter clinical trials, Apligraf, a bioengineered living skin construct, has been shown to accelerate healing in venous leg ulcerations. Anecdotal clinical observations suggest that Apligraf treatment is associated with pain relief. A treatment modality which promotes healing and reduces pain would significantly improve the quality of life in patients with VLU. Methods:? VLU patients with pain scores greater than 5/10 on a numerical scale or requiring narcotic analgesia were randomized to receive either Apligraf and compression or compression alone. There was a 3-week ?wash-out? period to ensure that pain was not due to other factors such as inadequate compression or infection. Patients were enrolled only after a negative quantitative biopsy. The intensity of pain was self-scored and a quality-of-life questionnaire was completed at each visit. Weekly wound area measurements were obtained with digital planimetry. Results:? Thus far in the enrollment period we have already seen a trend toward a significant reduction in pain in the Apligraf group. This pain relief occurs shortly after application indicating that a mechanism distinct from clinical healing. The Apligraf group also demonstrated acceleration in wound healing as well as a decreased time-to-complete closure. Conclusion:? Interval analysis of this multicenter trial suggests that Apligraf accelerates wound healing and reduces the pain associated with venous leg ulcerations. Acknowledgment:? Unrestricted Educational grant, Organogenesis Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - About, Imad
TI  - Dentin–pulp regeneration: the primordial role of the microenvironment and its modification by traumatic injuries and bioactive materials
JO  - Endodontic Topics
JA  - Endod Topics
VL  - 28
IS  - 1
SN  - 1601-1538
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/etp.12038
DO  - doi:10.1111/etp.12038
SP  - 61
EP  - 89
PY  - 2013
AB  - Understanding dentinogenesis and pulp regeneration during physiological and pathological conditions represents a real challenge in the provision of a suitable treatment that ideally leads to the induction of the pulp regenerative potential. This paper focusses on the early steps of dentin?pulp regeneration that appear to be critical after pulp capping procedures. Different models are described in this paper where the interactions between different cell types in vitro illustrate their role in maintaining pulpal homeostasis. After traumatic injuries, the cells modify the local pulpal microenvironment by secreting growth factors that orchestrate and induce the processes required for dentin?pulp regeneration. Applying dental materials onto the injured pulp modifies this local microenvironment and affects the potential for pulpal regeneration. The paper also describes the added value of developing an entire human tooth culture model for understanding these early steps and discusses the interest of its use in evaluating newly developed pulp capping materials through the example of BiodentineTM, developed as a dentin substitute. The growth factors sustained release simulating the local microenvironment is also discussed. Simulating the pulp local environment with a continuous growth factors release is also a basic requirement for establishing future pulp tissue engineering.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jablonski, Heidrun
AU  - Wedemeyer, Christian
AU  - Rekasi, Heike
AU  - Fietzek, Heiko
AU  - Mertens, Tobias
AU  - Kolb, Max
AU  - Jäger, Marcus
AU  - Kauther, Max D.
C7  - 1801125
TI  - Laser-Induced Nanostructures on Titanium Surfaces as Developed in the Aeronautics and Space Industry Foster Osteoblast Activity and Function In Vitro
JO  - Advanced Materials Interfaces
JA  - Adv. Mater. Interfaces
VL  - 5
IS  - 22
SN  - 2196-7350
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.201801125
DO  - doi:10.1002/admi.201801125
SP  - 1801125
KW  - biocompatibility
KW  - laser irradiation
KW  - mineralization
KW  - nanostructure
KW  - osteoblast
KW  - titanium
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract The stability of orthopedic implants is governed by the interaction between the material's surface and bone cells. Nanosized structures seem to be promising in supporting the osseointegration of total joint replacements. In order to analyze whether nanostructured titanium surfaces, as generated by a short-pulsed Nd:YVO4 laser irradiation process developed in the aeronautics and space industry as a ?cold ablation? process, can be useful for orthopedic applications, their impact on bone cells is evaluated in vitro. Cell spreading and morphology on nanostructured titanium niobium nitride or titanium plasma-sprayed surfaces are comparable to osteoblast behavior on corresponding untreated titanium or cells grown on cover glass. However, on the nanostructured surfaces cell numbers appear to be reduced. Nonetheless, cell viability is not affected by laser pretreatment. Interestingly, osteoblast proliferation on nanostructured titanium is inhibited to the benefit of an increased production of osteoblast-specific proteins such as bone alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, or procollagen. Furthermore, an enhanced mineralization of cells grown on nanostructured surfaces is confirmed in terms of an elevated hydroxyapatite deposition. Laser irradiation leads to an additional nanostructure on microstructured titanium surfaces and might positively affect the biocompatibility and ingrowth of prostheses made from the corresponding biomaterials.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sharma, A.
AU  - Singh, A. K.
AU  - Warren, J.
AU  - Maheshwari, R. K
TI  - 132 Differential Regulation of Osteopontin and Matrix Metalloproteinases During Diabetic Wound Healing
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 12
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractdz.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractdz.x
SP  - A34
EP  - A34
PY  - 2004
AB  - Delayed wound healing is a common complication of diabetes resulting in significant clinical morbidity. The diabetic wound exhibits impaired cellular infiltration and consequently inadequate granulation tissue formation. Additionally, altered patterns of apoptosis. In this study, we have evaluated the differential gene expression pattern in transgenic diabetic female mice, 5?6 weeks old, in a full thickness cutaneous punch wound model. We assessed the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and differential gene expression pattern at 4th, 7th and 11th day post wounding. Supernatants obtained from diabetic wound tissue homogenates were subjected to zymogram analysis. The data showed that MMPs were expressed at higher level by 4th day post wounding, whereas expression of MMPs were down regulated towards the 11th day post wounding suggesting their role during early phase of wound healing. The pathway specific gene array data demonstrated differential regulation of several growth factors, transcription factors and other related genes such as fibroblast growth factors and their receptors, ID3 and restin respectively. The cytokine/extracellular matrix protein osteopontin (OPN), an important component of cellular immunity and inflammation also showed higher expression after 4 days post wounding. The expression of OPN remained at higher level after 11 days post wounding in diabetic mice, whereas the expression were down regulated to basal level in normal wounded animal suggesting that the expression of OPN was concomitant with the extent of healing. Other adhesion molecules such as integrin αV and PECAM-1 were also differentially regulated. Though a single gene may not be solely responsible for any defect or impairment in healing as it is a very tightly controlled and regulated process, however, a detailed study of these gene(s) may shed some light to the delayed healing in diabetic mice. Acknowledgements: (These studies are supported by NIH Grant G174KT.)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Katwa, Pranita
AU  - Wang, Xiaojia
AU  - Urankar, Rakhee N.
AU  - Podila, Ramakrishna
AU  - Hilderbrand, Susana C.
AU  - Fick, Robert B.
AU  - Rao, Apparao M.
AU  - Ke, Pu Chun
AU  - Wingard, Christopher J.
AU  - Brown, Jared M.
TI  - A Carbon Nanotube Toxicity Paradigm Driven by Mast Cells and the IL-33/ST2 Axis
JO  - Small
JA  - Small
VL  - 8
IS  - 18
SN  - 1613-6810
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201200873
DO  - doi:10.1002/smll.201200873
SP  - 2904
EP  - 2912
KW  - IL-33
KW  - ST2
KW  - MWCNTs
KW  - pulmonary fibrosis
KW  - nanotoxicology
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Concern about the use of nanomaterials has increased significantly in recent years due to potentially hazardous impacts on human health. Mast cells are critical for innate and adaptive immune responses, often modulating allergic and pathogenic conditions. Mast cells are well known to act in response to danger signals through a variety of receptors and pathways including IL-33 and the IL-1-like receptor ST2. Here, the involvement of mast cells and the IL-33/ST2 axis in pulmonary and cardiovascular responses to multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) exposure are examined. Toxicological effects of MWCNTs are observed only in mice with a sufficient population of mast cells and are not observed when mast cells are absent or incapable of responding to IL-33. Our findings establish for the first time that mast cells and the IL-33/ST2 axis orchestrates adverse pulmonary and cardiovascular responses to an engineered nanomaterial, giving insight into a previously unknown mechanism of toxicity. This novel mechanism of toxicity could be used for assessing the safety of engineered nanomaterials and provides a realistic therapeutic target for potential nanoparticle induced toxicities.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reinstorf, A.
AU  - Hempel, U.
AU  - Olgemöller, F.
AU  - Domaschke, H.
AU  - Schneiders, W.
AU  - Mai, R.
AU  - Stadlinger, B.
AU  - Rösen-Wolff, A.
AU  - Rammelt, S.
AU  - Gelinsky, M.
AU  - Pompe, W.
TI  - O-phospho-L-serine modified calcium phosphate cements – material properties, in vitro and in vivo investigations
JO  - Materialwissenschaft und Werkstofftechnik
JA  - Mat.‐wiss. u. Werkstofftech.
VL  - 37
IS  - 6
SN  - 0933-5137
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mawe.200600026
DO  - doi:10.1002/mawe.200600026
SP  - 491
EP  - 503
KW  - bone cement
KW  - osteoblasts
KW  - monocytes
KW  - osteoclast-like cells
KW  - remodelling
KW  - Knochenzement
KW  - Osteoblasten
KW  - Monozyten
KW  - osteoklastenähnliche Zellen
KW  - Remodelling
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract One of the most important requirements for calcium phosphate bone cements (CPBC) is remodelling in vivo. Degradation of the artificial material and the formation of native new bone matrix have to interdigitate to avoid instability. The remodelling process should not last longer than one year. In this study a CPBC was modified with O-phospho-L-serine (phosphoserine) to improve the material properties in order to speed up remodelling in vivo. The results showed that the modified cements exhibit a nano-crystalline microstructure with a high specific surface area and increased compressive strength (about 50?%). Metabolic activity of osteoblasts was improved on the modified material. Monocytes were found to be highly activated on the cements containing phosphoserine. In addition the formation of multinucleated giant cells (osteoclast-like cells) was not impaired on phosphoserine modified cement composites. In vivo experiments in Wistar rats and mini pigs clearly revealed that phosphoserine modified cements showed a higher capability of remodelling compared to the cements without phosphoserine.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chen, Li
AU  - Wu, Zhenxu
AU  - Zhou, Yulai
AU  - Li, Linlong
AU  - Wang, Yu
AU  - Wang, Zongliang
AU  - Chen, Yue
AU  - Zhang, Peibiao
C7  - 45271
TI  - Biomimetic porous collagen/hydroxyapatite scaffold for bone tissue engineering
JO  - Journal of Applied Polymer Science
JA  - J. Appl. Polym. Sci.
VL  - 134
IS  - 37
SN  - 0021-8995
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/app.45271
DO  - doi:10.1002/app.45271
SP  - 45271
KW  - biomimetic
KW  - bone tissue engineering
KW  - collagen
KW  - composite scaffold
KW  - hydroxyapatite
PY  - 2017
AB  - ABSTRACT Bone defect and osteochondral injury frequently occur due to diseases or traumatism and bring a crucial challenge in orthopedics. The hybrid scaffold has shown promise as a potential strategy for the treatment of such defects. In this study, a novel biomimetic porous collagen (Col)/hydroxyapatite (HA) scaffold was fabricated through assembling layers of Col containing gradual amount of HA under the assistance of ?iterative layering? freeze-drying process. The scaffold presents a double gradient of highly interconnected porosity and HA content from top to bottom, mimicking the inherent physiological structure of bone. Owing to the biomimetic structure and component, significant increase of cell proliferation, alkaline phosphatase activity, and osteogenic differentiation in vitro was observed, illustrating potential application of the excellent Col/HA scaffold as a promising strategy for bone tissue engineering. ? 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 2017, 134, 45271.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Camalier, Corinne E.
AU  - Yi, Ming
AU  - Yu, Li-Rong
AU  - Hood, Brian L.
AU  - Conrads, Kelly A.
AU  - Lee, Young Jae
AU  - Lin, Yiming
AU  - Garneys, Laura M.
AU  - Bouloux, Gary F.
AU  - Young, Matthew R.
AU  - Veenstra, Timothy D.
AU  - Stephens, Robert M.
AU  - Colburn, Nancy H.
AU  - Conrads, Thomas P.
AU  - Beck Jr., George R.
TI  - An integrated understanding of the physiological response to elevated extracellular phosphate
JO  - Journal of Cellular Physiology
JA  - J. Cell. Physiol.
VL  - 228
IS  - 7
SN  - 0021-9541
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.24312
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcp.24312
SP  - 1536
EP  - 1550
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Recent studies have suggested that changes in serum phosphate levels influence pathological states associated with aging such as cancer, bone metabolism, and cardiovascular function, even in individuals with normal renal function. The causes are only beginning to be elucidated but are likely a combination of endocrine, paracrine, autocrine, and cell autonomous effects. We have used an integrated quantitative biology approach, combining transcriptomics and proteomics to define a multi-phase, extracellular phosphate-induced, signaling network in pre-osteoblasts as well as primary human and mouse mesenchymal stromal cells. We identified a rapid mitogenic response stimulated by elevated phosphate that results in the induction of immediate early genes including c-fos. The mechanism of activation requires FGF receptor signaling followed by stimulation of N-Ras and activation of AP-1 and serum response elements. A distinct long-term response also requires FGF receptor signaling and results in N-Ras activation and expression of genes and secretion of proteins involved in matrix regulation, calcification, and angiogenesis. The late response is synergistically enhanced by addition of FGF23 peptide. The intermediate phase results in increased oxidative phosphorylation and ATP production and is necessary for the late response providing a functional link between the phases. Collectively, the results define elevated phosphate, as a mitogen and define specific mechanisms by which phosphate stimulates proliferation and matrix regulation. Our approach provides a comprehensive understanding of the cellular response to elevated extracellular phosphate, functionally connecting temporally coordinated signaling, transcriptional, and metabolic events with changes in long-term cell behavior. J. Cell. Physiol. 228: 1536?1550, 2013. ? 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Sharma, Anuj
AU  - Singh, Anoop K.
AU  - Warren, James
AU  - Maheshwari, Radha K
TI  - 119 Differential Regulation of Angiogenic Genes in Normal and Diabetic Wound Healing
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 13
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216w.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2005.130216w.x
SP  - A28
EP  - A48
PY  - 2005
AB  - Wound healing is a complicated biological process that involves interactions of multiple cell types, various growth factors, their mediators and the extracellular matrix proteins. In this study, we have studied the differential regulation of angiogenic genes during wound healing in transgenic diabetic mice and non-diabetic mice. One 8?mm full thickness cutaneous wound under aseptic conditions was created on either side of the midline. Wound tissues were studied at 4, 7, and 11 days postwounding and healing was assessed by histology. The pathway specific gene expression profile of wound tissue in transgenic diabetic mice was compared with the normal mice. Profiling of these genes showed differential regulation of many angiogenic promoters, inhibitors, growth factors and cytokines. Furthermore, in our study hypoxia inducible factor (HIF-1a), osteopontin (OPN) and osteonectin are induced early at day 4, in both the diabetic and nondiabetic wound. The expression was downregulated by 11-day postwounding in the nondiabetic wound, whereas diabetic wounds showed constitutively high expression of these genes. The expression patterns of these genes were concomitant with the extent of healing as assessed by histology at different time point postwounding. These results suggest wound healing is a complex process that involves cascade of interaction of various factors. Although a single gene may not be solely responsible for any impairment in healing; however, an in-depth study of these genes and precise balance between the inducers and inhibitors of angiogenesis may provide an answer to the delayed healing in diabetic conditions. (This work was supported by a grant (5 R21 AT000517-02) from the NCCAM, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, MD.)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mandatori, Domitilla
AU  - Penolazzi, Letizia
AU  - Pipino, Caterina
AU  - Di Tomo, Pamela
AU  - Di Silvestre, Sara
AU  - Di Pietro, Natalia
AU  - Trevisani, Sara
AU  - Angelozzi, Marco
AU  - Ucci, Mariangela
AU  - Piva, Roberta
AU  - Pandolfi, Assunta
C8  - TERM-16-0556.R1
TI  - Menaquinone-4 enhances osteogenic potential of human amniotic fluid mesenchymal stem cells cultured in 2D and 3D dynamic culture systems
JO  - Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine
JA  - J Tissue Eng Regen Med
VL  - 12
IS  - 2
SN  - 1932-6254
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/term.2471
DO  - doi:10.1002/term.2471
SP  - 447
EP  - 459
KW  - 3D culture
KW  - amniotic fluid mesenchymal stem cells
KW  - osteogenesis
KW  - osteoporosis
KW  - vitamin K2
KW  - γ-glutamyl carboxylase
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Menaquinones, also known as Vitamin K2 family, regulate calcium homeostasis in a ?bone-vascular cross-talk? and recently received particular attention for their positive effect on bone formation. Given that the correlation between menaquinones and bone metabolism to date is still unclear, the objective of our study was to investigate the possible role of menaquinone-4 (MK-4), an isoform of the menaquinones family, in the modulation of osteogenesis. For this reason, we used a model of human amniotic fluid mesenchymal stem cells (hAFMSCs) cultured both in two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D; RCCS?bioreactor) in vitro culture systems. Furthermore, to mimic the ?bone remodelling unit? in vitro, hAFMSCs were co-cultured in the 3D system with human monocyte cells (hMCs) as osteoclast precursors. The results showed that in a conventional 2D culture system, hAFMSCs were responsive to the MK-4, which significantly improved the osteogenic process through ?-glutamyl carboxylase-dependent pathway. The same results were obtained in the 3D dynamic system where MK-4 treatment supported the osteoblast-like formation promoting the extracellular bone matrix deposition and the expression of the osteogenic-related proteins (alkaline phosphatase, osteopontin, collagen type-1 and osteocalcin). Notably, when the hAFMSCs were co-cultured in a 3D dynamic system with the hMCs, the presence of MK-4 supported the cellular aggregate formation as well as the osteogenic function of hAFMSCs, but negatively affected the osteoclastogenic process. Taken together, our results demonstrate that MK-4 supported the aggregate formation of hAFMSCs and increased the osteogenic functions. Specifically, our data could help to optimize bone regenerative medicine combining cell-based approaches with MK-4 treatment.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Liu, Cheng
AU  - Tsai, An-Ly
AU  - Chen, Yen-Chu
AU  - Fan, Shih-Chen
AU  - Huang, Chun-Hsien
AU  - Wu, Chia-Ching
AU  - Chang, Chih-Han
TI  - Facilitation of human osteoblast apoptosis by sulindac and indomethacin under hypoxic injury
JO  - Journal of Cellular Biochemistry
JA  - J. Cell. Biochem.
VL  - 113
IS  - 1
SN  - 0730-2312
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcb.23338
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcb.23338
SP  - 148
EP  - 155
KW  - Hypoxia
KW  - Osteoblast
KW  - Apoptosis
KW  - NSAID
KW  - Aspirin
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Hypoxic?ischemia injury occurs after trauma causes consequential bone necrosis. Non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are frequently used in orthopedic clinics for pain relief. However, the underlying mechanism and outcome for usage of NSAIDs is poorly understood. To investigate the damage and loss of osteoblast function in hypoxia, two hypoxia mimetics, cobalt chloride (CoCl2) and desferrioxamine (DFO), were used to create an in vitro hypoxic microenvironment. The cell damage was observed by decreases of cell viability and increases in cyclooxygenase-2 and cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Cell apoptosis was confirmed by WST-1 cytotoxic assays and flow cytometry. The functional expression of osteoblast in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was significantly decreased by CoCl2 and inhibited when treated with DFO. To simulate the use of NSAID after hypoxic injury, four types of anti-inflammatory drugs, sulindac sulfide (SUL), indomethacin (IND), aspirin (Asp), and sodium salicylate (NaS), were applied to osteoblasts after 1?h of hypoxia mimetic treatment. SUL and IND further enhanced cell death after hypoxia. ALP activity was totally abolished in hypoxic osteoblasts under IND treatment. Facilitation of osteoblast apoptosis occurred regardless of IND dosage under hypoxic conditions. To investigate osteoblast in vivo, local hypoxia was created by fracture of tibia and then treated the injured mice with IND by oral feeding. IND-induced osteoblast apoptosis was confirmed by positive staining of TUNEL assay in fractured mice. Significant delay of fracture healing in bone tissue was also observed with the treatment of IND. These results provide information pertaining to choosing appropriate anti-inflammatory drugs for orthopedic patients. J. Cell. Biochem. 113: 148?155, 2012. ? 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Deng, Meng
AU  - Kumbar, Sangamesh G.
AU  - Nair, Lakshmi S.
AU  - Weikel, Arlin L.
AU  - Allcock, Harry R.
AU  - Laurencin, Cato T.
TI  - Biomimetic Structures: Biological Implications of Dipeptide-Substituted Polyphosphazene–Polyester Blend Nanofiber Matrices for Load-Bearing Bone Regeneration
JO  - Advanced Functional Materials
JA  - Adv. Funct. Mater.
VL  - 21
IS  - 14
SN  - 1616-301X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201100275
DO  - doi:10.1002/adfm.201100275
SP  - 2641
EP  - 2651
KW  - polyphosphazenes
KW  - biomimetic materials
KW  - composite materials
KW  - nanofibers
KW  - tissue engineering
PY  - 2011
AB  - Abstract Successful bone regeneration benefits from three-dimensional (3D) bioresorbable scaffolds that mimic the hierarchical architecture and mechanical characteristics of native tissue extracellular matrix (ECM). A scaffold platform that integrates unique material chemistry with nanotopography while mimicking the 3D hierarchical bone architecture and bone mechanics is reported. A biocompatible dipeptide polyphosphazene-polyester blend is electrospun to produce fibers in the diameter range of 50?500 nm to emulate dimensions of collagen fibrils present in the natural bone ECM. Various electrospinning and process parameters are optimized to produce blend nanofibers with good uniformity, appropriate mechanical strength, and suitable porosity. Biomimetic 3D scaffolds are created by orienting blend nanofiber matrices in a concentric manner with an open central cavity to replicate bone marrow cavity, as well as the lamellar structure of bone. This biomimicry results in scaffold stress?strain curve similar to that of native bone with a compressive modulus in the mid-range of values for human trabecular bone. Blend nanofiber matrices support adhesion and proliferation of osteoblasts and show an elevated phenotype expression compared to polyester nanofibers. Furthermore, the 3D structure encourages osteoblast infiltration and ECM secretion, bridging the gaps of scaffold concentric walls during in vitro culture. The results also highlight the importance of in situ ECM secretion by cells in maintaining scaffold mechanical properties following scaffold degradation with time. This study for the first time demonstrates the feasibility of developing a mechanically competent nanofiber matrix via a biomimetic strategy and the advantages of polyphosphazene blends in promoting osteoblast phenotype progression for bone regeneration.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lange-Consiglio, A.
AU  - Corradetti, B.
AU  - Meucci, A.
AU  - Perego, R.
AU  - Bizzaro, D.
AU  - Cremonesi, F.
TI  - Characteristics of equine mesenchymal stem cells derived from amnion and bone marrow: In vitro proliferative and multilineage potential assessment
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 45
IS  - 6
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12052
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12052
SP  - 737
EP  - 744
KW  - horse
KW  - amniotic mesenchymal cells
KW  - bone marrow mesenchymal cells
KW  - proliferation
KW  - differentiation
PY  - 2013
AB  - Summary Reasons for performing study This is the first study comparing stemness features of equine mesenchymal progenitor cells derived from amniotic membrane and bone marrow. Objectives To investigate an alternative and noninvasive stromal cell source for equine tissue engineering. Study design In vitro experimental study of the characteristics of equine mesenchymal progenitor cells derived from amnion and bone marrow. Methods Cells isolated from amniotic membrane and bone marrow were analysed for proliferation (growth curve, doubling time, colony forming unit). Immunocytochemical detection of pluripotency markers and gene expression of stromal cell markers were also performed and these cells were studied for multilineage plasticity. Results Amniotic stromal cells (AMSCs) and bone marrow mesenchymal cells (BM-MSCs) both exhibited mature stromal cell-specific gene expression and immunocytochemical properties, but showed substantial differences in their proliferative and differentiation potential. The mean doubling time for AMSCs was significantly lower (P<0.05) than that observed for BM-MSCs (1.17 ± 0.15 vs. 3.27 ± 0.19 days, respectively). Compared to AMSCs, BM-MSCs also demonstrated a significantly (P<0.05) lower clonogenic capability (one fibroblast-like colony forming unit from a mean of 590.15 cells seeded for BM-MSCs vs. 242.73 cells seeded for AMSCs). BM-MSCs did not differentiate into glial cells, and the osteogenic differentiation process was longer than for AMSCs. Conclusions and potential relevance The amniotic membrane could be a valuable source of MSCs to be used both for allogenic and/or autologous therapies. The noninvasive nature and low cost of collection, the rapid proliferation along with a greater differentiation potential and the ?off the shelf? preparation potential could make AMCs useful for cell therapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Liu, Nanxin
AU  - Zhou, Mi
AU  - Zhang, Qi
AU  - Yong, Li
AU  - Zhang, Tao
AU  - Tian, Taoran
AU  - Ma, Quanquan
AU  - Lin, Shiyu
AU  - Zhu, Bofeng
AU  - Cai, Xiaoxiao
C7  - e12478
TI  - Effect of substrate stiffness on proliferation and differentiation of periodontal ligament stem cells
JO  - Cell Proliferation
JA  - Cell Prolif
VL  - 51
IS  - 5
SN  - 0960-7722
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cpr.12478
DO  - doi:10.1111/cpr.12478
SP  - e12478
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Objectives The aim of this study was to understand the effect of substrate stiffness (a mechanical factor of the extracellular matrix) on periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) and its underlying mechanism. Materials and methods Elastic substrates were fabricated by mixing 2 components, a base and curing agent in proportions of 10:1, 20:1, 30:1 or 40:1. PDLSC morphology was observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Cell proliferation and differentiation were assessed after PDLSCs was cultured on various elastic substrates. Data were analysed using one-way ANOVA. Results SEM revealed variations in the morphology of PDLSCs cultured on elastic substrates. PDLSC proliferation increased with substrate stiffness (P < .05). Osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs was higher on stiff substrates. Notch pathway markers were up-regulated in PDLSCs cultured on stiff substrates. Conclusions Results suggested that the osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs might be promoted by culturing them in a stiffness-dependent manner, which regulates the Notch pathway. This might provide a new method of enhancing osteogenesis in PDLSCs.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Aslam, R. S.
AU  - Scheuenstuhl, H.
AU  - Beckert, S.
AU  - Hopf, H.
AU  - Hussain, Z.
AU  - Hunt, T. K.
TI  - 049 Lactate Controls Vascular Development in Wound Healing
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 12
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractav.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractav.x
SP  - A14
EP  - A14
PY  - 2004
AB  - INTRODUCTION: High concentrations of lactate approx. 10?mM are characteristic of wound healing. We have previously shown that lactate instigates release of VEGF from macrophages and endothelial cells. Our present study uses an in vivo murine Matrigel model to study how lactate enhances vascular development and repair. METHODS: Matrigel is a reconstituted basement membrane complex, a liquid at 4 degree C. When injected subcutaneously, it reconstitutes as a gel. 30?mgs of finely divided polylactate polymer (DL-lactide-co-glycolide) was mixed with 1cc of Matrigel, and 2 injections were made into the dorsum of each of 60 (average 7/group), 6-month-old Swiss Webster mice. The gel implants were harvested at 3, 6, 9, 11 and 16 days post injection, and were fixed in buffered formalin or frozen. Cell migration and vascular development were assessed using H&E, anti-CD31 and anti-MAC3 antibody stainings for leukocytes, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and macrophages. Cells and vessels were quantified microscopically. RESULTS: Control implants (without polylactate) developed little or no inflammation or angiogenesis. Polylactated implants developed highly significant number of endothelial cells and recognizable vessels at 6 and 9 days. At 11 and 16 days, sizeable vessels with surrounding connective tissue were found. Though a moderate inflammation occurred in the lactate groups, no foreign body reaction was seen. Larger implants of high molecular weight instigated little inflammation and few vessels. CONCLUSION: Slowly released lactate leads to the formation of new vessels. Our results provide support for further clinical applications of lactate polymer in wounds. NIH/NIGMS Trauma Training Grant
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Linh, Nguyen T. B.
AU  - Abueva, Celine D. G.
AU  - Jang, Dong-Woo
AU  - Lee, Byong-Taek
TI  - Collagen and bone morphogenetic protein-2 functionalized hydroxyapatite scaffolds induce osteogenic differentiation in human adipose-derived stem cells
JO  - Journal of Biomedical Materials Research Part B: Applied Biomaterials
JA  - J Biomed Mater Res
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 1552-4973
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbm.b.34485
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbm.b.34485
KW  - BMP-2
KW  - bone regeneration
KW  - collagen
KW  - scaffold
KW  - surface modification
AB  - Abstract Surface modification is one important way to fabricate successful biocompatible materials in bone tissue engineering. Hydroxyapatite (HAp) materials have received considerable attention as suitable bioceramics for manufacturing osseous implants because of their similarity to bone mineral in terms of chemical composition. In this study, the surface of porous HAp scaffold was modified by collagen treatment and bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) conjugation. The surface modification did not affect the HAp scaffold's bulk properties. No significant difference in compressive strength was found among different scaffolds, with HAp, collagen modified HAp, and collagen?BMP-2-functionalized HAp having compressive strengths of 45.8?±?3.12, 51.2?±?4.09, and 50.7?±?3.98?MPa, respectively. In vitro studies were performed to compare adhesion and osteogenic differentiation between human adipose-derived stem cells (hADSCs) with modified surfaces and those unmodified HAp surfaces. Collagen or BMP-2 alone was insufficient and that both collagen and BMP-2 are necessary to get the desired results. The findings suggest the possibility of using three-dimensional HAp scaffold treated with gold-standard collagen coating and highly researched BMP-2 growth factor as a platform to deliver hADSCs. Results of this study could be used to develop treatment strategy for regenerating completely transected models using more synergistic approaches.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yan, Yufei
AU  - Cheng, Baochang
AU  - Chen, Kaizhe
AU  - Cui, Wenguo
AU  - Qi, Jin
AU  - Li, Xinming
AU  - Deng, Lianfu
C7  - 1801043
TI  - Enhanced Osteogenesis of Bone Marrow-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells by a Functionalized Silk Fibroin Hydrogel for Bone Defect Repair
JO  - Advanced Healthcare Materials
JA  - Adv. Healthcare Mater.
VL  - 8
IS  - 3
SN  - 2192-2640
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/adhm.201801043
DO  - doi:10.1002/adhm.201801043
SP  - 1801043
KW  - hydrogels
KW  - osteogenesis
KW  - peptides
KW  - self-assembly
KW  - silk fibroin
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Silk fibroin (SF) from Bombyx mori is a promising natural material for the synthesis of biocompatible and biodegradable hydrogels for use in biomedical applications from tissue engineering to drug delivery. However, weak gelation performance and the lack of biochemical cues to trigger cell proliferation and differentiation currently significantly limit its application in these areas. Herein, a biofunctional hydrogel containing SF (2.0%) and a small peptide gelator (e.g., NapFFRGD = 1.0 wt%) is generated via cooperative molecular self-assembly. The introduction of NapFFRGD to SF is shown to significantly improve its gelation properties by lowering both its threshold gelation concentration to 2.0% and gelation time to 20 min under physiological conditions (pH = 7.4, 37 °C), as well as functionalizing the SF hydrogel with cell-adhesive motifs (e.g., RGD). Besides mediating cell adhesion, the RGD ligands incorporated within the SF-RGD gel promote the osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells encapsulated within the gel matrix, leading to bone regeneration in a mouse calvarial defect model, compared with a blank SF gel (2.0%, pH = 7.4). This work suggests that SF could be easily tailored with bioactive peptide gelators to afford bioactive hydrogels with favorable microenvironments for tissue regeneration applications.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Madhurakkat Perikamana, Sajeesh Kumar
AU  - Lee, Sang Min
AU  - Lee, Jinkyu
AU  - Ahmad, Taufiq
AU  - Lee, Min Suk
AU  - Yang, Hee Seok
AU  - Shin, Heungsoo
C7  - 1800392
TI  - Oxidative Epigallocatechin Gallate Coating on Polymeric Substrates for Bone Tissue Regeneration
JO  - Macromolecular Bioscience
JA  - Macromol. Biosci.
VL  - 19
IS  - 4
SN  - 1616-5187
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/mabi.201800392
DO  - doi:10.1002/mabi.201800392
SP  - 1800392
KW  - bone tissue engineering
KW  - multifunctionality
KW  - plant polyphenols
KW  - surface modification
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Plant derived flavonoids have not been well explored in tissue engineering applications due to difficulties in efficient formulations with biomaterials for controlled presentation. Here, the authors report that surface coating of epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) on polymeric substrates including poly (L-lactic acid) (PLLA) nanofibers can be performed via oxidative polymerization of EGCG in the presence of cations, enabling regulation of biological functions of multiple cell types implicated in bone regeneration. EGCG coating on the PLLA nanofiber promotes osteogenic differentiation of adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) and is potent to suppress adipogenesis of ADSCs while significantly reduces osteoclastic maturation of murine macrophages. Moreover, EGCG coating serves as a protective layer for ADSCs against oxidative stress caused by hydrogen peroxide. Finally, the in vivo implantation of EGCG-coated nanofibers into a mouse calvarial defect model significantly promotes the bone regeneration (61.52 ± 28.10%) as compared to defect (17.48 ± 11.07%). Collectively, the results suggest that EGCG coating is a simple bioinspired surface modification of polymeric biomaterials and importantly can thus serve as a promising interface for tuning activities of multiple cell types associated with bone fracture healing.
ER  - 
