
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Collet e Silva, F. S.
AU  - Bardella, R.
AU  - Porta, R. M.
AU  - Poggetti, R. S.
AU  - Birolini, D.
TI  - TS03 RETROHEPATIC VENA CAVA INJURY REMAINS A CHALLENGE TO TRAUMA SURGEONS
JO  - ANZ Journal of Surgery
VL  - 77
IS  - s1
SN  - 1445-1433
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04133_3.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04133_3.x
SP  - A93
EP  - A93
PY  - 2007
AB  - Although uncommon, and despite the modern in diagnostic tools and therapeutic alternatives, retrohepatic and main hepatic veins injury remains associated with high mortality rate. Preoperative diagnosis is uncommon, and bullet trajectory may be a helpful sign in penetrating trauma patients. Patients and Methods? Hospital records of patients sustaining retroheptic vena cava (RHVC) injury were retrospectively reviewed as to diagnosis, associated injuries, injury characteristics, surgical management, and outcome, last ten years. Results? Eight male, 17 to 45 (mean 27.5) years-old patients sustaining RHVC injury were reviewed. Mean trauma indexes for the 8 cases were: ISS 36.6, RTS 7.55 and TRISS 89.0; and for the group who died: ISS 41.6, RTS 7.18, and TRISS 80.5. Two patients had sustained blunt trauma (one died), and six had penetrating injuries (two died). The injury diagnosis was achieved during surgery in all cases. A transfixing RHV injury occurred in 4 (50% of the) patients, and was found in all the 3 patients who died. An atriocaval shunt was employed in four patients, 3 of them had with transfixing injury with two deaths. The number of associated injuries was higher in the patients who died. Overall mortality rate was 37.5%. Comments? Despite advances in image diagnosis, injuries to RHVC are frequently diagnosed during surgery. Tangential injuries were managed with direct approach and sutures, and to control blending in transfixing injuries, were managed with atriocaval shunts, before suture. Conclusion? Despite improvements in its diagnosis and management, RHVC injuries remain with a high mortality rate, mainly when transfixing, and associated with numerous associated injuries.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Luyten, Patrick
AU  - Campbell, Chloe
AU  - Fonagy, Peter
TI  - Borderline personality disorder, complex trauma, and problems with self and identity: A social-communicative approach
JO  - Journal of Personality
JA  - J Pers
VL  - 88
IS  - 1
SN  - 0022-3506
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jopy.12483
DO  - doi:10.1111/jopy.12483
SP  - 88
EP  - 105
KW  - borderline personality disorder
KW  - identity
KW  - personality
KW  - self
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2020
AB  - Abstract Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a relatively highly prevalent psychiatric disorder that is associated with very high personal and socioeconomic costs. This paper provides a state-of-the-art review of the relationship between complex trauma and key features of BPD, with a focus on problems with self-coherence and self-continuity. We first review evidence for the high prevalence of complex trauma in BPD patients. This is followed by a discussion of emerging knowledge concerning the biobehavioral mechanisms involved in problems related to self and identity in BPD. We emphasize three biobehavioral systems that are affected by complex trauma and are centrally implicated in identify diffusion in BPD: the attachment system, mentalizing or social cognition, and the capacity for epistemic trust?that is, an openness to the reception of social communication that is personally relevant and of generalizable significance. We formulate a new approach to personality and severe personality disorders, and to problems with self and identity in these disorders, rooted in a social-communicative understanding of the foundations of selfhood. We also discuss how extant evidence-based treatments address the above-mentioned biobehavioral systems involved in identity diffusion in BPD and related disorders, and the supporting evidence. We close the paper with recommendations for future research.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Jakob, Peter
TI  - Multi-stressed families, child violence and the larger system: an adaptation of the nonviolent model
JO  - Journal of Family Therapy
JA  - Journal of Family Therapy
VL  - 40
IS  - 1
SN  - 0163-4445
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-6427.12133
DO  - doi:10.1111/1467-6427.12133
SP  - 25
EP  - 44
KW  - behavioural problems
KW  - child and adolescent mental health
KW  - family violence
KW  - social networks
KW  - trauma
KW  - 关键词：行为问题
KW  - 儿童青少年心理健康
KW  - 家庭暴力
KW  - 会网络
KW  - 创伤
KW  - Palabras clave: problemas conductuales
KW  - salud mental infanto-juvenil
KW  - violencia familiar
KW  - redes sociales
KW  - trauma
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Non Violent Resistance (NVR) aims to change family relationships, when children and young people show violent, aggressive or self-destructive behaviour. Trauma in multi-stressed families necessitates an adaptation of the original NVR approach in order to meet these clients' specific therapeutic needs when child violence arises. The author has developed such an adaptation. This article gives an overview of the larger system aspect of the adapted NVR model, illustrating how NVR core principles are applied to help family members develop a sense of safety within the larger system, so the nuclear family itself can become a safe and supportive recovery environment. Practitioner points By differentiating between interaction patterns, parents identify safe supporters within the larger system to help develop effective responses to harmful child behaviour Therapeutic conversation centres parents? own formulation of their support needs, in order to regain their voice and experience personal agency Effective resistance to problem behaviour grows by engaging other adults in ways that facilitate parents? access to internal and interpersonal resources
ER  - 

AU  - St. George, Geoffrey
C7  - pp. 57-84
TI  - Dealing with Endodontic Problems Following Sporting Trauma
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119332619.ch5
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119332619.ch5
SP  - 57-84
KW  - dental pulp
KW  - endodontic treatment
KW  - neurovascular bundle
KW  - periodontium
KW  - pulp necrosis
KW  - sporting trauma
KW  - tooth development
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary Teeth have two regions where trauma can cause irreparable damage: the dental pulp and periodontium. The classification of the injury type, and signs and symptoms may not fully indicate the true extent of the injury, which may be multi-factorial. Exposure or near exposure of the pulp in the mouth and damage to the neurovascular bundle can result in one of several different outcomes for the dental pulp. The rate of pulp necrosis with a number of different injuries varies with age and the stage of tooth development. Endodontic treatment would only be commenced if there were signs and symptoms of an endodontic infection. A thorough history and examination are necessary to not only reveal the full extent of injuries to the teeth and jaws, but also to exclude more serious injuries, such as concussion and neck injuries, which may need urgent medical care.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - López-Castro, Teresa
AU  - Hu, Mei-Chen
AU  - Papini, Santiago
AU  - Ruglass, Lesia M.
AU  - Hien, Denise A.
TI  - Pathways to change: Use trajectories following trauma-informed treatment of women with co-occurring post-traumatic stress disorder and substance use disorders
JO  - Drug and Alcohol Review
JA  - Drug Alcohol Rev
VL  - 34
IS  - 3
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/dar.12230
DO  - doi:10.1111/dar.12230
SP  - 242
EP  - 251
KW  - substance abuse
KW  - post-traumatic stress disorder
KW  - substance use trajectory
KW  - latent growth mixture modelling
KW  - relapse
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract Introduction and Aims Despite advances towards integration of care for women with co-occurring substance use disorder (SUD) and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), low abstinence rates following SUD/PTSD treatment remain the norm. The utility of investigating distinct substance use trajectories is a critical innovation in the detection and refining of effective interventions for this clinical population. Design and Methods The present study reanalysed data from the largest randomised clinical trial to date for co-occurring SUD and PTSD in women (National Drug Abuse Treatment Clinical Trials Network; Women and Trauma Study). Randomised participants (n?=?353) received one of two interventions in addition to treatment as usual for SUD: (i) trauma-informed integrative treatment for PTSD/SUD; or (ii) an active control psychoeducation course on women's health. The present study utilised latent growth mixture models (LGMM) with multiple groups to estimate women's substance use patterns during the 12-month follow-up period. Results Findings provided support for three different trajectories of substance use in the post-treatment year: (i) consistently low likelihood and use frequency; (ii) consistently high likelihood and use frequency; and (iii) high likelihood and moderate use frequency. Covariate analyses revealed improvement in PTSD severity was associated with membership in a specific substance use trajectory, although receiving trauma-informed treatment was not. Additionally, SUD severity, age and after-care efforts were shown to be related to trajectory membership. Discussion and Conclusions Findings highlight the necessity of accounting for heterogeneity in post-treatment substance use, relevance of trauma-informed care in SUD recovery and benefits of incorporating methodologies like LGMM when evaluating SUD treatment outcomes. [López-Castro T, Hu M-C, Papini S, Ruglass LM, Hien DA. Pathways to change: Use trajectories following trauma-informed treatment of women with co-occurring post-traumatic stress disorder and substance use disorders. Drug Alcohol Rev 2015]
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Anne Pearlman, Laurie
TI  - Restoring Self in Community: Collective Approaches to Psychological Trauma after Genocide
JO  - Journal of Social Issues
JA  - Journal of Social Issues
VL  - 69
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/josi.12006
DO  - doi:10.1111/josi.12006
SP  - 111
EP  - 124
PY  - 2013
AB  - Recovery from the profound negative psychological and spiritual effects of genocide is essential for individuals to live fulfilling lives, engage in reconciliation, and prevent future violence. This article discusses community approaches to trauma recovery that focus on individuals within their social context. It briefly identifies common psychological problems that follow genocide. It then presents constructivist self development theory (CSDT) as a foundation for understanding these effects and the RICH (Respect, Information, Connection, and Hope) framework, based in CSDT, for designing and assessing the effects of post-genocide psychosocial interventions. The article reviews three approaches to collective recovery: a multifamily group approach, a psychoeducational program focused on youth, and a public education program aimed to promote trauma recovery and prevent future violence. The RICH framework is applied to each approach.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Roca Lizarazu, Maria
TI  - BEYOND UNSPEAKABILITY: CONFIGURATIONS OF ‘TRAVELLING TRAUMA’ IN CONTEMPORARY GERMAN-LANGUAGE LITERATURE ABOUT THE HOLOCAUST
JO  - German Life and Letters
JA  - German Life and Letters
VL  - 72
IS  - 4
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/glal.12246
DO  - doi:10.1111/glal.12246
SP  - 499
EP  - 521
PY  - 2019
AB  - ABSTRACT This article examines two novels by seminal German-language Jewish authors, Benjamin Stein's Die Leinwand (2010) and Eva Menasse's Quasikristalle (2013), to shed light on major shifts in Holocaust memory since the turn of the millennium. I argue that developments such as the disappearance of the eyewitness generation, coupled with the increasing hypermediation and globalisation of Holocaust memories, force us to reconsider certain conceptions of trauma which for a long time have dominated engagements with the Holocaust and its representation. Instead of approaching Holocaust trauma as unspeakable and inherently inaccessible, I propose to read the novels? engagements with the Holocaust through the lens of Terri Tomsky's concept of ?travelling trauma?, which allows us to conceive of the Holocaust as a culturally mediated signifier that moves transgenerationally, transmedially, and transnationally through various discursive networks. The novels by Stein and Menasse furthermore enable us to examine critically certain manifestations of ?travelling trauma? and the current state of Holocaust representation in a way that Tomsky's more descriptive approach does not.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Robinson, Lisa J.
AU  - Stephens, Nicola M.
AU  - Wilson, Stella
AU  - Graham, Laura
AU  - Hackett, Katie L.
TI  - Conceptualizing the key components of rehabilitation following major musculoskeletal trauma: A mixed methods service evaluation
JO  - Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice
JA  - J Eval Clin Pract
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jep.13331
DO  - doi:10.1111/jep.13331
KW  - group concept mapping
KW  - major trauma
KW  - rehabilitation
KW  - service evaluation
AB  - Abstract Rationale, Aims, and Objectives The reorganization of acute major trauma pathways in England has increased survival following traumatic injury, resulting in an increased patient population with diverse and complex needs requiring specialist rehabilitation. However, national audit data indicate that only 5% of patients with traumatic injuries have access to specialist rehabilitation, and there are limited guidelines or standards to inform the delivery of rehabilitation interventions for individuals following major trauma. This group concept mapping project aimed to identify the clinical service needs of individuals accessing our major trauma rehabilitation service, prioritize these needs, determine whether each of these needs is currently being met, and plan targeted service enhancements. Methods Participants contributed towards a statement generation exercise to identify the key components of rehabilitation following major trauma, and individually sorted these statements into themes. Each statement was rated based on importance and current success. Multi-dimensional scaling and hierarchical cluster analysis were applied to the sorted data to produce themed clusters of ideas within concept maps. Priority values were applied to these maps to identify key areas for targeted service enhancement. Results Fifty-eight patients and health care professionals participated in the ideas generation activity, 34 in the sorting, and 49 in the rating activity. A 7-item cluster map was agreed upon, containing the following named clusters: Communication and Coordination; Emotional and psychological wellbeing; Rehabilitation environment; Early rehabilitation; Structured therapy input; Planning for home; and Long-term support. Areas for targeted service enhancement included access to timely and adequate information provision, collaborative goal setting, and specialist pain management across the rehabilitation pathway. Conclusion The conceptual framework presented in this article illustrates the importance of a continuum of rehabilitation provision across the injury trajectory, and provides a platform to track future service changes and facilitate the codesign of new rehabilitation interventions for individuals following major trauma.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Weine, Stevan
AU  - Muzurovic, Nerina
AU  - Kulauzovic, Yasmina
AU  - Besic, Sanela
AU  - Lezic, Alma
AU  - Mujagic, Aida
AU  - Muzurovic, Jasmina
AU  - Spahovic, Dzemila
AU  - Feetham, Suzanne
AU  - Ware, Norma
AU  - Knafl, Kathleen
AU  - Pavkovic, Ivan
TI  - Family Consequences of Refugee Trauma
JO  - Family Process
VL  - 43
IS  - 2
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1545-5300.2004.04302002.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1545-5300.2004.04302002.x
SP  - 147
EP  - 160
PY  - 2004
AB  - Objective:? To construct a model on the consequences of political violence for refugee families based upon a qualitative investigation. Methods:? This study used a grounded-theory approach to analyze qualitative evidence from the CAFES multi-family support and education groups with Bosnian refugee families in Chicago. Textual coding and analysis was conducted using ATLAS/ti for Windows. Results:? A grounded-theory model of Family Consequences of Refugee Trauma (FAMCORT) was constructed that describes Displaced Families of War across four realms of family life: (1) changes in family roles and obligations, (2) changes in family memories and communications, (3) changes in family relationships with other family members; and (4) changes in family connections with the ethnic community and nation state. In each realm, the model also specifies family strategies, called Families Rebuilding Lives, for managing those consequences. Conclusions:? Political violence leads to changes in multiple dimensions of family life and also to strategies for managing those changes. Qualitative family research is useful in better understanding refugee families and in helping them through family-oriented mental health services.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Eren, Burak
AU  - Karagoz Guzey, Feyza
TI  - Is spinal computed tomography necessary in pediatric trauma patients?
JO  - Pediatrics International
JA  - Pediatrics International
VL  - 62
IS  - 1
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ped.14064
DO  - doi:10.1111/ped.14064
SP  - 29
EP  - 35
KW  - cervical spine injury
KW  - computed tomography
KW  - pediatric spinal injury
KW  - pediatric trauma
KW  - radiation
PY  - 2020
AB  - Abstract Background To investigate the prevalence of findings of spinal injury on computed tomography (CT) images of pediatric trauma patients and to define indicators for the possible presence of spinal injuries. Methods Spinal CT for pediatric trauma patients (age ≤ 12 years) over a 2-year period was retrospectively evaluated for the presence of findings suggestive of spinal injury. Results Of the 773 patients reviewed, 19 (2.4%) showed traumatic spinal lesions on their spinal CT images. These patients were significantly older than those without spinal lesions (mean age 7.9 ± 3.3 years vs 6.1 ± 3.3 years; P = 0.02). The prevalence of spinal trauma was significantly lower in patients aged 0?8 years than in those aged 9?12 years (P = 0.025). Spinal injury was significantly higher in female patients (P = 0.014). Most of the spinal injuries were located at the lumbar and sacral vertebral levels, and most did not cause neurological complications or require surgical treatment. Important indicators of the possible presence of spinal injuries were pain, tenderness, or ecchymosis over the spine, a low Glasgow Coma Scale score (≤12), head injury (for cervical injuries), or intrathoracic injuries and pelvic fractures (for lumbar and sacral injuries). Conclusions Most spinal CT examinations for the diagnosis of spinal injuries in children did not show positive findings. Thus, many children were exposed to an unnecessary high dose of radiation. New clinical evaluation criteria and indicators should be defined to diagnose spinal injuries and avoid unnecessary radiological examinations.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Morgan, R. E.
AU  - Fiske-Jackson, A. R.
AU  - Biggi, M.
TI  - Pituitary gland abscess in a horse subsequent to head trauma
JO  - Equine Veterinary Education
JA  - Equine Vet Educ
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/eve.13043
DO  - doi:10.1111/eve.13043
KW  - horse
KW  - pituitary
KW  - abscess
KW  - trauma
KW  - head
AB  - Summary A 5-year-old Thoroughbred gelding with recent history of head trauma presented with multiple facial swellings, bilateral mucopurulent nasal discharge, neck pain, inappetence and depression. On computed tomographic examination, lesions within the pituitary fossa and structures adjacent to the right guttural pouch were identified. Soft tissue swelling was seen in the dorsal aspect of the right guttural pouch surrounding several cranial nerves, with fluid-like material in the dependent portions of the right guttural pouch. A CSF sample revealed mild mixed pleocytosis and increased protein concentration. The horse had concurrent periapical disease of the 209-cheek tooth and mild left sinusitis. The horse's demeanour deteriorated requiring euthanasia. Post-mortem examination revealed a pituitary gland abscess.
ER  - 

AU  - High, Michael D.
C7  - pp. 373-395
TI  - Taxi Driver and Veteran Trauma
SN  - 9781444338614
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118585344.ch18
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118585344.ch18
SP  - 373-395
KW  - psychological trauma
KW  - Taxi Driver
KW  - Travis Bickle
AB  - Summary As one of the most startling and successful of Scorsese's films, Taxi Driver has garnered many critical interpretations. What has come to be known in academia as trauma theory is an amalgamation of different psychological and physiological observations and theorizations that attempt to understand and treat the effects of posttraumatic stress disorder or syndrome (PTSD). One of the most common consequences of psychological trauma is the repetition compulsion. Scorsese's filmic influences are vast, but the film demonstrates the stylistic influence of La Nouvelle Vague, the documentary realism of the Italian neorealists, and the films of Alfred Hitchcock. The link between The Searchers and Taxi Driver is key for understanding a rare representation of veteran's postwar integration in American cinema. Taxi Driver was Scorsese's first critical and commercial success. As a soldier, Bickle was both a disempowered pawn and empowered killer of the Vietnamese population.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Bell, Lorraine
AU  - Newns, Kathryn
TI  - What is multi-impulsive bulimia and can multi-impulsive patients benefit from supervised self-help?
JO  - European Eating Disorders Review
JA  - Eur. Eat. Disorders Rev.
VL  - 10
IS  - 6
SN  - 9781444338614
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/erv.468
DO  - doi:10.1002/erv.468
SP  - 413
EP  - 427
KW  - multi-impulsivity
KW  - bulimia nervosa
KW  - supervised self-help
KW  - CBT
KW  - outcome
PY  - 2002
AB  - Abstract Definitions of multi-impulsivity and sample characteristics between studies of impulsivity vary widely leading to inconsistent results. Outcome data was examined to assess the comparative response of multi-impulsive and non multi-impulsive bulimic patients to a supervised self-help CBT programme. Multi-impulsivity was defined as the presence of two or more impulsive behaviours in the last 2 months in addition to bulimia nervosa as reported with the Multi-Impulsivity Scale. Multi-impulsive patients reported similar levels of bulimic behaviours but higher levels of depression at pre-treatment. They achieved similar levels of change by the end of treatment. However, despite improvements, their levels of depressive symptoms remain high and bulimic symptoms subclinical and may be at higher risk of relapse. Copyright ? 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and Eating Disorders Association.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hyer, Nancy Lea
AU  - Wemmerlöv, Urban
AU  - Morris Jr., John A.
TI  - Performance analysis of a focused hospital unit: The case of an integrated trauma center
JO  - Journal of Operations Management
JA  - Journal of Operations Management
VL  - 27
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781444338614
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jom.2008.08.003
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.jom.2008.08.003
SP  - 203
EP  - 219
KW  - Healthcare
KW  - Operations
KW  - Process design
KW  - Focus
KW  - Case study
KW  - Performance analysis
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract The concept of focus [Skinner, W., 1974. The focused factory. Harvard Business Review 52 (3), 113?121], notably operationalized in manufacturing entities like cells and focused factories, has also been adopted by the health care industry. Examples include patient-focused care systems and product/service lines. Despite its longevity, there is a paucity of studies analyzing the focus concept and its link to performance, especially in health care. This research is aimed at enhancing our understanding of how a focus-based approach to organization redesign in health care affects processes and practices, and what operational, clinical, and financial outcomes result from such a change. The research setting is a single case site within a large medical center for which costs for trauma care used to exceed income. Using a structured framework, we document the design and operation of this physically and organizationally integrated Level I trauma care center and compare it to its preceding operation. Its pre- and post-conversion performance is analyzed using symmetric event windows covering three-year periods before and after the focused hospital unit (FHU) was established. Under a sizable increase in workload, we find no change in mortality, moderate improvement in length of stay, and a large improvement in net operating margins. Surprisingly, the latter stem not from reductions in cost but in sharply increased hospital reimbursements. Previous studies of hospital restructuring involving focused patient populations have not conclusively supported a positive link between focus and outcomes. However, this investigation of a specific FHU suggests, conceptually as well as quantitatively, that focus can be an attractive element in health care system design.
ER  - 

AU  - Goodman, Gail S.
AU  - Goldfarb, Deborah
AU  - Quas, Jodi A.
AU  - Narr, Rachel K.
AU  - Milojevich, Helen
AU  - Cordon, Ingrid M.
C7  - pp. 1-36
TI  - Memory Development, Emotion Regulation, and Trauma-Related Psychopathology
SN  - 9781118121795
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119125556.devpsy313
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119125556.devpsy313
SP  - 1-36
KW  - memory development
KW  - trauma-related psychopathology
KW  - emotion regulation
KW  - child maltreatment
KW  - attachment
KW  - children
KW  - individual differences
PY  - 2009
AB  - Abstract Individuals with a history of trauma, particularly maltreatment, often have accurate memories for trauma-related events. This does not mean that trauma never adversely affects autobiographical memory performance; indeed, some individuals with a trauma history reveal deficits in their memory performance while others at times show memory advantages over individuals without a trauma history. We posit here that individual differences in memory may be related in part to the emotion dysregulation and psychopathology resulting from the trauma and in part to the nature of the event to be recalled. In this chapter, we focus on the scientific literature on child maltreatment, trauma-related psychopathology, and memory from a developmental psychopathology perspective. We summarize relevant theory and research on memory development, trauma-related psychopathology symptoms, and psychophysiological and neuroscience processes relevant to child maltreatment. We also review behavioral studies on childhood trauma and autobiographical memory development. We discuss the translation of such research into clinical and legal practice. We conclude with future directions for research, with the hope of moving this crucial area of study forward to spawn new insights.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Reeves, Elizabeth
AU  - de Pheils, Pilar Bernal
AU  - Silva, Susan G.
AU  - Jaramillo, Diva
AU  - Uribe, Tulia
AU  - Tiwari, Agnes
AU  - Canaval, Gladys Eugenia
AU  - Flores, Maria Eugenia Mendoza
AU  - Belknap, Ruth Ann
AU  - Humphreys, Janice C.
TI  - Trauma Exposure Among Women in the Pacific Rim
JO  - Journal of Nursing Scholarship
JA  - Journal of Nursing Scholarship
VL  - 49
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781118121795
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jnu.12291
DO  - doi:10.1111/jnu.12291
SP  - 286
EP  - 293
KW  - Lifetime trauma exposure
KW  - women's health
KW  - intimate partner violence
KW  - international
KW  - global health
PY  - 2017
AB  - Abstract Purpose Healthcare professionals who provide services in the immediate or long-term aftermath of traumatic events need to understand the nature and frequency of traumatic events in the lives of women. However, research on trauma exposure in women has only recently begun to assess events other than intimate partner and sexual violence and has not supported direct statistical comparison of cross-national and cross-cultural data. The purpose of this descriptive, correlational study was to describe and compare trauma exposure prevalence and type in community-based samples of women in the United States, Colombia, and Hong Kong. Design Women were recruited through posted notices at community health sites, snowball sampling, and online advertisements (N = 576). The Life Stressor Checklist-Revised (total score range 0 to 30) was used to determine the type and prevalence of trauma exposure. Data were collected by native language members of the research team. Methods Descriptive statistics were used to summarize demographic characteristics and trauma exposure for the total sample and each community-based sample (location). Between-location differences were tested using Fisher's exact tests for categorical measures and general linear models with pairwise a posteriori least squares t-test for continuous measures. Responses to open-ended questions were translated and categorized. Findings Over 99% of women in the total sample reported at least one traumatic life event. The mean number of traumatic life events per participant was 7, ranging from 0 to 24. Although there was consistency in the most commonly reported trauma exposures across locations, the rates of specific events often differed. Conclusions Historical, political, geographic, and cultural factors may explain differences in trauma exposure among women in the four locations studied. Clinical Relevance This study offers relevant knowledge for providers in diverse locations who provide services to women who have experienced traumatic events and provides evidence for the need for future research to further enhance knowledge of trauma exposure among women, and on the effects of trauma in women's lives.
ER  - 

AU  - Bryant, Richard A.
C7  - pp. 187-211
TI  - In the Aftermath of Trauma: Normative Reactions and Early Interventions
SN  - 9780470862841
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470713570.ch10
DO  - doi:10.1002/9780470713570.ch10
SP  - 187-211
KW  - traumatic stress
KW  - trauma exposure
KW  - psychological debrieing
KW  - trauma survivors
KW  - posttraumatic adjustment
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary This chapter contains section titled: Dissociation and ASD in the Aftermath of Trauma Psychological Debriefing Alternatives to Debriefing What Should We do in the Aftermath of Trauma? References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Garey, Lorra
AU  - Cheema, Mina K.
AU  - Otal, Tanveer K.
AU  - Schmidt, Norman B.
AU  - Neighbors, Clayton
AU  - Zvolensky, Michael J.
TI  - The sequential pathway between trauma-related symptom severity and cognitive-based smoking processes through perceived stress and negative affect reduction expectancies among trauma exposed smokers
JO  - The American Journal on Addictions
JA  - Am J Addict
VL  - 25
IS  - 7
SN  - 9780470862841
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/ajad.12442
DO  - doi:10.1111/ajad.12442
SP  - 565
EP  - 572
PY  - 2016
AB  - Background and Objectives Smoking rates are markedly higher among trauma-exposed individuals relative to non?trauma-exposed individuals. Extant work suggests that both perceived stress and negative affect reduction smoking expectancies are independent mechanisms that link trauma-related symptoms and smoking. Yet, no work has examined perceived stress and negative affect reduction smoking expectancies as potential explanatory variables for the relation between trauma-related symptom severity and smoking in a sequential pathway model. Methods The present study utilized a sample of treatment-seeking, trauma-exposed smokers (n?=?363; 49.0% female) to examine perceived stress and negative affect reduction expectancies for smoking as potential sequential explanatory variables linking trauma-related symptom severity and nicotine dependence, perceived barriers to smoking cessation, and severity of withdrawal-related problems and symptoms during past quit attempts. Results As hypothesized, perceived stress and negative affect reduction expectancies had a significant sequential indirect effect on trauma-related symptom severity and criterion variables. Conclusions and Scientific Significance Findings further elucidate the complex pathways through which trauma-related symptoms contribute to smoking behavior and cognitions, and highlight the importance of addressing perceived stress and negative affect reduction expectancies in smoking cessation programs among trauma-exposed individuals. (Am J Addict 2016;25:565?572)
ER  - 

AU  - Costello, Merilee F.
C7  - pp. 176-190
TI  - Urinary Tract Trauma
SN  - 9780470958315
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118785645.ch10
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118785645.ch10
SP  - 176-190
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - GOLIER, JULIA A.
AU  - HARVEY, PHILIP D.
AU  - LEGGE, JULIANA
AU  - YEHUDA, RACHEL
TI  - Memory Performance in Older Trauma Survivors
JO  - Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences
VL  - 1071
IS  - 1
SN  - 9780470958315
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1196/annals.1364.006
DO  - doi:10.1196/annals.1364.006
SP  - 54
EP  - 66
KW  - trauma
KW  - memory
KW  - aging
KW  - neuropsychology
KW  - geriatric
PY  - 2006
AB  - Abstract:? Impaired declarative memory performance and smaller hippocampal volume have been observed in young and middle-aged adults with chronic posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). These alterations may put trauma survivors with PTSD at greater risk for cognitive decline in later life. This article focuses on the emerging literature on neuropsychological impairment in aging trauma survivors, in particular, elderly combat veterans and survivors of the Holocaust. In veterans and in Holocaust survivors, PTSD was associated with substantial impairments in learning, free and cued recall, and recognition memory compared to the respective nonexposed subjects; however, in neither group was PTSD associated with impaired retention or ?rapid forgetting.? Additionally, PTSD was not associated with smaller right or left hippocampal volume in either cohort. PTSD is associated with considerable cognitive burden with age. Longitudinal studies of older subjects are warranted to examine whether PTSD is associated with accelerated aging or progressive memory loss.
ER  - 
