
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dennis, Michael L.
AU  - Chan, Ya-Fen
AU  - Funk, Rodney R.
TI  - Development and Validation of the GAIN Short Screener (GSS) for Internalizing, Externalizing and Substance Use Disorders and Crime/Violence Problems Among Adolescents and Adults
JO  - The American Journal on Addictions
VL  - 15
IS  - s1
SN  - 1055-0496
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1080/10550490601006055
DO  - doi:10.1080/10550490601006055
SP  - s80
EP  - s91
PY  - 2006
AB  - The Global Appraisal of Individual Needs (GAIN)1 is a 1?2 hour standardized biopsychosocial that integrates clinical and research assessment for people presenting to substance abuse treatment. The GAIN ? Short Screener (GSS) is 3?5 minute screener to quickly identify those who would have a disorder based on the full 60?120 minute GAIN and triage the problem and kind of intervention they are likely to need along four dimensions (internalizing disorders, externalizing disorders, substance disorders, and crime/ violence). Data were collected from 6,177 adolescents and 1,805 adults as part of 77 studies in three dozen locations around the United States that used the GAIN. For both adolescents and adults the 20-item total disorder screener (TDScr) and its four 5-item sub-screeners (internalizing disorders, externalizing disorders, substance disorders, and crime/violence) has good internal consistency (alpha of .96 on total screener), is highly correlated (r?.84 to .94) with the 123-item longer scales in the full GAIN. The GSS also does well in terms of its receiver operator characteristics (90% or more under the curve in all analyses) and has clinical decision-making cut points with excellent sensitivity (90% or more) for identifying people with a disorder and excellent specificity (92% or more) for correctly ruling out people who did not have a disorder. The GSS has good potential as an efficient screener for identifying people with co-occurring disorders across multiple systems and routing them to the right services and more detailed assessments.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Yilmaz, Serdar
AU  - Isik, Ipek
AU  - Afrouzian, Marjan
AU  - Monroy, Mauricio
AU  - Sar, Aylin
AU  - Benediktsson, Hallgrimur
AU  - McLaughlin, Kevin
TI  - Evaluating the accuracy of functional biomarkers for detecting histological changes in chronic allograft nephropathy
JO  - Transplant International
VL  - 20
IS  - 7
SN  - 0934-0874
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1432-2277.2007.00494.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1432-2277.2007.00494.x
SP  - 608
EP  - 615
KW  - chronic allograft damage index
KW  - chronic allograft nephropathy
KW  - estimated glomerular filtration rate
KW  - protocol biopsy
KW  - receiver operator characteristic curve analysis
KW  - serum creatinine
KW  - surrogate marker
PY  - 2007
AB  - Summary The most common cause of late kidney transplant failure is chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN). Much research has focused on identifying biomarkers (or correlates) that would predict subsequent CAN and allow timely intervention. Functional biomarkers such as serum creatinine and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) have been widely adopted, even though they have not been rigorously evaluated as surrogate markers. This study evaluated serum creatinine and eGFR for predicting the early histopathological changes seen in transplant protocol biopsies (TPB). We prospectively followed 289 kidney transplant patients in the Southern Alberta Transplant Program who had TPB at 6?12?months post-transplant. Tissue samples (n?=?280) were independently examined by renal pathologists. The ability of serum creatinine or eGFR to predict the threshold level for abnormal histopathology was evaluated by calculating the area under the receiver operator characteristic curve. Serum creatinine and eGFR had poor predictive value (most confidence intervals included 0.5, indicating no predictive ability) for ten individual histological measurements (Banff 97 scores), and the Chronic Allograft Damage Index. We conclude that serum creatinine and eGFR have a limited clinical role in predicting the early histopathological changes that precede CAN and should not be used for this purpose.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - ASBMR 26th Annual Meeting M001–M585
JO  - Journal of Bone and Mineral Research
JA  - J Bone Miner Res
VL  - 19
IS  - S1
SN  - 0884-0431
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbmr.5650191306
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbmr.5650191306
SP  - S343
EP  - S484
PY  - 2004
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Harris, Scott M
AU  - Zhang, Lijuan
AU  - Parente, Jody
AU  - Rodeheaver, George T.
AU  - Falla, Timothy J.
TI  - 111 HB-50: A Pre-Clinical Study of a Prophylactic for Wound Infection
JO  - Wound Repair and Regeneration
VL  - 12
IS  - 2
SN  - 1067-1927
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractde.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1067-1927.2004.0abstractde.x
SP  - A29
EP  - A29
PY  - 2004
AB  - Topical prophylaxis against wound infection by an agent that is active against multi-resistant bacteria does not generate resistance and is rapidly cidal would be of great clinical benefit. Peptides of the innate immune system have long been known to protect a wide range of organisms from attack by bacterial and fungal pathogens. Helix BioMedix Inc. has developed a short bioactive peptide antimicrobial modeled after these peptides. HB-50 is an amphipathic cationic alpha-helical peptide that has broad spectrum activity and is rapidly microbicidal. These attributes make HB-50 an ideal candidate for wound infection prophylaxis. In vitro studies have demonstrated HB-50 to be active against both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria killing 5?7 log orders of bacteria within minutes. In addition, this peptide has potent activity against Vancomycin and Mupirocin resistant S. aureus. Preliminary testing of the peptide in a rat abraded skin infection model has shown the peptide?s effectiveness in preventing wound infection while not inhibiting wound healing. Additionally, the HB-50 sequence has been specifically developed to be cost effective to manufacture and therefore is well suited for use as a topical antimicrobial agent.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stewart, Claire A.
AU  - Yehya, Nadir
AU  - Fei, Lin
AU  - Chima, Ranjit S.
TI  - High frequency oscillatory ventilation in a cohort of children with respiratory failure
JO  - Pediatric Pulmonology
JA  - Pediatr Pulmonol
VL  - 53
IS  - 6
SN  - 8755-6863
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ppul.24006
DO  - doi:10.1002/ppul.24006
SP  - 816
EP  - 823
KW  - immune system diseases
KW  - pediatrics
KW  - respiratory insufficiencym
KW  - respiratory tract diseases
KW  - stem cell transplantation
KW  - ventilators mechanical
PY  - 2018
AB  - Abstract Objectives Our objective was to determine survival and variables associated with poor outcomes for patients requiring high frequency oscillatory ventilator (HFOV) support. We tested the ability of markers of oxygenation to predict outcome, specifically, the oxygenation index (OI), both prior to and after initiation of HFOV. We also aimed to examine the effect of immunocompromised condition (IC), and specifically stem cell transplant (SCT), on outcome. Design A retrospective, observational study was performed at two pediatric intensive care units (ICU) and included patients treated with HFOV over a 5 year time period. Oxygenation index and PF ratios were calculated for all patients prior to and at 24?h of HFOV support. Results Of the 134 patients meeting inclusion criteria, mortality was 42% with a higher rate of mortality (P?<?0.001) for both immunocompromised (66%) and SCT patients (83%). Survivors had improved markers of oxygenation at 24?h as compared to non-survivors (P?<?0.001). IC and SCT were the variables most closely associated with mortality. Survivors were placed on HFOV earlier than non-survivors. The OI at 24?h of HFOV support was the best predictor of mortality among markers of oxygenation. Conclusions In this cohort of patients, use of HFOV for pediatric respiratory failure demonstrated a mortality rate in keeping with published data. The presence of an immunocompromised condition was a risk factor for mortality in severe respiratory failure with SCT recipients having the lowest survival rate. The OI at 24?h was the best predictor of mortality, especially in immunocompromised and SCT patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Plenary II: Surgical Controversies 9:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 49
IS  - s7
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2008.01871_20.x
SP  - 497
EP  - 497
PY  - 2008
AB  - Robert E. Gross*, David W. Loring?, John T. Langfitt?, George A. Ojemann?, André Olivier? and Christoph Helmstaedter??*Department of Neurosurgery, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA; ?McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL; ?Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY; ?Department of Neurosurgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; ?Division of Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada and ?Bereich Neuropsychologie, Universitätsklinik für Epileptologie, Bonn, Germany Summary: The surgical treatment of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) by amygdalo-hippocampectomy (AH) has a high likelihood of yielding a seizure-free outcome and associated improvement in quality-of-life. Nevertheless, there are several important areas of controversy with regard to the surgical approach, differences of which may impact the rate of success and the incidence of adverse effects. Cognitive sequelae of temporal lobe surgery may result from (1) resection or transgression of the lateral (neocortical) temporal lobe or the temporal stem, which may lead to impairment in learning, and/or (2) resection of mesial structures, which may lead to decline in material-specific memory. The recent multi-center clinical trial analyzing the predictors of post-surgical quality-of-life will be discussed, including the finding that improvement depends on seizure-freedom irrespective of the occurrence of verbal memory decline. Nevertheless, it is incumbent on surgeons to minimize the occurrence of these cognitive sequelae while maximizing the possibility of seizure-freedom. Several approaches to gain access to the mesial structures will be compared with regard to cognitive outcome, including anterior temporal lobectomy (standard vs. tailored), trans-cortical selective AH and trans-sylvian selective AH, which differ in terms of their disruption of the temporal neocortex and temporal stem. Alternative approaches to the mesial resection will be compared with regard to seizure-free rates and the incidence of post-surgical decline in memory, including tailoring the hippocampal resection to the presence of inter-ictal epileptic spikes vs. performing a standardized resection, and the influence of the amount of hippocampal tissue resected. Open discussion of recent results addressing these important issues will hopefully either propel the field towards consensus, or highlight the need for further randomized clinical trials to improve patient outcome following amygdalo-hippocampectomy for MTLE.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Öz, Ahmet
AU  - Çınar, Tufan
AU  - Hayıroğlu, Mert İlker
AU  - Avşar, Şahin
AU  - Keskin, Muhammed
AU  - Orhan, Ahmet Lütfüllah
TI  - The predictive value of plasma osmolality for in-hospital mortality in patients with acute pulmonary embolism
JO  - The Clinical Respiratory Journal
JA  - Clin Respir J
VL  - 13
IS  - 3
SN  - 1752-6981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/crj.13001
DO  - doi:10.1111/crj.13001
SP  - 174
EP  - 183
KW  - acute pulmonary embolism
KW  - in-hospital mortality
KW  - plasma hyperosmolarity
KW  - plasma osmolality
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Introduction and Objectives Prior studies demonstrated that plasma osmolality may have a predictive value for in-hospital mortality in patients with heart failure and acute coronary syndrome. In addition, plasma glucose and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels, the components of plasma osmolality, have been shown to be an important contributor for in-hospital mortality in acute pulmonary embolism (APE) patients. Hence, the objective of the current study is to evaluate the effect of plasma osmolality upon admission with in-hospital mortality in patients with APE. Methods A total of 245 consecutive intermediate or high risk APE patients were enrolled into the study. The study population was divided into three tertile groups (T1, T2 and T3) based on the increased plasma osmolality. The in-hospital mortality was the primary end-point. Results After adjusting for all risk factors, in-hospital mortality was significantly higher in the T3 group compared to T1 and T2 groups (OR: 3.6, 95% CI: 1.3 to 18.8, P < .001). In addition, the incidence of asystolia, hypotension and cardiogenic shock were significantly higher in the T3 group. An area under the receiver operating characteristic curve value of plasma osmolality for the in-hospital mortality was 0.76 with sensitivity 67.2% and specificity 74.1% 95% CI: (0.66-0.87, P < .001). Conclusion This is the first study to demonstrate that elevated levels of plasma osmolality may have a predictive value for in-hospital mortality in APE patients. Our findings are novel and deserve further studies whether the treatment of higher plasma osmolality may reduce the risk of in-hospital mortality in APE patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Surgery: All Ages
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_24.x
SP  - 253
EP  - 260
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Joshua R. Anderson, 1 Nazih Moufarrij, 1 John Gorecki, and 1 Kore Liow ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wichita, KS ) Rationale: Anterior Medial Temoral Lobe Resection (AMTR) is a procedure widely performed for refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome at tertiary care university-based medical centers. However, increasingly, more tertiary non-university-based community hospitals or university affiliated community hospitals are performing these procedures. There is little available outcome data for AMTR performed at community hospitals. Methods: Retrospective chart review performed on 33 patients who underwent AMTR at the 945 bed tertiary care Via Christi Regional Medical Center in Wichita, Kansas from 2002?2003. All patients were worked up at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center including Video Epilepsy Monitoring, Specialized Epilepsy Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol, FD Glucose Positron Emission Tomography Scans, Intracarotid Amobarbitol Testings, Intracranial Recording by fellowship-trained epileptologist. Neurosurgeon was performing AMTR at academic institution prior to praticing at community hospital. Results: The patient population of 33 people included 16 males and 17 females averaging 32 years of age. All had complex or simple partial seizures. Patients had waited for an average of 20 years before being referred to epilepsy center for surgical evaluation. Patients had failed a average of 3.7 seizure medications, and they were on 2 seizure medications at the time of surgery, and had avarage of 17.9 seizures/month prior to surgery. 21 patients had Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) abnormalities with 11 mesial temporal sclerosis noted. 17 patients had right sided resection while 16 right sided resections. Post-operatively, 31 of 33 (93%) patients had Engel Class I surgical outcome at average follow up duration of 6 months. 30 of 33 (90%) patients are gainfully employed or attending school/college as of last clinic follow up. 27 of the 31 (87%) adult patients who were not able to drive before surgery are now driving. Surgical complications included 1 chronic aphasia, 1 venous infarct in the posterior cerebral artery distribution and 1 scalp infection. Conclusions: AMTR epilepsy surgery performed at tertiary care community hospital in Kansas by fellowship-trained epileptologist and neurosurgeon shows comparable favorable outcome. (Supported by Via Christi Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Wichita, Kansas.) 1,2 Cristine M. Baldauf, 1,2 Arthur Cukiert, 1,2 Jose A. Burattini, 1,2 Pedro P. Mariani, 1 Lauro Seda, 1 Rodio Brandao, 1,2 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 1,2 Carla Baise-Zung, 1,2 Cassio R. Forster, and 1,2 Valeria A. Mello ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The use of valproic acid has been associated to bleeding in some centers and reports. On the other hand, there is no consensus on if valproate should be withdrawn before major surgical procedures, such as neurosurgical operations or not. This paper reviews our experience with refractory epileptic patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures and who were under high dosage of valproate which has not been withdrawn before surgery. Methods: One hundred consecutive refractory epileptic patients (children and adults) who have been receiving at least 1500mg of valproate daily (mean = 2250mg/day) and who have been submitted to epilepsy surgery have been retrospectively reviewed. All patients have been submitted to standard preoperative coagulation tests including platelet function and have no formal abnormal findings (patients with clear preoperative coagulopathies have been excluded from this analysis). Results: Six patients presented with extensive, clearly abnormal, bleeding during surgery; the mean transfusion volume was 3,0 liters. Only 1 patient presented with clinically significant postoperative hemathoma (epidural) that had to be evacuated. These 6 patients had more transfusions and longer hospital permanence, but no difference regarding long-term outcome. All these patients have been receiving at least 2500mg of valproate daily (mean 3000mg/day) and had platelet counts at the lower normal range. The other patients did not differ from patients not receiving valproate regarding intraoperative bleeding, hospital stay, transfusion or outcome. Conclusions: Although not statistically significant, patients receiving 2500mg/day or more of valproic acid and low (although within normal range) platelet counts might be in risk for intraoperative bleeding during major surgical procedures. Considering the potential risk for major neurological complications, we recommend that valproate should be withdrawn in this selected patient population. 1 Jorge A. Gonzalez-Martinez, 2 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 3 Imad M. Najm, 4 Christopher Kellinghaus, and 1 William E. Bingaman ( 1 Neurosurgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Neurosurgery, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Neurology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 4 Neurology, University of Munster, Munster, Germany ) Rationale: Outcome after epilepsy surgery with histopathology correlations indicated that different pathological findings of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) had different outcome. FCD and balloon cells demonstrated best outcome with 75% seizure-free at least 1-year follow-up. Our objective is to correlate seizure outcome after surgery for FCD with pathological findings and variables associated with seizures outcome. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed patients who underwent surgery for drug-resistant partial epilepsy due to FCD and confirmed by histopathologic analysis between 1990?2002 with a minimum of 1-year follow-up. Histological findings were classified as: type Ia, architectural abnormalities, type Ib, architectural abnormalities plus giant or immature neurons, type IIa, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons, and type IIb, architectural abnormalities plus dysmorphic neurons plus balloon cells. Seizure outcome was classified according to Engel's classification. Results: Sixty-two patients were identified, 53% of patients were seizure-free (Engel Ia) and 79% had favorable outcome (Engel I  and 2 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Clinica de Epilepsia de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Extratemporal resection is often larger then temporal lobe resection in patients with refractory epilepsy, especially in patients with normal MRI findings. Cortical resection margins could be restricted by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned resection or due to individual vascular, especially venous, anatomy. This paper discusses our experience while performing extratemporal resections in patients with normal MRI regarding the intraoperative factors limiting cortical resection. Methods: Sixty-one patients with extratemporal refractory epilepsy and normal MRI were studied (both children and adults). All patients have been submitted to invasive neurophysiological investigation by means of chronically implanted subdural electrodes. Planned cortical resection necessarily included the ictal-onset region and the region from which habitual seizures were elicited by stimulation and, whenever possible, the interictal zone. Results: In 11 patients cortical resection has been limited by the presence of eloquent areas within the planned procedure; in 28 patients the cortical resection has been limited by the patient's venous drainage pattern and in 6, it has been limited by both. There was no mortality and no unexpected neurological morbidity. Conclusions: Despite the fact the both the presence of eloquent areas and vascular anatomy could limit the actual cortical resection in extratemporal epileptic patients, the venous' drainage pattern appears to be the most important single factor. In 64% of these patients, the cortical resection suggested by invasive neurophysiological findings would be limited by one of these factors, or both. 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Antonio Donaire, 2 Inés Barceló, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Jordi Rumiá ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ; and 2 Neurology, Hospital de Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Mallorca, Spain ) Rationale: Linear scleroderma in coup de sabre (LSCS) presents as band-like sclerotic skin lesions, usually involving the frontoparietal area of the head. Progression of the disease may result in hemifacial syndrome (identical to idiopathic Parry Romberg syndrome -PRS-). LSCS and PRS may be accompanied focal epilepsy, which is often refractory to medical treatment. Methods: We report two patients, one with LSCs and other with idiopathic PRS who presented with a clinical and pathological picture identical to Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Results: Patient #1 started to have seizures at the age of 3, consisting of clonic twitching of the right arm and bilateral asymmetric tonic seizures. Seizures were pharmacorresistant. Progressive hemiparesis and cognitive decline were noticed by the age of 5, in addition to slight atrophy of the left side of the face, which progressed over the next years. MRIs showed marked and progressive atrophy of the left hemisphere. Presurgical evaluation at the age of 10 showed seizures arising from the left frontocentral region. She underwent a left functional hemispherectomy. Pathology showed massive neuronal cortical loss, reactive astrocitosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and microglial nodules, compatible with RE. She has had a 75% seizure reduction. Patient #2 started to have seizures at the age of 23. Seizures consisted of paresthesias in the left thigh extending to the left arm and left hemiface, sometimes progressing into clonic movements of the left arm. At the age of 18 he had been diagnosed with LSCS (focal lesion over the right frontoparietal area), and left hemidystonia, succesfully treated with botulinum toxin. Seizures were initially controlled with carbamazepine. Seizure frequency suddenly increased at the age of 30 and he developed epilepsia partialis continua involving the left arm. Fluctuating hemiparesis was noticed, first after clusters of seizures and later in between seizures. MRIs showed progressive atrophy of the right hemisphere involving also the right basal ganglia. He underwent presurgical evaluation at the age of 33. Seizures were seen to arise from the right parietal region. He underwent invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes over the right parietal region. He had a focal resection of the right parietal area. He has been seizure free for three months. Pathology showed focal perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates, microglial nodules, focal neuronal loss, and reactive astrocytosis, all suggestive of RE. Conclusions: LSCs and PRS seem to be part of the same spectrum of diseases characterized by progressive facial atrophy and neurological symptoms. Refractory focal epilepsy is common and surgical treament may be indicated. Pathological findings may be identical to chronic encephalitis (RE), suggesting a common autoimmune pathogenesis. 1 Dongwoo John Chang, and 1 Christi DeLemos ( 1 Neurological Surgery, University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA ) Rationale: Decades of successful empirical experience with epilepsy surgery have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of surgical intervention on selected seizure syndromes. Recently, the beneficial effect of anterior temporal lobe resection has been reaffirmed by a prospective randomized clinical trial for patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (New England Journal of Medicine 2001). Despite these findings, only a small minority of potential surgical candidates undergo epilepsy surgery in the United States. This study attempts to determine the attitudes and practice patterns of general neurologists vis-a-vis epileptologists regarding epilepsy treatment in the State of California and in the State of New York. Methods: Confidential e-mail questionnaires were sent to all neurologists in the State of California and in the State of New York. Two groups were queried as comparison cohorts: epileptologists and all other neurologists, including those who have other declared subspecialty interests in neurology. The survey covers all facets of epilepsy management, including questions regarding the definition of medical intractability, attitudes and practice patterns regarding surgical treatment of seizure disorders, the necessity and feasibility of further randomized clinical trials for other surgical procedures for epilepsy, and the perceived relative value of specialized epilepsy treatment centers. Results: A complete analysis of the findings of this study will be presented at the December 2005 meeting of the American Epilepsy Society. The final results of this survey are unavailable at the time of the writing of this abstract. Conclusions: Published data demonstrate the benefit of epilepsy surgery in selected patient subgroups. However, because surgery is perceived to be invasive, it is important to determine the burden of proof that needs to be satisfied in order to allow selected surgical procedures to become primary therapy in epilepsy management as opposed to remaining as options of last resort. 1 Peter Chin, 2 Anne Berg, 3 Susan Spencer, 4 Michael Sperling, 5 Shlomo Shinnar, 6 John Langfitt, 7 Carl Bazil, 8 Thaddeus Walczak, 9 Steven Pacia, 1 Martin Lee, and 1 Barbara Vickrey ( 1 Neuro, UCLA ; 2 BIOS, NIU ; 3 Neuro, Yale ; 4 Neuro, Thomas Jefferson ; 5 Neuro, Montefiore Med. Ctr. ; 6 Neuro, U. of Rochester ; 7 Neuro, Columbia ; 8 MINCEP ; and 9 Neuro, NYU ) Rationale: Patients often suffer detrimental effects of longstanding epilepsy with respect to social adjustment, education and employment before undergoing resective surgery as a last resort. Post-operative employment gains have been shown to enhance the impact of epilepsy surgery, so studying employment patterns may inform interventions aimed at reintegrating patients into society. Methods: At 7 US centers, 396 patients with focal epilepsy enrolled in a cohort study and underwent resective surgery. Eligible patients had refractory epilepsy for at least 2 years, failed 2 or more AED's, and had at least 20 seizures in the 24 months prior to enrollment. Data were collected from interviews and medical records at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months following surgery. Descriptive data on employment pre- and post-surgery were examined. Associations between employment patterns and disability status, race (white vs. non-white) and age < 35 were assessed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Results: The cohort was 48% male; average age was 37 years. Mean duration of intractable epilepsy was 13 years. Prior to surgery 45% of the cohort was regularly employed, including 148 (38%) employed full-time and 27 (7%) part-time. Other categories at baseline included 102 (26%) disabled and unemployed; 45 (11%) unemployed; 27 (7%) in school; 22 (6%) homemakers; 12 (3%) irregular or seasonal work; 7 (2%) retired; 3 (1%) volunteer work only; and 1 other. Two years after surgery 52% of the cohort was employed, representing a net employment gain of 7%. Twenty-two percent of those who were disabled and unemployed before surgery obtained regular work, compared with 23% of those who were unemployed but not disabled (p = .93). Whites were more likely than non-whites to be employed before surgery (49% vs 25%, p = .002) and 24 months after surgery (56% vs. 37%, p = .007) but were not significantly more likely to change employment status at 24 months (p = .35). Age under 35 did not influence work status before surgery (p = .55) and 24 months after surgery (p = .77) or change in employment at 24 months (p = .07). Conclusions: Improved employment status is seen in all categories following epilepsy surgery except the retired (0 of 7). However, overall employment gains remain low after 2 years because 12% of the cohort found work but 5% concurrently lost their jobs. Vocational rehabilitation efforts should be enhanced and should include those who were working prior to surgery but unemployed at follow up. The potential for post-operative employment among those who were formerly disabled from epilepsy does not appear to differ from that of the non-disabled unemployed. Race and age below 35 did not affect post-operative change in employment. (Supported by NIH NINDS RO1 32375?06 and the RWJ Foundation.) 1 Walter J. Hader, 1 Neelan Pillay, 1 S. Terence Myles, 1 Lisa Partlo, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Universtiy of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Selective resection of mesial temporal structures in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy has been advocated in an attempt to minimize temporal neocortical removal associated with standard temporal resections. The benefits of such a strategy have not been not well documented. Methods: A retrospective review of all patients who underwent either selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (SAH) or a standard cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy (CAH) for their intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the University of Calgary was completed. Patients had either a transcortical SAH or CAH, extending to 4.5 cm on the dominant middle temporal gyrus and 6 cm on the non-dominant temporal lobe Results: A total of 72 patients were identified. Forty-eight (67%)had SAH and 24(33%)CAH. No difference in age at onset of epilepsy, side of surgery, seizure types, duration of epilepsy or age at surgery was identified between the two groups Patients undergoing SAH had preoperative evidence of MTS on MRI (81 vs 33%) while 67% of MRIs were normal in patients undergoing CAH. Forty-five (63%) of 72 patients were free of disabling seizures at last follow up. Clinical and formal visual field deficits were more common in CAH than SAH. The duration of stay in hospital was shorter in patients with SAH. Detailed pre and post operative neuropsychological testing was available in 36 patients and revealed no significant differences in those undergoing SAH or CAH Conclusions: Patients treated with SAH for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrate greater evidence of mesial temporal lobe pathology, suffer fewer visual complications and require shorter duration of stay in hospital than patients undergoing more standard CAH. Neuropsychological consequences of temporal lobe surgery in this study were similar in those patients treated with both SAH and CAH. 1,2 Leigh R. Hochberg, 1 Selim Suner, 1 Matthew R. Fellows, 3 Gerhard M. Friehs, and 1,4 John P. Donoghue ( 1 Neuroscience, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; 2 Neurology, Mass. Gen. Hosp./Brigham  3 Clinical Neurosciences, Brown Univ., Providence, RI ; and 4 Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., Foxboro, MA ) Rationale: Cortical physiology has been studied in animals for more than 40 years using single electrodes to record action potentials under different stimulus or behavioral conditions. Microwires or microelectrode arrays have now made it possible to record the activity of dozens to hundreds of individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously. An array of 96 silicon/platinum microelectrodes has been used to record chronically (months to years) from macaque primary motor cortex (M1). This technology, BrainGate, forms the basis for a human neuromotor prosthesis for persons with tetraparesis, now in pilot clinical trial. If the array also provides useful neural signals acutely ? minutes to hours after placement in human cortex ? it could prove valuable for applications in seizure detection, intraoperative monitoring, and neurocritical care. Methods: 4x4 mm arrays of 96 microelectrodes (Cyberkinetics, Inc.) were implanted into macaque M1 or visual cortex (V1, data courtesy of D.L. Ringach). In the M1 experiments, recordings were first attempted in the awake animal the following day. In V1, recordings were obtained beginning 10?20 minutes after array insertion while the animal was sedated with propofol/sufentanil. Single units, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were collected while the animal was sitting in a primate chair (M1) or while retinotopic mapping was performed (V1). Neural signals were transferred to a connector; amplified signals from each electrode were manually separated into data streams and stored digitally. Results: In both animals receiving a M1 array, action potentials, multi-unit waveforms, and LFPs were recorded simultaneously on post-operative day 1. 62 and 29 discriminated units with ?fair? (signal:noise ratio approx. 2 to 4) or better waveforms were recorded in each animal, respectively. LFPs were also observed from an additional 32 and 31 electrodes, respectively. In the 10 V1 animals, LFPs were seen consistently on all electrodes as soon as recording was initiated. Multi-unit waveforms were seen on most electrodes, and a range of 15?70 single units was isolated in each experiment. Conclusions: Microelectrode arrays can record from cortical neuronal ensembles as soon as 10?20 minutes after insertion. It thus may be possible to record human cortical neuronal activity in a variety of acute and subacute settings. Potential studies include high spatial resolution recording of epileptigenic tissue in patients undergoing subdural grid placement (including further investigation of interictal spike physiology and seizure prediction paradigms) and neuronal/LFP activity patterns in tissue at risk for ischemia secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. (Supported by NINDS, VA, DARPA, ONR, Cyberkinetics.) 1 Seo-Young Lee, 1 Ji Hoon Phi, and 1 Chun Kee Chung ( 1 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Proper time, extent, and prognosis of Epilepsy surgery for low grade tumor are not established. This study is aimed at investigation of the surgical outcome and the prognostic factors of epilepsy patients with a brain tumor. Methods: We acquired the data from the epilepsy surgery cohort since May 1995. Inclusion criteria were as follows: patients who had 1) a hemispheric intra-axial neuroepithelial tumor, 2) seizure as an only presenting feature, 3) no neurological deficit at presentation, 4) at least 1 year of follow-up after surgery. We excluded highly malignant tumors (world health organization grade IV). We evaluated the seizure outcome according to Engel's classification. The degree of resection was assessed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Results: 75 patients fulfilled the criteria. Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 1.0?9.3 years). Ganglioglioma (25 cases) was the most common histopathological entity and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (18 cases), oligodendroglioma (13 cases) and diffuse astrocytoma (6 cases) followed. Eight cases of world health organization (WHO) grade III tumors were included. One year after surgery, 77.3% of the patients were seizure-free (class I). Overall seizure-free rate at last follow-up rose up to 85.7% and 72% of those patients were free of anticonvulsants. Favorable seizure outcome was associated with the degree of resection, pathological grade, tumor location that required awake anesthesia, intractability and EEG concordance in univariate analysis. Among theses factors, only degree of resection and pathological grade gained statistical significance in multivariate analysis (p = 0.023, 0.020 respectively). Concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (dual pathology) was found in 9 patients (12%). Resection of both the tumor and mesial structures yielded better outcome than resection of the tumor alone (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Degree of surgical resection and pathological grade of the tumor are the most important factors for seizure outcome in epileptic patients with a brain tumor. In the case of dual pathology, both the tumor and mesial structures should be resected for better seizure outcome. 1 George L. Morris, 1 Christopher M. Inglese, 2 Wade M. Mueller, and 3 Sara J. Swanson ( 1 Regional Epilepsy Center, St Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, WI ; 2 Department Neurosurgery, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ; and 3 Department of Neuropsychology, MCW, Milwaukee, WI ) Rationale: To determine the effect of normal MRI findings on seizure free outcomes following epilepsy surgery Methods: We reviewed the results of epilepsy surgeries performed in Milwaukee from 1991 to 2001. In 362 evaluations of epilepsy, we found 214 surgical resections. We found 176 cases with valid MRI results, surgery locations, and 6 month seizure-free outcomes. We divided patients into seizure-free versus non-seizure-free at their 6 month assessment. Surgery locations were defined as lobar or multi-lobar. MRIs were collapsed into normal or abnormal resuilts. We performed an analsis using Pearson's Chi-squared technique on the relationship between normal versus abnormal MRI results and the patient's seizure outcome, including analysis by surgery location. Results: Of the 176 surgeries performed, 136 were temporal and 22 were frontal. Seizure freedon coccurred in 103 of temporal resections (76%) and 8 of frontal resections (37%). Abnormal MRIs were found in 92 temporal resections (67%) and 15 frontal resections (68%). Seizure freedom was no different in patients with normal versus abnormal MRIs (p = 0.991). Seizure freedom rates for temporal resections were 70% in normal MRI versus 77% in abnormal MRI (p = 0.43). Seizure freedom rates for frontal resections in normal MRI were 42% versus 33% in abnormal MRIs. Conclusions: Normal MRI in the evaluation of localization-related epilepsies did not influence seizure-free rates in our surgical experience. Previous studies suggest the presence of MRI abnormalities improves surgical outcomes and we have previously reported abnormalities of prognostic significance. Patients presenting for epilepsy surgery should not be discouraged that normal MRI findings may influence their outcome. 1,2 Johan Pallud, 1 Ute Haussler, 1 Sophie Hamelin, 2 Bertrand Devaux, and 1 Antoine Depaulis ( 1 U704, Inserm-UJF, Grenoble, France ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Surgical resection of mesial temporal structures is an effective treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, dominant hippocampus resection may ensue with postoperative verbal memory deficit that warrants surgical alternatives to resection attempts. Based on the principle of multiple subpial transections, we developed in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE in mice, a technique of intrahippocampal transection, to disrupt longitudinally projecting axonal circuits that may play a role in generation and propagation of seizures. Methods: C57BL/6 adult mice were stereotactically injected with KA (1 nmol in 50 nl) in the right dorsal hippocampus and equiped for hippocampal and cortical EEG recording. Two hippocampal electrodes were placed along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, 1.4 mm apart, with the anterior one located at the site of KA injection. Three weeks later, when spontaneous recurrent focal discharges occurred, an intrahippocampal transection was stereotactically performed in the transversal plan between the 2 hippocampal electrodes. Seizures were quantified on EEG recordings before transection and during the following 3 weeks. Animals with such transections were compared to sham operated animals and animals with electrolytic lesion of the hippocampus. Upon completion of experiments, histological controls were performed to ascertain the hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, mossy fiber sprouting and granule cell dispersion), the position of the electrodes and the extent of the transection. Results: After a complete hippocampal transection (n = 6), no seizures were recorded at the hippocampal electrode located posterior to the transection, whereas discharges persisted at the KA focus, with a reduction of their occurrence and an increase of their duration. After partial hippocampal transection (n = 6) discharges, without modification of their occurrence and duration, were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes, as well as in the sham group (n = 6). After hippocampal electrolytic lesion (n = 6), no discharges were recorded at both hippocampal electrodes. Conclusions: Complete intrahippocampal transversal transection stops diffusion of discharges within the hippocampus. Moreover, such transections also modify the generation of focal discharges, which are less frequent and of a longer duration as compared to controls. These results suggest a role of longitudinally projecting axonal circuits of the hippocampus in the generation and the diffusion of seizures in this model of MTLE. (Supported by Inserm, Fondation pour la Recherche Medicale, Societe Francaise de Neurochirurgie and Fondation Francaise pour la Recherche sur l'Epilepsie.) 1 Freedom F. Perkins, 1 Dave F. Clarke, 2 Amy Waller, 1 Jeremy D. Slater, 1 Amy L. McGregor, 3 Mark H. McManis, 3 Eduardo M. Castillo, 1 James W. Wheless, and 2 James E. Baumgartner ( 1 Department of Neurology/Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX ; 2 Department of Surgery ; and 3 Department of Neurosurgery ) Rationale: The corpus callosum is the principle pathway linking the cerebral corticies, anatomically and neurophysiologically. Corpus callosotomy (CC) is a palliative surgical procedure used in patients with generalized seizure types. It interrupts bilateral synchrony and is most effective in the treatment of both tonic and atonic seizures. With the introduction of the vagus nerve stimulator, CC has seemingly declined in many epilepsy surgical centers. At our center, though the number of CCs declined in the years 2000 and 2001, in recent years it has regained prominence. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the number of CCs performed between 1995 and March 2005 by a single surgeon (JB). The number of surgeries done on a yearly basis, extent of the procedure (partial versus complete), repeat operations (completion of CC and focal resection after CC) and acute/subacute surgical complications were assessed. Results: The patient's ages ranged from 18 months to 23 years. Eighty-nine patients had a total of ninety-seven surgeries (8 in 1995; 10 in 1996; 14 in 1997; 12 in 1998; 14 in 1999; 1 in 2000; 0 in 2001; 8 in 2002; 15 in 2003; 12 in 2004; and 4 thus far in 2005). Fifty-five patients had partial CCs, thirty patients had complete CCs, and information was unavailable in four. Seven patients with partial CCs returned for completion after their seizures were not adequately controlled; one of whom had to have two further surgeries. Four cases returned for focal resection after a primary focus was identified post CC. Rare complications included a bone flap infection in 2 children; transient diabetes insipidus in 7 patients; and small frontal lobe infarcts in 3 patients. The operating time from incision to complete closure decreased over time (mean duration of approximately 60 minutes). The duration of the hemi-body neglect/disconnection syndrome seen post CC, has also declined over time. Information on time to discharge was available in patients from 1999. The time to discharge decreased over time from a mean of 8.3 days in 1999 to 5.4 in 2004, suggesting a decrease in complication rate. Conclusions: Our institution has seen a resurgence in the number of CCs performed in recent years. It has been effective in rapidly decreasing or eliminating both tonic and atonic seizures. The overall morbidity has been remarkably low. With good patient selection, using an experienced surgeon, the CC should still be entertained as a palliative procedure in patients with tonic and atonic seizures, primarily in patients with frequent seizure inflicted injuries. 1 Vicenta Salanova, 1 Omkar Markand, 1 Robert Worth, and 1 Hema Patel ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Objectives: To determine whether, there are significant differences in the clinical history, evaluation, complication rate and outcome, between younger and older patients undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy Methods: Sixty-four patients 40 years of age or older (group 1) with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) underwent surgery following a comprehensive presurgical evaluation. We compared the history, clinical manifestations, surgical outcome, pathologic diagnosis, surgical outcome and the complication rate with 28 patients with TLE treated surgically at < 18 years of age (group 2, and noted any significant differences) Results: Group 1; 64 patients (40 yrs or >): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 46 yrs, the age at surgery from 40 yrs to 59 yrs. 23% had a history of febrile seizures (FS), 81% had abnormal head MRIs, and 73% had abnormal FDG-PET scans, 18% required invasive recordings. Thirty seven patients underwent right and 27 had left sided resections. There was no surgical mortality, one patient (1.5%) had a mild hemiparesis. 63% became seizure free and 23% had rare seizures (follow-up 1yr to 18 yrs). Group 2; 28 patients (<18 yrs): The age of seizure onset ranged from 1 yr to 13 yrs, and the age at surgery from 8 yrs to 17 yrs. 54% had a history of FS, 62% had abnormal head MRIs, and 94% abnormal FDG-PET scans, 10% required invasive recordings. 54% had mesial temporal sclerosis.There was no surgical mortality, or complications. 79% became seizure free, and 7% had rare seizures (follow-up 1 yr to 18 yrs) Conclusions: While the older patients had a favorable outcome, the younger patients who had a higher incidence of febrile convulsions, and less demand for invasive studies, fared even better, and had no complications, emphasizing the need for earlier surgical treatment 1 Janel Schneider, and 1 Daniela Minecan ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI ) Rationale: Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a relentlessly progressive disease with onset most commonly in childhood. Clinically, RE is characterized by the development of refractory partial seizures and progressive hemiparesis. The exact etiology of RE is not known, although recent scientific studies have implicated an underlying immune mechanism. These studies have led to trials of various immunomodulatory therapies, some of which have shown potential benefit, with improved seizure frequency and delayed progression of neurologic deficit. Yet, this benefit is variable and often short-lived. The only proven curative therapy for RE is functional hemispherectomy. This radical surgery is typically performed after significant neurologic deficit has occurred. Affected children may have the potential for recovery of the motor and language functions of the involved hemisphere. However, a dilemma is faced in deciding on the appropriate treatment course for adolescent or adult onset cases of RE which often have a more variable course and slower progression. In these individuals, a temporizing treatment is desirable as the clinical consequences of functional hemispherectomy may hasten the development of permanent neurologic deficit. There are few reports on the outcome in older RE patients after other, less radical, surgical interventions. Methods: We report a case of late-onset RE, in which the patient had become progressively disabled by her seizures, specifically the development of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) and the adverse effects of high doses of multiple anti-epileptic medications. Despite the severity of her seizures, neurologically, she had no evidence of permanent motor deficit. Results: Intracranial EEG monitoring identified the area involved in her focal motor seizures and focal resection of this area resulted in dramatic improvement of seizure frequency and allowed for the initiation of a medication taper. This resection resulted in minimal motor deficits of the corresponding side and overall the patient experienced a significant improvement in her quality of life. Conclusions: Based on this experience, it may be proposed that focal surgical resection should be considered in older RE patient's who are disabled primarily by their seizures and have relative preservation of neurologic function, thus avoiding the certain deficits from functional hemispherectomy. The duration of this benefit is unclear, although in our patient improvments have been sustained for a period of months. Long-term follow-up will be necesary to compare the benefits of focal surgical resection to other less radical therapies. 1 Teeradej Srikijvilaikul, 2 Tayard Deesudchit, 3 Jarturon Tantivatana, and 4 Chaichon Locharernkul ( 1 Neurosurgery, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 2 Pediatrics, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; 3 Radiology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ; and 4 Neurology, Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Patumwan, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: Intracarotid amobarbital procedure (WADA test) has been widely used to determine the hemisphere for speech dominance and memory function. Recently, there has been a worldwide shortage of the amobarbital despite a need for the test in some epilepsy surgery candidates. There were reports of effective use of propofol for speech and memory testing with safety. We report our experiences in intracarotid propofol test during epilepsy preoperative evaluation. Methods: Between October 2004-March 2005, 4 patients, 1 male and 3 females, underwent intracarotid propofol test for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The patients' ages were 13?23 years. Two patients had left hemispheric epilepsy with congenital right hemiparesis who were considered candidates for functional hemispherectomy. One patient who was ambidexterous had failed left temporal lobectomy and was planning for reoperation. The fourth patient had daily atonic seizures and bisynchronous EEG discharges from a right frontal lobe tumor. The intracarotid propofol test was performed to determine speech dominant hemisphere in the first three patients and to suppress epileptiform discharges in the fourth. The propofol preparation was 10 mg in 10 ml of normal saline solution. Results: The dose of propofol was between 15?18 mg for each injection. We were able to identify speech dominant hemisphere in all 3 patients. Two patients who underwent left functional hemispherectomy had no postoperative language deficit. Another patient showed left sided speech dominance after left sided injection. He then underwent subdural electrode recording. After cortical stimulation mapping, the speech areas were found on the same hemisphere shown by propofol test. In the patient with right frontal lobe tumor, bisynchronous spike-and-waves were completely suppressed after right sided injection, but unchanged after injection to the left. After tumor resection, she had fewer seizures then became seizure free on the fifth month. There were no complications during and after the tests in all subjects. Conclusions: Intracarotid propofol test can be used for epilepsy preoperative evaluation. The results of the test were confirmed by surgical outcome in our cases. 1 Kenou Van Rijckevorsel, 1 Cécile Grandin, 1 Marianne De Tourtchaninoff, 1 Geraldo Vaz, and 1 Christian Raftopoulos ( 1 Neurology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; Neuroradiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium; and Neurosurgery, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium ) Rationale: Mesiotemporal epilepsy refractory to antiepileptic drugs can be treated by surgery. Temporal lobectomy and selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy are the two main procedures. Both techniques give same seizure outcome. However, there are no studies that compare the seizure outcome with the amount of the resection and the etiology of the epilepsy. This is the aim of this report. Methods: Among 37 temporal epilepsy surgery cases, 26 patients benefit from a selective trans-sylvian amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Each patient has a pre- and postsurgical evaluation with neurological examination, cognitive testing, RMI and visual field exploration. The amount of resection was calculated on RMI T2 coronal slides (3 mm thickness, 0.3 mm gap) acquired perpendicularly to the hippocampus. For the hippocampus, the% of resected length was calculated and for the amygdala, the% of resected volume was visually evaluated. Seizure outcome was evaluated according to the Engel's classification. Results: 1 patient, with per-surgery hemorrhage, had temporary arm paresis and speech difficulties, left temporal hemianopsia and right quadranopsia, 8 additional patients have a partial visual field defect (superior quadranopsia) at the short term exam. Among the 26 patients, 22 patients have one year of follow-up or more. 14 were in Engel class I, 6 in class II and 2 in class III. There was no correlation between the seizure outcome and the extent of removal which varied from less than 1/3 to more than 2/3 of the hippocampus length and from less than half to complete removal for the amygdala. The two patients with class III outcome have a complete resection of the lesion, the amygdala and the hippocampus. For both patients, the etiology was tumoral: for one patient it was the third surgery and for the other patient, there was a 20-year evolution of refractory seizures. Conclusions: There is no correlation between the amount of hippocampal resection and the seizure outcome. This could be partially explained by the fact that for some patients, the epileptic focus is located into the amygdala or has an extent outside the limbic structures and/or the macroscopic lesion. 1 Mary Ann Werz, 2 Mark L. Cohen, 3 Robert Maciunas, 4 Barbara E. Swartz, 1 Pamela Lang, 1 Michael Schoenberg, 1 Gaotami Rao, and 5 Mark S. Scher ( 1 Neurology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 2 Pathology, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 3 Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ; 4 Neurology, Hoag Hospital Epilepsy Center, Newport Beach, CA ; and 5 Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve Univ; University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: The pathogenesis of partial epilepsy is poorly understood. We have reviewed our adult epilepsy surgical cases for potential perinatal and childhood contributors to the development of epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective review of surgical cases since 2000 included age of seizure onset, age at surgery, seizure type and frequency, lobe(s) resected, pathology, MRI/PET, neuropsychology, and surgical outcome. Patients, and when possible their mothers, were called for childhood history. Birth records were requested from outside hospitals. Queries included survey of risk factors in the mother, fetus, neonate, infant, and child. Results: Forty-six epilepsy surgery cases, excluding malignant tumors, were reviewed. The median age in years at surgery was 45 (range 16?74). The median duration of intractable epilepsy was 15 years with a range of several months to 60 years. Average full scale IQ was 95 (SD = 15.2). Resections were of the temporal lobe in 33 (29 standard, 4 neocortical), frontal lobe in 5, parietal lobe in 3, and multilobar in 5. Pathology revealed dysplastic etiologies in 20 patients: focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) in 12 (Palmini classification Ia n = 4, Ib n = 3, IIa n = 5), DNET in 6 and ganglioglioma in 2. Other lesions identified were: vascular malformations (7), pilocytic astrocytoma (1), meningioangiomatosis (1), osteoma (1), and pathogen-free granuloma (1). Mesial temporal sclerosis was co-identified in 7 cases of FCD (Type I, IIa) and 9 cases in isolation. MTS was associated with febrile seizures, status epilepticus and/or meningitis in 9 of 17 cases (as infants in 6). Infantile spasms was associated with one case of Type IIa FCD. Significant maternal risk factors were not identified though a maternal history of neurofibramatosis (NF1) was identified in one case of MTS. Isolated MTS was associated with low birth weight (1800 g) in one and with high birth weight (above 4000 g) in 4 patients. Conclusions: Presumed congenital structural abnormalities of the brain were identified in 60% of our adult surgical series: 26% FCD (15% Type I and 11% Type IIa), 17%?extreme FCD? (DNET/ganglioglioma), 15% vascular malformations, and 2% meningioangiomatosis. Isolated MTS or non-specific gliosis occurred in 34%. These data suggest that developmental dysgenesis of cerebral cortex may be a major cause of adult epilepsy. The timing of microdysgenesis in development as well as genetic and environmental factors in FCD need to be identified. 1 Alan J. Wilensky, 1 Carl B. Dodrill, and 2 George A. Ojemann ( 1 Department of Neurology/Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA ; and 2 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ) Rationale: A patient's outcome after epilepsy surgery is usually apparent by one year. Those who have been seizure-free since surgery usually remain so unless they attempt to stop all of their antiepileptic medication. About half of those who stop their medications do so successfully and remain seizure free. However, there is a very small group of patients who are seizure free, off or on medication, who have recurrent seizures many years after their surgery. This study was undertaken to see if there were any common characteristics to this small group of patients. Methods: Various data bases at the University of Washington were queried to identify patients who had been seizure free for at least five years after surgery. We then identified any patients in that group for whom there were data indicating they had had a recurrence of their seizures. Actual clinical records were then reviewed to confirm long-term seizure freedom and recurrence and data were abstracted from those records. Results: Nine patients were seizure free for at least 9 years after surgery and then relapsed. One additional patient relapsed in the 6th year year after surgery. An 11th patient developed simple partial seizures after stopping medications after year 4 and had complex partial seizures starting in year 10. Age at onset ranged from 2 months to 19 years and surgery occurred 5 to 29 years later. Seizures recurred as late as 38 years after surgery in one patient and and 22, and 23 years later in two others. Although 58% of all of our resections are left-sided, only 37% of this group had left sided operations. Two of those had right -sided language so that 82% of this group were operated on in the non-language dominant hemisphere. In a comparable group of 12 patients who remained seizure free only 42% had non-dominasntr resections. All of these patients had temporal resections as part or all of their surgery. However, atypical for our temporal resection patients as a whole, 9 of the 11 did not have hippocampal resections. Long term 9 of 11 of these patients have continued to have seizures at last follow-up. Two have had a second surgery and one of those still has frequent seizures. Conclusions: In this small group of patients with late recurrence of seizures after apparent successful surgery two findings stand out. First, this group has an excess proportion, compared to our population as a whole, of non-dominant hemisphere resections. Second, this group had only 2 patients in whom hippocampal resections were undertaken whereas the majority of our temporal operations include hippoxcampal resection. This finding is consistent with other evidence that extent of hippocampal resection correlates with outcome. These patients may have remained seizure free if their original surgeries had been more complete. 1 Chong H. Wong, 1 Julie Birkett, 1,2 Mark Dexter, 1 Ernest Somerville, 1,2 Raymond Chaseling, 1 Michael Fearnside, and 1,2 Andrew Bleasel ( 1 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia ) Rationale: Intracranial EEG recording is necessary in a subset of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery. This study evaluates the risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality during video-EEG monitoring with subdural electrodes in patients with intractable partial epilepsy. Methods: Retrospective audit of all patients undergoing monitoring with intracranial electrodes at Westmead Hospital and The Children's Hospital at Westmead between 1988?2004. The following variables were recorded: epilepsy syndrome, anticonvulsant medication, duration of implantation surgery and intracranial monitoring, side and site of grid implantation, number of grids and electrodes, size of grids, frequency of clinical seizures, previous craniotomy, other medical conditions and length of hospital stay. Results: 296 patients with refractory epilepsy underwent epilepsy surgery during this period. 79 intracranial monitoring sessions were performed in 71 patients (49 males; median age: 24 years; IQR 17; 35, range 6?54 years) to further localize the ictal onset. 69% had extratemporal epilepsy and 44% were non-lesional. Median monitoring duration 11 days (IQR 7; 14). 82% of the monitored patients underwent epilepsy resection. 75% had seizure outcome of Engel 1 or 2 with a median follow up period of 31 months. Overall complication rate was 31.6%. 26.6% were directly related to subdural electrode implantation; 13.9% transient complications requiring no treatment, 8.9% transient complications requiring treatment, 1.3% permanent and there were 2 deaths (2.5%). Specific complications included osteomyelitis (2.5%), haemorrhage (7.6%), cerebral infarction (3.8%), transient neurological deficit (5.1%) and pulmonary emboli or deep venous thrombosis (3.8%). The 2 deaths were both related to raised intracranial pressure (1 venous infarction, 1 unexplained) and occurred within 48 hrs of implantation. Complications were associated with greater number of electrodes (p < 0.001), greater number of strip/grid arrays (0.039), 8x8 grids (0.001) and longer duration of monitoring (0.029). Only the total number of electrodes was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001) when fitted into a multiple logistic regression. No significant correlation existed between complications and seizure frequency, interhemispheric site, repositioning of electrodes or age. Conclusions: The transient complication rate in this series is comparable to previously reported series1. We found increased morbidity and mortality were associated with a greater number of electrodes. The results of this audit are being used to modify our implantation and monitoring protocols. REFERENCE 1.?Hamer HM, Morris HH, Mascha EJ et al Complications of invasive video-EEG monitoring with subdural grid electrodes. Neurology 2002: 58; 97?103 (Supported by Sanofi Aventis Australia.) 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh, 1 Albert Hinn, 1 Bradley Vaughn, 1 Melanie Adams, 1 Spencer Weig, 1 Michael Tennison, 1 Robert Greenwood, and 2 Eldad Hadar ( 1 Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ; and 2 Department of Neurosurgery, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Epilepsy Surgery offers a cure for selective patients with refractory seizures. After successful epilepsy surgery some patients can be successfully tapered off anticonvulsants potentially improving their quality of life further. Although Epileptologists tend to withdraw anticonvulsants many months or even years after successful surgery, systemic studies about the best timing for anticonvulsant withdrawal are lacking. We present our experience with rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants in a group of patients after epilepsy surgery Methods: Patients with epilepsy surgery followed in our Epilepsy Surgery Program were offered a trail of anticonvulsants withdrawal 6 weeks after epilepsy surgery with complete withdrawal at 12 weeks. Recurrence of seizures was monitored. Patients with early postoperative seizures, more than 4 anticonvulsants, history of generalized status epilepticus and patients on phenobarbital were excluded. Results: Among 27 patients with epilepsy surgery rapid withdrawal of anticonvulsants was attempted in 15 (9 Females). Age ranged between 6?57 years (mean 28.3 years). Eight patients had temporal lobectomy, 6 extartemporal resections and 1 with hemishperectomy. Pathology was consistent with mesiotemporal sclerosis in 4, focal cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2, atrophy and gliosis is 2 and normal in 3. Seizures recurred in 8 of the 15 patients, 4 during and 4 after complete drug withdrawal. Among the 8 patients with seizure recurrence 4 continued to have seizures after reinstating anticonvulsants while seizures stopped in the other 4 after restarting or increasing anticonvulsants. Seven patients remained seizure free with a mean follow-up of 9 months postsurgery (6?19 months). Pathological examination of the patients who remained seizure free was cortical dysplasia in 4, low grade tumor in 2 and one patient with mesiotemporal sclerosis. Drug withdrawal was not successful in any patient with normal postoperative histopathology. Conclusions: In selective patients with epilepsy surgery pathological findings may be a factor in successful early withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Further studies are needed to define patients who could benefit from early anticonvulsant withdrawal after epilepsy surgery and the effects of that on quality of life. 1 Tammy N. Tsuchida, 1 Heidi E. Kirsch, 2 Charles E. McCulloch, 1 Gilbert A.W. Woo, and 1 Paul A. Garcia ( 1 Neurology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ; and 2 Biostatistics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, CA ) Rationale: Many epileptologists advocate early surgical treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and young adults. This study was performed to determine if there is a relationship between epilepsy duration prior to epilepsy surgery and successful surgical outcomes in patients with childhood-onset epilepsy. Methods: We performed secondary data analysis of a tertiary care epilepsy surgery database selecting for patients with onset of epilepsy < 18 years old and with their first resective epilepsy surgery. Outcomes at one or more years after surgery were classified as good if the patient was rated Engel Class (EC) 1and poor if rated EC 2?4. Predictors included race, sex, age at onset of epilepsy, age at time of surgery, duration of epilepsy prior to surgery, IQ prior to surgery, MRI findings, bilateral or unilateral MRI findings, Pathology, and Diagnosis. Diagnosis was determined by review of the mri and pathology reports by raters who were blinded to the surgical outcome. Results: 188 patients met criteria for inclusion and had sufficient information for analysis. Mean age at onset 7.46 +/? 5.73 y. Mean age at surgery 30 +/? 11 y. Diagnoses were MTS (60%), cortical malformation (8.5%), tumor (4.2%), and gliosis (7.4%). Patients with cortical malformation, tumor or vascular malformation had a median duration of 13 years. Patients with MTS or gliosis had a median duration of 25 years. If data for patients with one year post surgical followup was analyzed utilizing chi-square analysis, unilateral mri abnormalities were predictive of good outcome (p = 0.035). Duration, age at onset, and age at surgery were divided into quartiles for analysis. If only the diagnosis MTS was analyzed, the oldest quartile of age at surgery (40?61y) was associated with poorer outcomes (p = 0.034). Cox survival analysis of time to EC3 for patients with longer follow-up showed that patients with intermediate disease durations had lower hazards than the shortest durations (0.5y to 13y compared to 14y to 22y, HR = .52, p = 0.047; 0.5y to 13y compared to 23y to 32y, HR = 0.60, p = 0.094). The longest disease durations (32.85y to 51y) had hazards comparable to the shortest (HR = 1.02, p = 0.95). When restricted to MTS diagnosis, this relationship persisted (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Our study suggests that children with MTS are less likely to become seizure free than young adults with the same diagnosis. We suspect that the relationship is not causative; rather, young children may have MTS on a different pathophysiological basis. In contrast, it is possible that patients with very long epilepsy duration may have worse outcomes due to the long-term effect of seizures. Along with prior studies of clinical and radiological findings and surgical outcome, this study should be taken into consideration in counseling patients on the likelihood of surgical success. (Supported by NS01692NIH/NINDS Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award (NSADA).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Allen, S. E.
AU  - Rosanowski, S. M.
AU  - Stirk, A. J.
AU  - Verheyen, K. L. P.
TI  - Description of veterinary events and risk factors for fatality in National Hunt flat racing Thoroughbreds in Great Britain (2000–2013)
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 49
IS  - 6
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.12676
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.12676
SP  - 700
EP  - 705
KW  - horse
KW  - racehorse
KW  - injuries
KW  - death
KW  - incidence
PY  - 2017
AB  - Summary Background No large-scale studies have described veterinary events occurring in National Hunt (NH) flat racing or investigated risk factors for fatality in this race type. Objectives To describe injuries and conditions requiring veterinary attendance on race day and to determine risk factors for racehorse fatality in NH flat racing in Great Britain. Study design Retrospective cohort study (2000?2013). Methods Information from all NH flat races held over the study period, including horse, race and veterinary event report details, was combined. Veterinary events were described by type and anatomical structure(s) affected. Incidence per 1000 starts were calculated for all veterinary events and by event group, and stratified by certain horse- and race-level variables. Risk factors for fatality were determined using multivariable logistic regression modelling. Results Over the 14-year study period, 544 veterinary events were recorded, providing an overall incidence of 13.0 events per 1000 starts. The most common events were bone injuries (23.5%) and tendon or ligament injuries (16.4%). A fatal outcome was recorded for 117 horses (21.5% of all events), resulting in an incidence of 2.9 deaths per 1000 starts. Odds of fatality were 4.33 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.59?11.82; P = 0.02) times higher in races restricted to conditional jockeys compared to those that were not. Horses starting in their first race experienced 1.44 (95% CI 1.00?2.08; P = 0.05) times the odds of death compared to those that had raced before. Main limitations Classification of veterinary events frequently relied upon presumptive diagnosis. Conclusions This study provides a benchmark for the ongoing surveillance of veterinary events in NH flat racing. These results support the phasing out of NH flat races restricted to conditional jockeys and highlight the need for further work to establish why NH flat racing Thoroughbreds competing in their first race are at increased risk for death.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chidlow, H.
AU  - Giguère, S.
AU  - Sanchez, L. C.
TI  - Factors associated with long-term athletic outcome in Thoroughbred neonates admitted to an intensive care unit
JO  - Equine Veterinary Journal
JA  - Equine Vet J
VL  - 51
IS  - 6
SN  - 0425-1644
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.13125
DO  - doi:10.1111/evj.13125
SP  - 716
EP  - 719
KW  - horse
KW  - neonatology
KW  - foal
KW  - outcome
KW  - racing performance
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary Background Limited information exists on the long-term outcome of foals that survive following hospitalisation for disease as a neonate. Significant financial investment is required to raise foals to racing age, therefore improved understanding of factors that affect long-term outcome and future athletic performance is important. Objectives To analyse racing performance in Thoroughbred foals hospitalised as neonates, compared with their maternal siblings and to determine factors associated with failure to race and racing performance. Study design Retrospective cohort study. Methods Medical records of Thoroughbred foals admitted to a neonatal intensive care unit between 1982 and 2008 were reviewed. Surviving foals of registered mares were included. Data including the foal's primary and concurrent diseases were extracted from the medical record. Racing records for foals and maternal siblings were evaluated. Multivariable logistic regression was used to identify disorders associated with failure to race and decreased racing performance. Results Two-hundred and sixty-nine of 454 previously hospitalised foals (59%) raced. Sixty-eight percent (269/394) of registered foals raced, compared with 79% (697/880) of registered siblings. Foals with prematurity/dysmaturity (P = 0.002) and those with orthopaedic disease (P = 0.007) were significantly less likely to race than their siblings. Premature/dysmature foals also had significantly fewer starts and wins and lower earnings than siblings. Foals with orthopaedic disorders had a lower percentage of wins, relative to their siblings. There was no significant association between racing performance and other disease categories. Main limitations Small sample size in some disease categories and retrospective nature of study. Conclusions Foals hospitalised due to prematurity/dysmaturity or orthopaedic disorders were less likely to race than their maternal siblings and those that did race had decreased performance.
ER  - 

AU  - Diner, Barry
C7  - pp. 200-213
TI  - Atrial Fibrillation
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444303674.ch20
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781444303674.ch20
SP  - 200-213
KW  - Atrial fibrillation (AF)
KW  - Cochrane Library: atrial fibrillation AND cardioversion
KW  - MEDLINE: atrial fibrillation AND cardioversion. Limited to EBM reviews
KW  - rate control trials of calcium channel blockers versus placebo for subjects with AF
KW  - AHRQ Evidence-Based Practice Centers guidelines on management of acute AF
KW  - Cochrane Library: atrial fibrillation AND cardioversion AND electric countershock
KW  - biphasic to monophasic electrical cardioversion comparison in patients with AF
KW  - anticoagulation versus antiplatelet therapy
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Clinical scenario Background Clinical questions General search strategy Critical review of the literature Conclusions Acknowledgments Conflicts of interest References
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lambert, Edward
AU  - Denys, Marie-Astrid
AU  - Poelaert, Filip
AU  - Everaert, Karel
AU  - Lumen, Nicolaas
TI  - Validated uroflowmetry-based predictive model for the primary diagnosis of urethral stricture disease in men
JO  - International Journal of Urology
JA  - Int. J. Urol.
VL  - 25
IS  - 9
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/iju.13730
DO  - doi:10.1111/iju.13730
SP  - 792
EP  - 798
KW  - benign prostatic hyperplasia
KW  - diagnosis
KW  - non-invasive
KW  - urethral stricture disease
KW  - uroflowmetry
PY  - 2018
AB  - Objectives To define a uroflowmetry-based non-invasive predictive tool for the primary diagnosis of urethral stricture disease. Methods A total of 300 male patients (150 with urethral stricture disease and 150 with benign prostatic obstruction), treated surgically between 2005 and 2015, and 75 healthy males were included in this study. Patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups (75 benign prostatic obstruction patients and 75 urethral stricture disease patients in each group). A model, able to objectively differentiate between benign prostatic obstruction and urethral stricture disease, was created by use of original and hybrid uroflowmetry variables in logistic regression in group A (test group). Receiver operating characteristics curve analysis was used for validation in group B (validation group) and to calculate cut-off values to distinguish healthy individuals from benign prostatic obstruction as a result of urethral stricture disease. Results Receiver operating characteristics area under the curve values of the created model were 0.841 (0.777?0.905) and 0.807 (0.735?0.879) in groups A and B, respectively. Optimal cut-off values were 2.2847 and 0.1182 to distinguish healthy individuals versus benign prostatic obstruction and benign prostatic obstruction versus urethral stricture disease. Conclusions A triphasic uroflowmetry-based model is able to objectively distinguish voiding patterns of healthy individuals, benign prostatic obstruction and urethral stricture disease. The probability of urethral stricture disease can be objectively calculated for each individual patient based on a non-invasive uroflowmetry test. Uroflowmetry pattern interpretation by use of statistical models could become a new standard.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 研修医・学生セッション
JO  - Nihon Kyukyu Igakukai Zasshi: Journal of Japanese Association for Acute Medicine
JA  - Nihon Kyukyu Igakukai Zasshi: Japanese Journal of Japanese Association for Acute Medicine
VL  - 29
IS  - 10
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jja2.12346
DO  - doi:10.1002/jja2.12346
SP  - 417
EP  - 448
PY  - 2018
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Mian, Amir
AU  - Becton, David
AU  - Saylors, Robert
AU  - James, Laura
AU  - Tang, Xinyu
AU  - Bhutta, Adnan
AU  - Prodhan, Parthak
TI  - Biomarkers for risk stratification of febrile neutropenia among children with malignancy: A pilot study
JO  - Pediatric Blood & Cancer
JA  - Pediatr. Blood Cancer
VL  - 59
IS  - 2
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pbc.24158
DO  - doi:10.1002/pbc.24158
SP  - 238
EP  - 245
KW  - biomarkers
KW  - febrile neutropenia
KW  - outcomes
KW  - sepsis
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Background Patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy remain at increased risk for developing febrile neutropenia (FN). For this heterogeneous population, a biomarker based risk stratification of FN patients may be a useful clinical tool. We hypothesized that serum biomarkers during initial presentation of an FN event could be predictive of subsequent clinical outcome. Procedure Eighty-nine FN events from 36 non-consecutive subjects were analyzed. ?High-risk? FN criteria included prolonged hospitalization (≥7 days), admission to pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) or a microbiology confirmed bacteremia. Patients with ?low risk? FN had none of the above. Biomarkers measured during the first 2 days of FN hospitalization were analyzed and correlated with respective clinical outcome. Results Of the 89 FN events, 44 (49%) fulfilled pre-defined high-risk criteria and 45 (51%) were low-risk. Procalcitonin level (>0.11?ng/ml) was found to be associated with the high-risk FN outcome with sensitivity of 97%. With an increase in log scale by 1, the odds of being high-risk FN increased twofold. Hs-CRP >100?mg/L had sensitivity of 88% in predicting high-risk FN. The odds of a high-risk FN event increased by approximately 1.8-fold with an increase in the log scale of hs-CRP by 1 (10-fold). In univariate analysis, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 were statistically significant and associated with high-risk FN. However, no statistically significant difference was found for IL-1α, sIL-2Ra, IL-3, or TNF-α. Conclusions Biomarkers with appropriate critical threshold values may be a useful clinical tool for appropriate risk stratification of children with FN. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2012;59:238?245. ? 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Fei, Y.
AU  - Hu, J.
AU  - Li, W.-Q.
AU  - Wang, W.
AU  - Zong, G.-Q.
TI  - Artificial neural networks predict the incidence of portosplenomesenteric venous thrombosis in patients with acute pancreatitis
JO  - Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis
JA  - J Thromb Haemost
VL  - 15
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jth.13588
DO  - doi:10.1111/jth.13588
SP  - 439
EP  - 445
KW  - forecasting
KW  - logistic regression
KW  - neural network models
KW  - pancreatitis
KW  - portosplenomesenteric venous thrombosis
PY  - 2017
AB  - Essentials Predicting the occurrence of portosplenomesenteric vein thrombosis (PSMVT) is difficult. We studied 72 patients with acute pancreatitis. Artificial neural networks modeling was more accurate than logistic regression in predicting PSMVT. Additional predictive factors may be incorporated into artificial neural networks. Summary Objective To construct and validate artificial neural networks (ANNs) for predicting the occurrence of portosplenomesenteric venous thrombosis (PSMVT) and compare the predictive ability of the ANNs with that of logistic regression. Methods The ANNs and logistic regression modeling were constructed using simple clinical and laboratory data of 72 acute pancreatitis (AP) patients. The ANNs and logistic modeling were first trained on 48 randomly chosen patients and validated on the remaining 24 patients. The accuracy and the performance characteristics were compared between these two approaches by SPSS17.0 software. Results The training set and validation set did not differ on any of the 11 variables. After training, the back propagation network training error converged to 1 ? 10?20, and it retained excellent pattern recognition ability. When the ANNs model was applied to the validation set, it revealed a sensitivity of 80%, specificity of 85.7%, a positive predictive value of 77.6% and negative predictive value of 90.7%. The accuracy was 83.3%. Differences could be found between ANNs modeling and logistic regression modeling in these parameters (10.0% [95% CI, ?14.3 to 34.3%], 14.3% [95% CI, ?8.6 to 37.2%], 15.7% [95% CI, ?9.9 to 41.3%], 11.8% [95% CI, ?8.2 to 31.8%], 22.6% [95% CI, ?1.9 to 47.1%], respectively). When ANNs modeling was used to identify PSMVT, the area under receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.849 (95% CI, 0.807?0.901), which demonstrated better overall properties than logistic regression modeling (AUC = 0.716) (95% CI, 0.679?0.761). Conclusions ANNs modeling was a more accurate tool than logistic regression in predicting the occurrence of PSMVT following AP. More clinical factors or biomarkers may be incorporated into ANNs modeling to improve its predictive ability.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kaneda, H.
AU  - Waddell, T. K.
AU  - De Perrot, M.
AU  - Bai, X.-H.
AU  - Gutierrez, C.
AU  - Arenovich, T.
AU  - Chaparro, C.
AU  - Liu, M.
AU  - Keshavjee, S.
TI  - Pre-Implantation Multiple Cytokine mRNA Expression Analysis of Donor Lung Grafts Predicts Survival After Lung Transplantation in Humans
JO  - American Journal of Transplantation
VL  - 6
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.01204.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.01204.x
SP  - 544
EP  - 551
KW  - Cytokine mRNA expression
KW  - lung transplantation
KW  - multivariate analysis
KW  - primary graft dysfunction
KW  - real-time RT-PCR
PY  - 2006
AB  - While current donor selection with clinical findings is generally effective, the imprecise nature of the assessment forces clinicians to remain on the conservative side. A reliable biological marker would assist donor selection and would improve donor organ utilization. We collected biopsies from 169 donor lungs before implantation. Expression levels of IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, TNF-α, IFN-? and IL-1? were measured by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). Seventeen cases died within 30 days after transplantation. No donor factor was significantly associated with 30-day mortality. Univariate analysis of the 84 cases for development of the prediction model showed that IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α and IL-1? were risk factors for mortality and IL-10 and IFN-? were protective factors. We analyzed the cytokine expression ratios of risk to protective cytokines. A stepwise logistic regression for 30-day mortality demonstrated that a model containing the ratio of IL-6/IL-10 was the most predictive (p = 0.0013). When applied to the remaining 85 cases for validation, the test of model fit was significant (p = 0.039). Using the cytokine ratio, we were able to define three risk groups with striking differences in survival (p = 0.0003). Multi-cytokine analysis of the donor lung graft with qRT-PCR shows significant promise as a strategy to biologically evaluate the donor lung prior to implantation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - O'Neill, D. G.
AU  - Scudder, C.
AU  - Faire, J. M.
AU  - Church, D. B.
AU  - McGreevy, P. D.
AU  - Thomson, P. C.
AU  - Brodbelt, D. C.
TI  - Epidemiology of hyperadrenocorticism among 210,824 dogs attending primary-care veterinary practices in the UK from 2009 to 2014
JO  - Journal of Small Animal Practice
JA  - J Small Anim Pract
VL  - 57
IS  - 7
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.12523
DO  - doi:10.1111/jsap.12523
SP  - 365
EP  - 373
PY  - 2016
AB  - OBJECTIVES To estimate prevalence and risk factors for diagnosis with hyperadrenocorticism in dogs attending primary-care veterinary practices in the UK from 2009 to 2014. METHODS Cases were identified by searching the de-identified electronic patient records from UK primary-care veterinary practices participating in the VetCompass Programme. RESULTS The estimated prevalence for hyperadrenocorticism diagnosis in dogs was 0·28% (95% confidence interval: 0·25 to 0·31). Multivariable logistic regression analysis revealed four associated risk factors: breed, breed-relative bodyweight, age and insurance status. The bichon frise had 6·5 times the odds (95% CI: 3·5 to 12·1, P<0·001) of hyperadrenocorticism compared with crossbreds. Dogs weighing more than or equal to their breed mean had 1·7 times the odds (95% CI: 1·3 to 2·3, P<0·001) of hyperadrenocorticism compared with dogs weighing less than the breed mean. Dogs aged 12·0 years and above showed 5·7 times the odds (95% CI: 3·7 to 8·7, P<0·001) of hyperadrenocorticism compared with dogs aged 6·0 to 8·9 years. Insured dogs had 4·0 times the odds (95% CI: 2·8 to 5·6, P<0·001) of hyperadrenocorticism compared with non-insured dogs. CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE This is the first epidemiological report of a non-referral hospital population of dogs diagnosed with hyperadrenocorticism in the UK and describes important breed, age and bodyweight associations with this disorder which may improve diagnosis and enhance understanding of the underlying pathophysiology.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Uusitalo-Seppälä, R.
AU  - Huttunen, R.
AU  - Tarkka, M.
AU  - Aittoniemi, J.
AU  - Koskinen, P.
AU  - Leino, A.
AU  - Vahlberg, T.
AU  - Rintala, E. M.
TI  - Soluble urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor in patients with suspected infection in the emergency room: a prospective cohort study
JO  - Journal of Internal Medicine
JA  - J Intern Med
VL  - 272
IS  - 3
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2796.2012.02569.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2796.2012.02569.x
SP  - 247
EP  - 256
KW  - biomarker
KW  - case fatality
KW  - emergency room
KW  - infection
KW  - severe sepsis
KW  - suPAR
PY  - 2012
AB  - Abstract Objectives The soluble form of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (suPAR) was evaluated as an early prognostic marker of sepsis in patients with suspected infection. Design A single-centre prospective cohort study. Methods The cohort comprised 539 patients in the emergency department with suspected infection: 59 without systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and without bacterial infection (group 1), 68 with bacterial infection and without SIRS (group 2), 54 with SIRS and without bacterial infection (group 3), 309 with sepsis (SIRS and bacterial infection) and without organ failure (group 4) and 49 with severe sepsis (SIRS, bacterial infection and organ failure) (group 5). suPAR was measured on admission using a commercial solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results The median soluble form of the receptor (suPAR) concentrations in groups 1?5 were 4.7, 5.0, 4.4, 4.8 and 7.9 ng mL?1, respectively (P < 0.001). The levels were significantly higher in nonsurvivors compared with survivors (8.3 vs. 4.9 ng mL?1, P < 0.001) and in patients with severe sepsis (group 5) compared with those in the other groups (7.9 vs. 4.8 ng mL?1, P < 0.001). Area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUCROC ) for the prediction of case fatality was 0.79 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.72?0.86, P < 0.0001) and 0.75 for severe sepsis (95% CI: 0.68?0.81, P < 0.0001). At a cut-off level of 6.4 ng mL?1, suPAR had 76% sensitivity and 69% specificity for fatal disease; at a cut-off level of 6.6 ng mL?1, the sensitivity and specificity for severe sepsis were 67% and 72%, respectively. In multivariate models, high suPAR remained an independent predictor of case fatality and severe sepsis after adjusting for potential confounders. Conclusions A high suPAR level predicts case fatality and severe sepsis in patients with suspected infection.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nemoto, Kiyotaka
AU  - Shimokawa, Tetsuya
AU  - Fukunaga, Masaki
AU  - Yamashita, Fumio
AU  - Tamura, Masashi
AU  - Yamamori, Hidenaga
AU  - Yasuda, Yuka
AU  - Azechi, Hirotsugu
AU  - Kudo, Noriko
AU  - Watanabe, Yoshiyuki
AU  - Kido, Mikio
AU  - Takahashi, Tsutomu
AU  - Koike, Shinsuke
AU  - Okada, Naohiro
AU  - Hirano, Yoji
AU  - Onitsuka, Toshiaki
AU  - Yamasue, Hidenori
AU  - Suzuki, Michio
AU  - Kasai, Kiyoto
AU  - Hashimoto, Ryota
AU  - Arai, Tetsuaki
TI  - Differentiation of schizophrenia using structural MRI with consideration of scanner differences: A real-world multisite study
JO  - Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences
JA  - Psychiatry Clin. Neurosci.
VL  - 74
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/pcn.12934
DO  - doi:10.1111/pcn.12934
SP  - 56
EP  - 63
KW  - classification
KW  - multisite study
KW  - schizophrenia
KW  - structural MRI
KW  - voxel-based morphometry
PY  - 2020
AB  - Aim Neuroimaging studies have revealed that patients with schizophrenia exhibit reduced gray matter volume in various regions. With these findings, various studies have indicated that structural MRI can be useful for the diagnosis of schizophrenia. However, multisite studies are limited. Here, we evaluated a simple model that could be used to differentiate schizophrenia from control subjects considering MRI scanner differences employing voxel-based morphometry. Methods Subjects were 541 patients with schizophrenia and 1252 healthy volunteers. Among them, 95 patients and 95 controls (Dataset A) were used for the generation of regions of interest (ROI), and the rest (Dataset B) were used to evaluate our method. The two datasets were comprised of different subjects. Three-dimensional T1-weighted MRI scans were taken for all subjects and gray-matter images were extracted. To differentiate schizophrenia, we generated ROI for schizophrenia from Dataset A. Then, we determined volume within the ROI for each subject from Dataset B. Using the extracted volume data, we calculated a differentiation feature considering age, sex, and intracranial volume for each MRI scanner. Receiver?operator curve analyses were performed to evaluate the differentiation feature. Results The area under the curve ranged from 0.74 to 0.84, with accuracy from 69% to 76%. Receiver?operator curve analysis with all samples revealed an area under the curve of 0.76 and an accuracy of 73%. Conclusion We moderately successfully differentiated schizophrenia from control using structural MRI from differing scanners from multiple sites. This could be useful for applying neuroimaging techniques to clinical settings for the accurate diagnosis of schizophrenia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - ASBMR 2010 Annual Meeting FR0005–FR0485
JO  - Journal of Bone and Mineral Research
JA  - J Bone Miner Res
VL  - 25
IS  - S1
SN  - 9781405161435
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbmr.5650251302
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbmr.5650251302
SP  - S82
EP  - S135
PY  - 2010
ER  - 
