
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Grap, Mary Jo
AU  - Schubert, Christine M.
AU  - Munro, Cindy L.
AU  - Wetzel, Paul A.
AU  - Burk, Ruth S.
AU  - Lucas, Valentina
AU  - Pepperl, Anathea
TI  - OR Time and Sacral Pressure Injuries in Critically Ill Surgical Patients
JO  - AORN Journal
JA  - AORN J
VL  - 109
IS  - 2
SN  - 0001-2092
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/aorn.12583
DO  - doi:10.1002/aorn.12583
SP  - 229
EP  - 239
KW  - pressure injury
KW  - OR time
KW  - critically ill surgical patients
KW  - high frequency ultrasound
KW  - Braden Scale
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Critically ill patients are at risk for developing pressure injuries during operative and other invasive procedures. The purpose of this secondary analysis was to explore the relationship of OR time to sacral pressure injuries in critically ill patients using high frequency ultrasound as a method of assessment. The 41 participants examined in this study had both time in the OR and up to eight days of pressure injury data. The multivariable model containing OR bed time, body mass index, and Braden Scale score produced the best prediction of pressure injury (area under the curve = 0.859). A higher body mass index (P = .09), shorter OR bed time (P = .01), and lower Braden Scale score (P = .05) were associated with a greater chance of pressure injury. These results suggest that use of high frequency ultrasound may identify tissue changes before observable skin changes, leading to earlier pressure injury prevention strategies.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Lee, Min Hee
AU  - Cha, Jang Gyu
AU  - Hong, Hyun Sook
AU  - Lee, Jong Se
AU  - Park, Seong Jin
AU  - Paik, Sang Hyun
AU  - Lee, Hae Kyung
TI  - Comparison of High-Resolution Ultrasonography and Computed Tomography in the Diagnosis of Nasal Fractures
JO  - Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine
VL  - 28
IS  - 6
SN  - 0278-4297
UR  - https://doi.org/10.7863/jum.2009.28.6.717
DO  - doi:10.7863/jum.2009.28.6.717
SP  - 717
EP  - 723
PY  - 2009
AB  - Objective. The purpose of this study was to compare the value of high-resolution ultrasonography (HRUS) and computed tomography (CT) in the diagnosis of nasal fractures. Methods. Facial CT and HRUS examinations performed on 140 consecutive patients (103 male and 37 female; age range, 2?74 years; mean, 26 years) with nasal trauma between October 2004 and April 2007 were retrospectively evaluated. Sonograms were obtained with a hockey stick probe (15?7 MHz linear array transducer). All patients also underwent facial CT and conventional radiography. The nasal fracture detection rates for HRUS, CT, and conventional radiography were compared with the clinical and surgical diagnosis. Nasal fractures were classified into high- and low-grade groups according to severity. They were also compared with the CT findings of all 280 lateral nasal bones and with HRUS findings as the reference standard. Results. The accuracy rates for HRUS, CT, and conventional radiography in detecting nasal fractures were 100%, 92.1%, and 78.6%, respectively. Compared with HRUS, CT revealed only 196 of 233 lateral nasal bone fractures; its accuracy was 80%. In high-grade fractures, the accuracy of CT was 87%, but it decreased to 68% in low-grade fractures. Conclusions. Compared with HRUS, CT had lower accuracy, especially in low-grade nasal fractures. Thus, HRUS is a reliable diagnostic tool for the evaluation of nasal fractures.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dietz, HP
AU  - Steensma, AB
TI  - The prevalence of major abnormalities of the levator ani in urogynaecological patients
JO  - BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology
VL  - 113
IS  - 2
SN  - 1470-0328
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-0528.2006.00819.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1471-0528.2006.00819.x
SP  - 225
EP  - 230
PY  - 2006
AB  - Objectives? While morphological abnormalities of the pubovisceral muscle have been described on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), their relevance remains unclear. This study was designed to define prevalence and clinical significance of such abnormalities in urogynaecological patients. Design? Prospective observational study. Setting? Tertiary urogynaecological clinic. Population? Three hundred and thirty-eight consecutive women referred for urodynamic assessment. Methods? Participants underwent a clinical assessment, multichannel urodynamics and imaging with 3D translabial ultrasound. Blinded offline analysis was performed with the software 4D View (GE Kretztechnik, Zipf, Austria). Main outcome measures? Major morphological abnormalities of the pubovisceral muscle. Results? Defects of the pubovisceral muscle were found in 15.4% of parous women. They were exclusively anteromedial (uni- or bilateral), only occurred among women who had delivered vaginally and were associated with anterior and central compartment prolapse (all P < 0.001). There was no association with symptoms of bladder dysfunction or urodynamic findings. Conclusions? Major morphological abnormalities of the pubovisceral muscle are common in parous urogynaecological patients. They are associated with prolapse of the anterior and central compartment, but not with symptoms of bladder dysfunction or urodynamic findings.
ER  - 

AU  - Kulvatunyou, Narong
C7  - pp. 357-367
TI  - Liver and Spleen
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118274231.ch37
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781118274231.ch37
SP  - 357-367
KW  - liver and spleen
KW  - blunt liver trauma, grade V injury requiring operation, a falsity
KW  - liver abscess, pyogenic and amoebic abscess
KW  - hydatid disease, and parasitic Echinococcus
KW  - patients, high-grade liver injuries, and postinjury biloma
KW  - grade V liver injury in vehicle collision, and angiography
KW  - liver anatomy, into anteromedial and posterolateral
KW  - autoimmune hemolytic anemia, splenic hilum location
KW  - vague, left upper quadrant pain with surgical splenectomy
KW  - abnormal hemodynamics, contraindicated in splenic trauma
PY  - 2006
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Clinical Epilepsy: Adult
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_37.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_37.x
SP  - 335
EP  - 360
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Ahmed T. Abdelmoity, and 1 Amit Verma ( 1 Peter Kellaway Section of Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX ) Rationale: Benzodiazepines are rarely used as long term therapy for patients with epilepsy. However, once traditional antiepileptic drugs have failed an adjunct trial may be justified to help reduce seizure frequency. 1 ?Patient's Initials ?Seizure Type Seizure frequency ?before Seizure Frequency ?after ?Date started Clorazepate ?dose S.A. Generalized Epilepsy 2 per week one every 2?3 months 10/12/2004 11.25 mg in am, 22.5 in pm K.C. Generalized Epilepsy 1?2 per week None 3/16/2005 11.25 at night S.M. Localization Related-Right Temporal 2?3 per week None 3/25/2005 11.25 at night M.N Localization Related-Midline Central/Right Temporal Daily None 4/15/2005 5.625 at night B.B. Localization Related - Right Frontal 5?6 per week 1?2 per week 2/09/2005 11.25 at night Patient Demographics and Seizure Frequencies Prior to and After Starting Tranxene SD. Methods: We performed a retrospective chart review of patients from the Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Program Outpatient Clinic. Patients who had been started on Tranxene SD (a sustained release preparation of Clorazepate) were enrolled into the study. Five patients with refractory epilepsy, met criteria for enrollment. Of these patients, two patients had a diagnosis of primary generalized epilepsy, and three had a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy. Seizure frequencies were recorded prior to and after the initiation of Tranxene SD. Baseline seizure frequencies ranged from daily seizures to two seizures a week. Duration of follow-up ranged from 20 days to seven months. The total daily dose ranged from 5.625 mg up to 33.75 mg (either in once or twice a day dosing). Results: Tranxene SD was effective in 100% of patients, with 3 of 5 patients becoming seizure free. Please see table for detailed results in each patient. Irritability and increased daytime sleepiness were the most common side effects to Clorazepate. These side effects were tolerated well by the patients. Subjective sleepiness was initially reported by patients, which then returned to baseline. Conclusions: In our small series of patients with refractory generalized and localization related epilepsy, a significant reduction in seizure frequency was seen in all patients started on Tranxene SD. The small sample size may be resonsible for the realtively dramatic results seen in our patients. Adverse reactions including increased sleepiness were manageable. The duration of follow-up was relatively short to assess whether tachyphylaxis is a problem with continued treatment. It is possible that treatment with Tranxene SD (or other benzodiazepines) may be useful in short term durations to help decrease seizure frequencies. (Supported by Peter Kellaway Foundation for Research.) 1,2 Ricardo M. Arida, 1 Tania M.G. Henriques, 1,2 Fulvio A. Scorza, 2 Carla A. Scorza, 2,4 Roberta M. Cysneiros, 1 Fernando Freua, 1 Sandro Mandaoufas, 1 Luciano Costantini, 1 Ricardo Staffa, 2 Viviane Brito, 3 Cristine Baldauf, 3 Meire Argentoni-Baudochi, 3 Cassio R. Forster, 3 Carla Baise-Zung, 3 Valeria A. Mello, 3 Claudia T.S. Ruggi, 3 Arthur Cukiert, and 1,2 Marly De Albuquerque ( 1 Engenharia Biomedica, Universidade de Mogi das Cruzes, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; 2 Neurology, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; 3 Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 4 Departamento de Farmacologia, Universidade Sao Camilo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: To address the employment status of people with refractory epilepsy submitted to CR. Methods: Forty-six non-consecutive patients with refractory epilepsy submitted to CR were studied. Age ranged from 17 to 58 years (M = 37.6±8.7). Twenty-seven patients were males. All patients have been followed up at the Hospital Brigadeiro Epilepsy Surgery Program in S?o Paulo. The follow-up time range from 2 months to 11 years. Only one patient was unable to read and write. Twenty-four patients have been rendered seizure-free after surgery, 20 patients had partial complex seizures and 2 patients had partial with secondary generalization. Results: Twenty-six patients (56.5%) were professionally impaired by epilepsy. Twenty-seven of them (58.7%) were afraid that seizures could interfere in their professional life; twenty-six patients (56.5%) believed that epilepsy restricted their professional choices and thirty-two of them (69.5%) believed that epilepsy had already caused problems in their professional life. Six of them who were employed before surgery lost their jobs. Three patients that were not working before surgery are employed nowadays. Conclusions: Data concerning epilepsy and employment are scarce in the Brazilian population, especially after CR. Despite the fact that almost all patients could read and write, most of them had no professional skills. The high unemployment and sub-employment rate found in our patients, even in those who were cured by surgery, highlights the need for the development of rehabilitation programs directed to this selected population, as a way of improving quality of life and self-esteem. (Supported by FAEP, FAPESP, CNPq and CAPES.) 1 Ferhan Soyuer, 1 Füsun Erdogan, 1 Vesile Senol, and 1 Fehim Arman ( 1 Halil Bayraktar Health Vocational Collage, Erciyes University, Kayseri, Talas, Turkey; Neurology Departmant of Medical Faculty, Erciyes University, Kayseri, Talas, Turkey; Halil Bayraktar Health Vocational Collage, Erciyes University, Kayseri, Talas, Turkey; and Neurology Departmant of Medical Faculty, Erciyes University, Kayseri, Talas, Turkey ) Rationale: Fatigue is a common complaint in clinical practice. Although fatigue is a frequent and disabling symptom in epileptic patients, there have been only a few investigations on the subject. We examined the frequency of fatigue and depression in semptomatic and idiopatic epilepsy patients and we aimed to assess the relationship between fatigue and cognitive dysfunction in idiopatic and semptomatic epilepsy patients by using P300. Methods: We measured fatigue and depression with the Fatigue Severity Scale(FSS) and Beck Depression Scale(BDS), respectivelly in 19 patients with idiopatic epilepsy, 54 patients with semptomatic epilepsy and 31 control subjects. The oddball paradigm was used in the measurement of P300 in all groups. Results: FSS and BDS scores were significantly high and latancies of P300 were significantly long in idiopatic and semptomatic epilepsy patients. There was a poor corelation between depression and fatigue in epileptic patients. Although latencies of P300 was significantly long in idiopatic and semptomatic epilepsy patients with fatigue, there was no correlation latencies of P300 and depression. Conclusions: These findings suggest that there is an important relationship between fatigue and cognitive dysfunctions in idiopatic and semptomatic epilepsy patients. 1 Sinan A. Barazi, 1 Richard P. Selway, 1 Gautam Tawari, and 1 Charles E. Polkey ( 1 Neurosurgery, Kings College Hospital, London, United Kingdom ) Rationale: VNS is being used increasingly as treatment for intractable epilepsy. There is to date no long term study investigating the satisfaction of patients with this emerging therapy, and few data on outcome at more than five years Methods: We performed a retrospective study of 62 patients with intractable epilepsy, who were treated at King's College Hospital between 1995 and 2000, by RPS and CEP. The patients' mean age at time of implantation of VNS was 28.7 years (range 6 to 59 years); the average duration of epilepsy at implantation was 20.4 years (4 to 56); the mean age at seizure onset was 8.8 years (0 to 50); mean follow-up was 76 months (51 to 114). 3 patients died of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. We questioned patients on overall benefit of their VNS treatment, and differences in memory, achievements, mood, verbal skills, alertness, cluster seizures and post-ictal confusion. Results: The median pre- and post-implantation monthly seizure frequency in the 35 patients who continue to use the device are 24 (3 to 1800) and 4.5 (0 to 1000) respectively (mean improvement 59.1%, median follow-up 71 months). Retention rate is 59%. Corresponding median monthly seizure frequency in all patients was 22 (1 to 1800), and 9.5 (0 to 1000). 26 patients (44.1%) had no improvement, 5 (8.5%) had less than 50% improvement, 26 (44.1%) had greater than 50% improvement in seizure frequency (including 4 seizure-free), and 2 patients (3%) were worse. 24 patients who no longer use the device have undergone explantation (median 71 months follow-up; one infection, 23 non-efficacy). 27 patients (45.8%) were dissatisfied with VNS, 26 (44.1%) were satisfied, and 6 (10.1%) were undecided. Of 28 patients who had no improvement or a deterioration in their seizure frequency, 1 was satisfied with the VNS experience, 3 were undecided, and 24 were dissatisfied. Of the 31 patients who experienced an overall improvement in seizure frequency, 3 were dissatisfied, 3 were undecided, and 25 were satisfied. Mean quality of life measures showed an improvement in all domains. Conclusions: VNS shows a long term retention rate and efficacy which is highly favourable when compared to medical treatments for intractable epilepsy. 44.1% of our patient group was satisfied with VNS, and 45.8% of patients was dissatisfied. 1 Iblissen Ben Hamouda, 1 Claude Adam, 1 Michel Baulac, and 1 Vincent Navarro ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France ) Rationale: Pseudo-epileptic seizures (PES) with prolonged duration and resistance to short-acting antiepileptic drug may sometimes be taken for a status epilepticus. Ours goal were to examine (i) the frequency of pseudo-epilepticus status admitted on intensive care units (ICU) among patients with pseudo-epileptic seizures, (ii) the clinical and electrophysiological presentations of these patients and (iii) their comorbidity. Methods: We researched among the population of patients with PES, followed in our Epilepsy Unit on a period of 28 months, those who were admitted in an intensive care unit. We examined clinical and EEG presentation of their manifestations, and medical history. Results: (i) We identified 13 patients for which the diagnosis of pseudo-epilepticus status was secondarly done, among 64 patients with PES. Patients were aged from 16 to 58 years, 5 males and 8 females. Diagnosis of PES was done in intensive care unit in 1/13 cases. (ii) Motor activities were present during PES (n = 12). In intensive care unit, EEG was not performed (n = 6), showed artefacts during the motor activities (n = 2) (that were considered as epileptic for 1 patient), slow waves (n = 1), fast activities due to medication (n = 1) and was normal (n = 3). Eight patients received high doses of AED when admitted on intensive care unit, and three where under respiratory assistance. (iii) Eleven had chronic psychiatric manifestations and 9 had psychogenic precipitating factors. Three patients have a history of epilepsy. Four patients had previous hospitalisations for pseudo-epilepticus status. Conclusions: Pseudo-epileptic statuses admitted in intensive care units are frequent. Clinical presentation and EEG may be misleading. ICU physicians must be aware of this condition and avoid aggressive treatment. 1 Meriem K. Bensalem Owen, and 1 Toufic A. Fakhoury ( 1 Department of Neurology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY ) Rationale: The objective of this study is to emphasize the importance of repeating video-EEG monitoring in patients with epilepsy when they have a change in seizure semiology and to pay special attention to concomitant ECG recordings. Methods: We describe two patients who developed a change in their semiology after initial video-EEG monitoring. The first patient is a 25 year old man with stereotypic events since childhood characterized by palpitations at times associated with a sensation of fear. His first EEG-CCTV study was unrevealing. Subsequent interviews with witnesses to his events revealed that brief periods of confusion and pressured out of context speech are at times associated with these events. The second patient is a 60 year old woman who was evaluated for a longstanding history of refractory epilepsy. EEG-CCTV monitoring showed partial seizures originating from the left temporal lobe. A few months later there was a change in the semiology of her seizures, which became more severe and associated with loss of consciousness leading to falls. Both patients had repeat EEG-CCTV studies. Results: During the first patient's repeat EEG-CTV study, stereotypical events were recorded and consisted of simple partial seizures with or without evolution to complex partial seizures. On one occasion, there was secondary generalization. The study localized the epileptogenic focus to the right temporal lobe. Concomitant ECG showed sinus tachycardia, with the heart rate increasing up to 200 beats per minute. In the second patient the repeat study again localized the epileptogenic focus to the left temporal lobe. However, with the more severe seizures associated with loss of consciousness, concomitant ECG showed bradycardia leading to asystole which lasted as long as 16 seconds. The patient subsequently had a demand pacemaker inserted. Conclusions: Repeating video-EEG monitoring is critical in the evaluation of patients with epilepsy who develop a change in seizure semiology. In addition, concomitant ECG recordings should be reviewed carefully in view of possible arrhythmogenic effects of seizures. 1 Dietrich Blumer, and 2 Bola Adamolekun ( 1 Psychiatry, University of Tennessee, Memphis, TN ; and 2 Neurology, University of Tennessee, Memphis, TN ) Rationale: A majority of studies has shown a concurrence rate of epilepsy in patients with nonepileptic seizures (NES) of about 10% to 18%; most frequently epileptic seizures (ES) and NES occur sequentially rather than simultaneously, often beginning with the former (1). This group of patients has found little attention. We have explored the alternating relationship of the two types of paroxysmal disorders and report a novel treatment for patients with the history of both ES and NES - reduction of the antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) to the minimum required to achieve optimal freedom from seizures - that proved remarkably effective in our first two patients, one with initial ES and one with initial NES. The same treatment has since been applied in five more patients with both well documented ES and NES. Methods: Presence of ES and NES were documented by Video-EEG (VEEG) whenever possible. AEDs were very gradually decreased as frequent NES predominated. Results: The first patient had experienced nocturnal ES for 30 years. After 2 years of freedom from seizures, diurnal spells occurred and, over 15 years, became more frequent upon increasing antiepileptic treatments; she became anergic, fearful and headaches became constant. After EEG monitoring showed NES only, her antiepileptic treatment was gradually decreased until she regained, after 2 years, full health without seizures. The second patient was initially diagnosed by VEEG as having NES; he was disabled, anxious and depressed. After 6 years he experienced a flurry of ES, followed by remarkable improvement of his mental state. Upon treatment with AED his former NES condition resumed. He finally recovered once the AED was reduced. Over the last 6 months, the effectiveness of reducing AEDs has been clearly confirmed in five consecutive patients with both types of seizures. Of the seven patients, five had initially presented for treatment with ES and two with NES. Six had a personal history of early trauma, and five had a family history of epilepsy. Conclusions: A lowering of the AED to the minimum required for control of the ES appears to be required to achieve optimal freedom from either seizure. NESs have a psychobiologic basis and have been recognized as posttraumatic startle seizures (2). Excessive suppression of the epileptic paroxysmal activity favors the expression of the posttraumatic paroxysmal activity in patients with both types of paroxysmal disorders. Of etiological significance is the finding that the patients commonly have both a personal history of trauma and a family history of epilepsy. REFERENCES 1.?Krumholz A, Ting T: Coexisting epilepsy and nonepileptic seizures. In: Kaplan PW, Fisher RS, eds: Imitators of Epilepsy, 2nd ed., New York , Demos , 2005, pp 261?276. 2.?Blumer D: On the psychobiology of nonepileptic seizures. In: Gates JR, Rowan AJ, eds: Nonepileptic Seizures. Boston , MA : Butterworth-Heineman, 2000, pp. 305?310.Treatment Etiology 1 Alexis Boro, 1 Fred Lado, and 1 Solomon Moshe ( 1 Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: Temporal lobe seizures often differentially affect sympathetic and vagal heart rate modulation. The time course of these effects has not been fully determined. Methods: The hour before through the hour after seizures in 4 patients with TL epilepsy (11 to 42 years old; 3 female, 1 male; right- sided onset seizures in 2, left-sided onset in 2) were studied. RR intervals were interpolated with a cubic spline function and highpass filtered. Wavelet coefficients were determined from the continuous wavelet transform and converted to amplitudes with the Hilbert transform. Changes in sympathetic and vagal HR modulation were inferred from changes in high frequency (HF, 0.15?0.5 Hz) and low frequency (LF, 0.04?0.15 Hz) power from the following rules: a change in vagal activity is reflected by a change in HF and LF power in that direction, a change in sympathetic activity is reflected in HF activity in that direction, and changes in the LF/HF ratio resolve ambiguous patterns arising from simultaneous changes in sympathetic and vagal HR modulation. Results: Nine complex partial seizures were recorded: 4 secondarily generalized (left onset in 3, right in 1) and 5 did not (left onset in 2, right in 3). Pre-ictal HR modulations attributable to seizures were small in relation to background fluctuations. The number of seizures showing increased sympathetic and decreased vagal HR modulation increased as the seizure approached (Fig 1). 8/9 seizures demonstrated ictal tachycardia (mean pre-ictal HR + 3 SD). All were associated with a very low frequency peak (0.004?0.04 Hz), on average exceeding the pre-ictal baseline by 4.8 SD. This peak was coincident with LF and HF minima, and corresponds to sustained sympathetically mediated acceleration of the HR. In the post-ictal period, in 8/9 seizures vagal HR modulation was at least transiently lower in the post-ictal state than in any of the points in a reference state composed of a random sampling of 20% of the points on the HF and LF curves in the pre-ictal period. Secondarily generalized seizures were associated with longer periods of this degree of vagal depression than complex partial seizures (mean 26 vs. 11 min): limited data suggested that LF HRV and respiratory frequency were uncoupled in this period. Increased post-ictal sympathetic HR modulation was often evident, but was less extreme and of a shorter duration. Conclusions: These preliminary data suggest that increased sympathetic and decreased vagal HR modulation often precede the electroclinical onset and ictus of TL seizures. The post-ictal period is characterized by decreased vagal HR modulation that persists for considerably longer after secondarily generalized seizures. (Supported by Rett Syndrome Research Foundation.) 1 [Changes in sympathetic and vagal HR modulation over 15-second epochs prior to seizure onset. A plus sign (+) denotes increased HR modulation with resoect to previous epoch; ?, decreased HR modulation with respect to previous epoch; ? SNS and ? PSNS, interval change in sympathetic and vagal HR modulation, respectively.] 1 Andrea O. Rossetti, 2 Giancarlo Logroscino, and 1 Edward B. Bromfield ( 1 Neurology, Brigham  and 2 Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Despite the fact that refractory status epilepticus (RSE) represents an important cause of neurological morbidity and mortality, there have been few studies of its treatment, particularly comparisons among drugs used for coma-induction. Most studies are case series in which a specific antiepileptic drug (AED) was prescribed, and do not accurately reflect the variety of approaches used in clinical practice. Moreover, the impact on outcome of EEG suppression remains unclear. Methods: Among 127 episodes (107 patients) of status epilepticus (SE) collected from a retrospective database of two tertiary-referral hospitals in Boston, we identified cases that were refractory to first-line (benzodiazepines) and second-line (phenytoin valproate, phenobarbital, or other) AED, and needed intubation and induced coma for clinical management. Coma induction was assessed with regard to the AED used and the extent of EEG suppression achieved. Short-term mortality was analyzed in relationship to demographic and clinical variables, and the treatment strategy used. Statistical analysis was performed with Fisher exact tests for categorical variables and t-tests for continuous variables. Results: We identified 49 episodes of RSE occurring in 47 patients. RSE tended to occur more frequently in incident SE than in recurrent SE episodes (p = 0.06). Mortality was 23% for RSE and 8% for non-RSE patients (p = 0.05); patients with RSE episodes were more likely to lack a history of epilepsy (p = 0.01) or of SE (p = 0.05) prior to the study period, and had a higher prevalence of nonconvulsive SE with coma (p = 0.07). One coma-inducing AED was prescribed in 45%, whereas two ore more were used in 55% of episodes; the most used agents were barbiturates (31 episodes), propofol (27) and midazolam (19); in 20/33 (61%) monitored episodes, the medication was titrated to EEG burst-suppression. Demographics, clinical variables and outcome did not differ significantly between the different coma-inducing strategies, or between episodes with and without EEG burst-suppression. Barbiturates showed a tendency to be used preferentially in episodes related to ominous etiologies. Conclusions: RSE has a higher prevalence in incident than in recurrent SE, and shows higher mortality than non-RSE. In our series, RSE episodes were managed with a combination of coma-inducing AED markedly more often than in series published previously. In this setting, which may more accurately reflect usual clinical practice, mortality appears to be independent of the specific AED used for coma induction and the extent of EEG suppression, suggesting, in agreement with previous studies, that the underlying etiology is the main determinant of outcome. (Dr. Rossetti is supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation and the SICPA Foundation, Prilly, Switzerland.) 1 Yotin Chinvarun ( 1 Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Pramongkutklao Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand ) Rationale: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of topiramate used as monotherapy in adult patients with recently diagnosed partial-onset seizures. Methods: A 6-month, open-label, uncontrolled trial was undertaken in 28 patients. Eligible patients were aged ≥ 16 years and weight ≥ 30 kg with the maximum interval since epilepsy diagnosis was 3 years and had at least one partial-onset seizure during a 3-months retrospective baseline phase. The main outcome measures proportion of patients who showed 50% or greater reduction in frequency of seizures and withdraw from the study for any reason. Topiramate was initiated at 50 mg/day and titrated to a recommended dose of 200?400 mg/day Results: Topiramate treated patients demonstrated significant improvement in seizure severity based on 77.3% were seizure-free. The percentage of patients with a ≥50% seizure rate reduction from baseline was 13.6%, and 9.1% were not improved. There were no discontinuations from the study due to adverse events. The adverse events were mild intensity included paresthesia, dizziness, weight loss, anorexia, numbness, slow mentation, and hypoesthesia. Conclusions: The study suggests that topiramate in doses 50?200 mg/day was well tolerated and effective in the monotherapy treatment of patients with partial epilepsy. (Supported by Janssen-Cilag, Tahiland.) 1,2 Fulvio A. Scorza, 1,2 Ricardo M. Arida, 1,2 Marly De Albuquerque, 2 Carla A. Scorza, 2,4 Roberta M. Cysneiros, 3 Cristine Baldauf, 3 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 3 Cassio R. Forster, 3 Carla Baise-Zung, 3 Valeria A. Mello, 3 Claudia T.S. Ruggi, and 3 Arthur Cukiert ( 1 Engenharia Biomedica, Universidade de Mogi das Cruzes, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; 2 Neurology, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; 3 Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 4 Departamento de Farmacologia, Universidade Sao Camilo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is an important cause of death among epilepsy surgery patients. The aim of this study was to determine the mortality rate due to SUDEP in patients who had epilepsy surgery at the Hospital Brigadeiro Epilepsy Unit (S?o Paulo, Brazil). Methods: Nine hundred and fifty patients who underwent epilepsy surgery between January 1996 and January 2005 were included in the study. All subjects had been followed up until January 2005. Results: During the study period, two SUDEP episodes occurred. Both patients died during the early stage after surgical procedures. No SUDEP occurred among the remaining 948 patients who had epilepsy surgery even after long term follow-up. Patient I: This 32 years-old man had simple and complex partial seizures since the age of 8 (seizure's frequency, 1?2/week). MRI disclosed right mesial temporal sclerosis. He was submitted to an uneventful right cortico-amygdalo-hippocampectomy. By Day 9 after surgery, he was packing together with his mother to leave the Hospital and presented SUDEP. Necropsy showed no pathological substrate for SUDEP. Patient II: This 18 years old boy had postural frontal lobe seizures since the age of 2. MRI was normal. Ictal and interictal video-EEG showed secondary bilateral synchrony. He was submitted to bifronto-mesial subdural electrodes implantation. On the second post-operative day, he was having breakfast, waiting to be transferred to the Video-EEG Unit and presented SUDEP. Necropsy showed no pathological substrate for SUDEP. Conclusions: The unexplained cause of SUDEP in patients with refractory epilepsy still remains a challenge. Our results suggest that SUDEP's incidence might be lower in our populatiom than that noted in other studies, especially in those reporting on chronically refractory epileptic patients. (Supported by FAEP, FAPESP, CNPq and CAPES.) 1 Alberto Diaz, 1 Jose Hernandez, and 1 Bernardino Torres ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Hospital Edgardo Rebagliati Martins, Jesus Maria, Lima, Peru ) Rationale: Different etiologies in adult epileptic patients have been demonstrated between developing and undeveloping countries but this difference is not so clear among elderly patients. The purpose of the study is to show our experience in relation to etiologies and clinical characteristics in elderly epilepsy. Methods: We made a prospective clinical study of epileptic patients older than 60 years, all cases were inpatients in the Epilepsy Unit of the biggest Peruvian hospital between January 2002 to December 2004. Results: Among 248 epileptic patients, 58 cases were older than 60 years and none of them had antecedents of seizures. It was possible to find a focal etiology in all patients. Stroke was the most frequent cause in 31 patients, followed by tumour in 13 causes. Most patients had generalized seizures and neurological focal findings. We don't report status epilepticus cases. Conclusions: As in developing countries, we found that stroke is the most frequent etiology in Peruvian epileptic elderly patients, and generalized seizures are the most common seizure type. 1 Antonio Donaire, 1 Mar Carreño, 1 Rolando Agudo, 1 Nuria Bargalló, and 1 Carmen Tur ( 1 Neurology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain ) Rationale: Seizure semiology plays an important role in the epilepsy classification proccess. Long-term video EEG evaluation (LTVE) is considered the ?gold-standard? to study seizure semiology. However, LTVE is not always available and seizure semiology has to be inferred from the clinical history. The aim of this study was to compare the seizure semiology reported by the patient in an outpatient tertiary epilepsy clinic with the semiology observed during LTVE to determine the degree of reliability of the symptoms and signs referred by the patients. Methods: We analyzed the seizure semiology reported in the outpatient clinic to an experienced epileptologist by all patients with focal epilepsy who underwent presurgical evaluation between 1990?2004 and compared it with the seizure semiology observed during LTVE. Concordance rate was defined as percentage of patients who described a certain seizure semiology which was later confirmed during LTVE. Seizures were classified according to the semiological seizure classification. Recorded seizures were reviewed by two independent observers. Results: We reviewed the medical reports as well as the LTVE evaluation of 330 patients with focal epilepsy who underwent presurgical evaluation (166 men; mean age 36). Epilepsy was classified as frontal in 49 patients (15%), temporal in 205(62%), parieto-occipital in 23(7%) and just focal epilepsy in 53(16%). More patients reported auras before (224) than during LTVE (126). On the contrary, lateralizing signs were seen during LTVE (120) more frequently than reported in the outpatient clinic (77). When lateralizing signs were reported in the outpatient clinic and then observed during LTVE, their concordance rate was 75%(28/36). In frontal lobe epilepsy the seizure semiology agreement before and after LTVE was 41%. The best concordance (100%) was seen in bilateral asymmetric seizures, followed by dialeptic seizures (80%). In TLE the concordance in seizure semiology was 69%, being higher in automotor seizures (79%) and lowest in dialeptic seizures (37%), because up to 60% of automotor seizures were described as dialeptic seizures in the outpatient clinic. In parieto-occipital lobe epilepsy the concordance was 45%, being higher in simple motor seizures (tonic/clonic) (80%) followed by automotor seizures (40%). Considering only seizure types, the highest degree of concordance was seen in automotor seizures (80%), followed by dialeptic seizures (44.6%) focal motor (tonic and clonic) seizures (39%). Conclusions: Concordance in seizure semiology reported by the patients and later observed during LTVE seems to be high in TLE, followed by parieto-occipital and frontal lobe epilepsy. The seizure types that show a higher degree of concordance are automotor, focal motor, and dialeptic seizures. Epileptic auras are more frequently reported before than actually during LTVE; lateralizing signs are seen more often during LTVE, although when patients report them, they usually do it accurately. 1 John O. Elliott, and 1 Mercedes P. Jacobson ( 1 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Elevated serum homocysteine (s-Hcy) is recognized as an independent risk factor in premature coronary disease and cognitive impairment. A recent study by van Meurs, et. al. found the risk of fracture was double in those with elevated s-Hcy. Epidemiological studies have found the incidence of fracture in epilepsy to be twice that of the normal population. Anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) have been shown to increase s-Hcy by lowering blood folate levels. The literature suggests a homocysteine-associated disturbance in collagen cross-linking is involved in bone loss. The goal of this study was to see if there is a relationship between metabolic bone loss in epilepsy and homocysteine. Methods: Standard practice in our clinic is to address bone health and nutrition with all patients. We screened 405 patient charts seen in our clinic over the past 2 years. Data on 120 patients included: age, gender, seizure type, years on AEDs, s-Hcy, serum folic acid (s-FA), supplementation patterns and DEXA screening results was compiled. Results: This was an adult epilepsy population: mean age: 44 years (SD = 14.1, range 17 to 81), there were 51 males and 69 females. Fifty were African American, 46 Caucasian, 20 Latino and 3 Asian/Other, average length of AED exposure: 26 years (SD = 14.8, range 2 to 64). DEXA results were found for 85 patients and homocysteine levels for 103 patients. Sixty-seven patients had complete records. Sixty-four subjects had abnormal DEXA results (osteopenia n = 35, osteoporosis n = 29). Normal DEXA results were found in 21 patients. There was a history of fracture in 22 subjects (18%). Mean homocysteine levels in micromol/L (SD) were 11.3 (7.6) for African Americans, 12.5 (8.3) Latinos, 9.4 (4.1) Caucasians and 6.8 (0.8) Asian/Other. Bivariate correlation analysis was performed. Bone loss status was not significantly correlated with s-Hcy (n = 67; Pearson's r = .11, p = .38). Surprisingly, length of years on AEDs was not correlated with an increased risk for bone loss (n = 85; Pearson's r = -.001, p = .99). As expected, body weight was inversely correlated with bone loss (n = 85; Pearson's r = -0.46, p = .000) and s-Hcy was inversely correlated with s-FA (n = 89; Pearson's r = -0.41, p = .000). Only four subjects had s-FA below the normal range of 5.4 ng/ml. Conclusions: This is the first study to look at s-Hcy and bone loss in epilepsy. Our data does not support a relationship, however; the use of a retrospective design may have prevented us from detecting an effect, since only 67 patients had completed both tests and half of the patients took multivitamins. In addition, this study included some older indivduals with diagnosis of epilepsy at mid-life. Our data supports previous studies, which found elevated s-Hcy in patients taking AEDs. Based on our data, elevated s-Hcy may also be related to ethnicity and/or related dietary habits. Six AEDs have known anti-folate mechanisms in pregnancy, cardiovascular protection and bone loss. Nutritional supplementation continues to be important in preventative epilepsy care. 1 Claudia Engbring, 1 Christoph Kellinghaus, 1 Stefan Evers, 1 Frank Bösebeck, 1 Gabriel Möddel, and 1 Ingo W. Husstedt ( 1 Neurology, University of Münster, Münster, Germany ) Rationale: Infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is associated with infections of the central nervous system secondary to immunodeficiency as well as with neurological deficits due to direct effects of the neurotropic virus itself. Seizures and epilepsy are not rare among HIV-infected patients. However, systematic data about incidence and prevalence of seizures and epilepsy in HIV-positive patients are scarce. We intended to investigate the incidence and prevalence of acute seizures and epilepsy in neurological patients infected with HIV. Methods: The database of the Department of Neurology, University Hospitals Münster, was searched for patients with HIV-infection admitted to in-patient or out-patient treatment between 1992 and 2004. Their charts were reviewed regarding all available sociodemographic, clinical, neurophysiological, imaging and laboratory data. If possible, information about seizure therapy and outcome was gathered. Stage of infection according to the CDC-classification. Results: Of 831 HIV-infected patients admitted to our department, 51 (6,2%) had seizures and/or epilepsy. Eight of the 51 patients (16%) were diagnosed with epilepsy before the onset of the HIV-infection. Eleven patients (22%) only had single or few provoked seizures in the setting of acute cerebral disorders (8 patients), drug withdrawal or sleep withdrawal (2 patients), or of unknown cause (1 patient). Thirty-two patients (63%) developed epilepsy in the course of their HIV-infection. Of the 51 patients, 38 (75%) were already diagnosed with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrom (AIDS) at their first documented contact. Toxoplasmosis (7 patients), progressive multifocal leukodystrophy (7 patients) and other acute or subacute cerebral infections (5 patients) were the most frequent causes of seizures. EEG data of 38 patients were available. EEG showed generalized and diffuse slowing in 14 patients, regional slowing in 12 patients and epileptiform discharges in 1 patient. Only 9 of the patients had normal EEG. The majority of the patients (46 patients = 90%) were on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Twenty-seven patients (53%) were on anticonvulsant therapy (gabapentin14 patients, carbamazepine 9 patients, valproat 2 patients, phenytoin 1 patient, lamotrigine 1 patient). Conclusions: Seizures are a relevant neurological symptom during the course of HIV-infection. Although in some patients seizures only occur in the setting of acute disease progress, the majority of patients with newly onset seizures eventually develop epilepsy and require anticonvulsant therapy. 1 David M. Ficker, 1,2 Bruce K. Schefft, 1 Jerzy P. Szaflarski, 1 Michael D. Privitera, 1 Jennifer Cavitt, and 1 Angela Morriss ( 1 Neurology, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH ; and 2 Psychology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH ) Rationale: To compare the frequency of depression in refractory temporal, extratemporal and primary generalized epilepsies confirmed by video/EEG monitoring. There have been conflicting reports that seizure localization is associated with depression. Methods: Records from the epilepsy monitoring unit admissions from January 2003 through March 2005 were reviewed for seizure localization (temporal vs. extratemporal vs. primary generalized). Patients who had seizures recorded on video/EEG and a Beck Depression Inventory ? Second Edition (BDI-II) measured were included for analysis. Patients with poorly localized seizures were excluded. Seizure localization was determined by ictal EEG onset and neuroimaging. Patient data was reviewed at our epilepsy surgery conference to finalize seizure localization. Results: 119 patients met inclusion criteria (63 temporal, 35 extratemporal and 21 primary generalized). 79 of the 98 patients with partial onset seizures had unilateral seizure onset (37 right, 42 left). ANOVA showed no differences between the three groups. Mean BDI-II scores Temporal Extratemporal Primary Gen Mean BDI-II 11.89 14.03 16.86 Std dev ?1.14 ?1.56 ?2.97 Overall, 37% of patients had depression based on BDI-II scores (score greater than 15). No differences were found in the frequency of depression among the three groups (frequency of depression: temporal: 28.6%, extratemporal: 42.9%, primary generalized: 52.4%, p = NS, Chi square). However, between group analyses showed that patients with primary generalized epilepsy were more likely to be depressed than patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. When the extratemporal and temporal groups were combined into a ?partial epilepsy? group, there were no differences in mean BDI-II score and frequency of depression when compared to the primary generalized group. No significant differences were found between left and right seizure onset and mean BDI-II scores or the frequency of depression. Conclusions: Patients with refractory generalized epilepsy had a greater frequency of depression than patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. No differences in mean BDI-II score was seen between temporal, extratemporal and primary generalized epilepsy. The high frequency of depression in refractory primary generalized epilepsy may be clinically important and warrants further study. 1 Nathan B. Fountain, and 1 Miao Liu ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: Population based epilepsy studies provide accurate estimates of incidence and prevalence but provide limited data about precise seizure (SZ) type and epilepsy syndrome characteristics because a detailed SZ history and diagnostic tests cannot be systematically obtained and detailed SZ frequencies are not known. We prospectively collected data on a finite epilepsy population to determine the characteristics defining each SZ type and epilepsy syndrome and correlated it with SZ frequencies, especially with regard to refractoriness. Methods: Standardized data were prospectively collected by epileptologists from patients seen in the UVA Epilepsy Clinic from April 1998 to November 2004. Data was acquired directly from patients and medical records, then refined and cleaned by standardized methods and updated at each clinic visit. Analysis was limited to patients with definite epilepsy at least 5 years old. Frequency of each SZ type was collected at each visit. Patients were categorized into 14 classes by the combination of SZ types they possessed. Epilepsy syndromes containing less than 10 patients were not included in comparisons. SZ frequency of each SZ type was plotted over time from June 2000 to November 2004. ?SZ-free? was defined as a total frequency of 0 for all types combined at the last clinic visit. Duration of SZ freedom was defined by interval since last visit at which any SZ were reported (SZ frequency > 0). Current SZ frequency was categorized as 0, 0 to <1, ≥1, and ≥30 SZ/mo. Results: A total of 1638 patients were analyzed. Overall, current SZ frequency was 0 in 51%, 0?1 in 14%, ≥1 in 35%, and ≥30 in 8%. SZ frequency was more likely to be 0 for patients with Only Generalized SZ (60%) compared to Only Partial SZ (47%) or Mixed SZ (40%) while Mixed SZ was more likely to be ≥30 SZ/mo (21%). Among the categories of SZ combinations, GTC Only was most likely to be SZ free (73%) and CPS+SPS+Secondary Generalized was least likely (33%). SZ frequency ≥30 was most common for Mixed SPS+Primary Generalized (57%) but this group only contained 7 patients. Among epilepsy syndromes, SZ freedom was most likely for Juvenile Absence (80%), Benign Rolandic (79%), and Idiopathic Localization-Related Not Further Classifiable (73%). Lennox-Gastaut (29%) was most likely to have ≥30 and Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy (16%) is also likley but mostly due to myoclonic SZs. SZ frequency ≥1 was most likely for LGS (65%), frontal lobe epilepsy (50%), and MTLE (42%). MTLE patients were generally unlikely to be SZ free (44%) and also unlikely to have essentially daily SZs (5%). Conclusions: The overall rate of SZ freedom is surprisingly high. Refractoriness varies by epilepsy syndrome and SZ type but associates best with epilepsy syndrome. Patients with mixed SZ types are more likely to be refractory and have essentially daily SZs. MTLE was among the most frequently refractory, which is important because it represents the most common identifiable epilepsy syndrome. 1 Kristen M. Fowler, 1 Donald L. Schomer, 2 Cynthia L. Harden, 2 Blagovast Nikolov, 3 Michael Sperling, 3 Joyce Liporace, 3 Gwendolyn Taylor, 4 Page B. Pennell, 4 Melanee Newman, 5 Joseph M. Massaro, and 1 Andrew G. Herzog ( 1 Harvard Neuroendocrine Unit, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA ; 2 Neurology, Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, NY ; 3 Neurology, Thomas Jefferson Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA ; 4 Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA ; and 5 Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, MA ) 1 [ Pairwise comparisons of seizures on different days of the cycle. Significant comparisons for both seizure frequency (A) and seizure occurrence (B) are indicated in the table using numbers to show the level of significance an shading to reflect the positivity (black boxes) or negativity (white boxes) of the comparison. Level of significance is indicated as follows: 1 = p < 10; 2 = p < 05; 3 = p < 01; 4 < 001; 5 = p < 0001. Axis numbers = days of cycle; day 1 = menstrual onset; day ?14 = day of evulation. ] Rationale: Seizures may vary during the menstrual cycle because hormones have neuroactive properties and hormone levels change during the course of the cycle. The purpose of this study was to determine if and how seizure frequency and occurrence varies across the menstrual cycle. Methods: The subjects were the first 100 women with clinical and EEG features of localization-related epilepsy, 13?45 years old, who participated in the baseline phase of a larger multicenter investigation of cyclic progesterone therapy for intractable seizures. Each subject participated in a 3-month baseline phase during which she recorded seizures and menses. Midluteal serum progesterone levels were measured with 5 ng/ml cutoff to indicate ovulation. The data consisted of 1) average seizure frequencies for each cycle day and 2) proportions of cycles with seizure occurrence on a given cycle day. Statistical comparisons of seizure frequency and occurrence were performed using generalized estimating equation one-way ANOVA and logistic regression followed by pairwise multiple comparisons of days based on the least square means. The results (pairwise p-values) were then plotted as tables for ease of visualization of resulting patterns. Results: Data were available for 292 cycles: 229 (78.4%) were ovulatory; 54 (18.4%) were anovulatory; no sample was collected for 9 cycles. The distribution of both seizure frequencies and occurrence on particular days was not uniform across the cycle (ANOVA p < .001). There was a 2-fold difference between highest (day 1) and lowest (day -8 and day 7) frequencies for both seizure frequency and occurrence. Pairwise daily comparisons are shown in Fig. 1. Two-way ANOVA did not show a significant interaction between ovulation status and seizure patterns. Comparison of seizure distributions in cycles with high vs low progesterone levels, however, showed significant differences for both seizure frequency (ANOVA p < .001) and occurrence (p < .05). Conclusions: The distribution of seizure frequencies and days with seizure occurrence varies significantly over the course of the menstrual cycle with the highest likelihood perimenstrually and the lowest during the midluteal and midfollicular phases. (Supported by NIH R01-NS39644.) 1 Maria D. Garcia, 1 Gabriela S. Ugarnes, 1 Monica Segalovich, 1 Juan Pociecha, and 1 Carlos H. D Giano ( 1 Epilepsy Program, Institute for Neurological Research - FLENI, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: Epilepsy currently affects 1?1.5% of elderly being the third most frequently encountered neurologic problem in this population. Additionally, the incidence of new onset epilepsy is higher among the elderly than in any other age group. As in the general population, EEG and MRI are the cornerstones of diagnostic assessment; however, the finding of nonspecific changes associated with aging that do not necessarily indicate an underlying predisposition for epilepsy makes results difficult to interpret. The purpose of the current study is to give an overview of epidemiologic data in the elderly, focusing on etiology and seizure semiology. Methods: Retrospective database and medical records analysis of adult patients with epilepsy admitted to our Epilepsy Program from January 2004 to May 2005. Results: 19 out of 292 (6.5%) patients, 11 women and 8 men, admitted to our program were older than 65 with a diagnosis of new-onset epilepsy. The mean age of seizure onset was 73 years old (range: 65?86). The seizure semiology included: generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS) in 7 (37%), with a 57% occurring only over sleep; complex partial seizures (CPS) in 3; simple partial seizures (SPS) in 2; SPS evolving to CPS in 2 and complex partial seizures with secondary generalization (CPS-GTC) in 4. Four patients with CPS were not corretly diagnosed until they had the first GTCS. EEG were performed in 16 of 19, only 5 (31%) showed epileptiform abnormalities consistent with the diagnosis. MRIs were obtained in 18 out of 19, five of them were diagnostic. The etiology of the epilepsy included: ischemic stroke in 2; lobar hemorrhage in 1; primary brain tumors in 2.; Alzheimer disease in 1; remaining unknown in 12 (63%). Conclusions: The most common seizure type seen in our series was GTCS without a clear-cut partial onset. Epilepsy was mainly cryptogenic followed by vascular or neoplastic etiology. Distinguishing epilepsy from paroxysmal nonepileptic events can be difficult as the ictal semiology may be misinterpreted as symptoms of other typical diseases in old people (syncope, transient global amnesia).Further studies in this area are still needed to establish optimal diagnostic strategies. 1 Mandeep Garewal, 1 Salvador Cruz, 1 Jayant N. Acharya, and 1 R. Edward Hogan ( 1 Department of Neurology, Saint Louis University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO ) Rationale: Epilepsy partialis continua (EPC) is rarely related to paraneoplastic syndromes. We present a case of EPC, refractory to multiple AEDs, which responded to treatment with methylprednisolone. Methods: We reviewed the findings of a 63 year old woman who presented with EPC. Results: A 63 year old woman presented with EPC of the left hemi-face and arm of 3 weeks duration. Extensive workup including CSF results, cytology, herpes PCR, encephalitis panel, Lyme antibodies (abs), HIV abs and ELISA testing, was negative. Paraneoplastic panel was positive for anti-striatal abs. AEDs (valproic acid, phenytoin, levetiracetam, carbamazepine, and chlorazepate) given in maximally-tolerated doses did not result in improvement of EPC. Propofol reduced the severity but did not abolish the EPC. Four weeks after onset of EPC, the patient was treated with methylprednisolone 250 mg IV q 6 hours. Neuroimaging was obtained 2 weeks before the onset of EPC and at weeks 3, 4, 5 after onset of EPC. The day following methylprednisolone treatment, the seizure frequency and duration had remarkably diminished. Three days later, EPC had subsided. Methyl-prednisolone was administered for a total of 5 days, followed by a course of oral prednisone. Phenytoin, chlorazepate and valproate were weaned off. The patient was discharged on carbamazepine, levetiracetam and oral prednisone. Prednisone was tapered over the following two months. One year after presentation, she had no recurrence of symptoms. Five weeks after onset of EPC, a biopsy of a lung nodule showed small cell carcinoma, which prompted treatment with chemotherapy and radiation. Neuroimaging findings: MR brain 2 weeks prior to EPC (obtained for clinical indication of encephalopathy) was normal. At 3 weeks after onset of EPC, FLAIR showed hyperintensity in the left frontal, temporal, and insular regions. At week 4 after EPC onset, an additional hyperintensity was noted in the right frontal region, which resolved on repeat MR obtained 5 weeks after EPC onset. There was no contrast enhancement at any time. The figure shows FLAIR images before and after steroid treatment of EPC. Conclusions: EPC is commonly refractory to conventional AEDs, but may respond to treatment with corticosteroids. Our case illustrates that corticosteroids can be efficacious in treating paraneoplastic-related EPC. Continued resolution of EPC after taper of corticosteroids was likely related to treatment of the underlying neoplasm. This case illustrates the importance of workup for associated neoplasm in patients with EPC. 1 Nicole C. Hank, 1 Steve S. Chung, and 1 David M. Treiman ( 1 Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: In the past decade many new medications have become available for various neurological disorders including epilepsy. Clinical Trials, an essential component of drug development, helps to establish efficacy and safety. Thus, clinical research has grown significantly in parallel to new medication development in the health field. It is critically important for investigators to identify and recruit potential candidates for clinical trials in order to efficiently complete studies and to evaluate drug efficacy and safety in a timely fashion. In order to improve and understand effective recruitment strategy, we surveyed current clinical study participants at our epilepsy center. Methods: Thirty-three Epilepsy patients who all are currently participating in one out of 5 (phase II, III or IV clinical multi-centered) epilepsy studies at BNI were asked questions pertaining to reasons for participation and continuation of study as well as primary concerns for participation when they were asked to participate in the clinical study. Patients were asked to rate their answers on a 0?10 scale with 10 being the strongest influence and 0 the least influence. Questionnaires were administered to patients during their clinic visits or via email and were analyzed. Results: Twenty-nine out of 33 patients (88%) answered investigator rapport (physician and coordinator) to be the number one reason why they chose to participate in a study (X = 9.7). Three patients answered that the most important influential rationale was financial reasons (reimbursement or no insurance), and the remaining one patient stated no other medical options were available. When patients were asked what biggest concerns they had prior to consent, nearly all patients (94%) expressed the fear for unknown potential side effects. Even though seizure improvement was reported by 40% of the participants, only 1% (3 out of 33) stated efficacy was their number one reason for continuing in a study, while 91% (30 out of 33) chose to continue participation based on investigators' care. Conclusions: This study shows that establishing a good patient/doctor rapport is the most important factor to successfully recruit patients for clinical trials. Regardless of the type of clinical trials, good medical care from investigators was the most important determinant factor in those who complete trials. 1,2 Sheryl R. Haut, 3 Aaron LeValley, 3 Charles B. Hall, and 2,3 Richard B. Lipton ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Management Center, Montefiore Med.Ctr/Albert Einstein Coll of Med, Bronx, NY ; 2 Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; and 3 Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: Stress is an often reported, but rarely studied trigger factor for seizures. Using diary data, we explored the population and within person effects of stress on the occurrence of seizures. Methods: Subjects 18 yrs or older with localization related epilepsy were recruited from the Epilepsy Management Center and the neurology clinics at Montefiore Medical Center. Eligible subjects had at least 1 seizure within the prior 12 months and the ability to self-maintain a daily diary. Diary data included dates and times of all seizures, and daily stress, measured on a 10 point ordinal scale (1 being least, 10 being highest stress). We modeled the association of stress on a given day as a predictor of seizures over the subsequent 24 hrs using mixed-effects logistic models for the entire population, and logistic regression models for individuals. Results: Sixty four subjects maintained seizure diaries with daily stress levels for >1 month and up to one year (median: 246 diary days) for a total 15,806 person days of diary data. Increases in recorded stress levels were associated with increased risk of seizures in the subsequent 24 hour epoch (p > 0.000); A three unit increase in stress was associated with a 32% increase in the relative odds of seizure (OR 1.32 (95% CI 1.22?1.40). These findings were independent of hours of sleep. Within-person significance for stress and seizure risk was demonstrated for 25% of subjects at 0.10 level, and 20% of subjects at 0.05 level. Conclusions: Elevations in daily stress measurements were significantly associated with increased risk of seizure in the subsequent 24 hours, independent of hours of sleep. This association was significant for at least 20% of individual subjects. This subgroup may be particularly vulnerable to the effects of stress. Further studies will explore the mechanisms of this stress effect, and examine potential behavioral interventions to uncouple stress from seizure risk. (Supported by K23NS02192 (P.I. Dr. Haut).) 1 Kyoung Heo, 1 Sang Don Han, 2 Sung Ryoung Lim, 1 Mi Ae Kim, and 1 Byung In Lee ( 1 Department of Neurology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Severance Hospital, Shinchon-dong 134, Seodaemoon-ku, Seoul, Korea ; and 2 Department of Neurology, National Health Insurance Corporation, Ilsan Hospital, Koyang City Ilsan gu, Kyunggi, Korea ) Rationale: Prior studies using various methods of continuous EEG monitoring for selected patients reported that many patients were not aware of their all seizures or a significant portion of their seizures. Therefore, we assessed self-perception of awareness of complex partial seizure (AOCPS) through a thorough interview. Methods: Patients with CPSs during sleep only, overt mental retardation, or the total number of CPSs ≤3 were excluded because we considered that they could not give reliable information for AOCPS. We included consecutive 134 patients at our epilepsy clinic, whose CPSs had been observed and given sufficient information for awareness of CPSs by patients and their family members, and investigated the proportion and characteristics of patients without AOCPS compared with those with AOCPS and the change of unawareness of their CPSs during the follow-up. Results: Thirty-one patients (23%) did not have AOCPS completely (n = 23) or incompletely (n = 8). Interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) were more frequently detected in patients without AOCPS (94%; complete, 96%) than those with AOCPS (55%), mainly in the temporal region. Bilateral independent IEDs were found in 48% of patients without AOCPS (complete: 52%) compared with 13% of those with AOCPS (p < 0.001). The lateralization of epileptic foci based on ictal semiology, IEDs and structural lesions on MRI was not different between patients without AOCPS and with AOCPS. Eighty-four percent of patients without AOCPS were classified as having temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) compared with 70% of those with AOCPS (p = 0.093). TLE patients without AOCPS were less likely to have structural lesions involving mesial temporal region and more likely to have normal finding on MRI compared with those with AOCPS. Six of 23 patients with complete unawareness of their seizures had experienced AOCPS even with de novo aura in three patients during the follow-up. Conclusions: Our results suggest that a significant number of epilepsy patients are not aware of their CPSs. Unawareness of CPSs may occur especially in TLE patients with bilateral independent IEDs and without structural lesions involving mesial temporal region. 1 Nikolas Hitiris, 1 Rajiv Mohanraj, and 1 Martin J. Brodie ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Division of Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, Western Infirmary, Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Clinical and biological differences between responders and non-responders to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may help to explain the basis for refractory epilepsy. Methods: A total of 890 patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy attended the epilepsy clinic of the Western Infirmary, Glasgow between July 1982 and May 2001. Follow up data were available for 780 (88%). All were initially treated with monotherapy and treatment was altered depending on response and tolerability. We compared the clinical characteristics of patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy who went into remission following the first AED dose (immediate responders) with those who remained pharmacoresistant de novo (non-responders). The non-responders never gained control of their seizures for any 12-month period from onset. Results: We identified 245 (31%) immediate responders and 276 (35%) non-responders (see table). Non-responders were more likely to have clusters of seizures [OR 9.17 (95% CI 1.17?72.18), p = 0.035], a family history of epilepsy [OR 1.85 (95% CI 1.1?3.11), p = 0.02], traumatic head injury [OR 3.12 (95% CI 1.72?5.64), p < 0.001] and psychiatric co-morbidity [OR 2.02 (95% CI 1.24?3.28), p = 0.004]. Factors that did not achieve statistical significance between the groups were birth injury, febrile seizures, previous status epilepticus, neurological deficit and learning difficulties. Conclusions: In this longitudinal study, 31% of patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy remained seizure-free following the first dose of their first AED whereas a further 35% appeared to be refractory de novo. Clinical factors that identify early refractory epilepsy could lead to improved pharmacotherapy or prompt surgery. Comparing responders with non-responders to AEDs may provide insights into the pathophysiology of refractory epilepsy. Clinical characteristics of immediate responders and non-responders Responders ?(n = 245) Non-responders ?(n = 276) Male 125 (51%) 157 (57%) Female 120 (49%) 119 (43%) Median age at diagnosis (years) 31 (range 10 to 93) 32 (range 13 to 81) Median pre-treatment seizures 3 (range 1 to >100) 6 (range 1 to >100) Median seizure duration (years) 1 (range 0.1 to 21) 1 (range 0.1 to 44) Idiopathic generalised epilepsies 81 (33%) 61 (22%) Symptomatic epilepsies 76 (31%) 97 (35%) Cryptogenic epilepsies 88 (36%) 118 (43%) 1 Shaun A. Hussain, 1,2,3 Richard B. Lipton, 1 Sheryl R. Haut, 1,2,3 Carol A. Derby, and 1,4 Shlomo Shinnar ( 1 Neurology, Montefiore Med Ctr, Albert Einstein Coll of Med, Bronx, NY ; 2 Einstein Aging Study, Albert Einstein Coll of Med, Bronx, NY ; 3 Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein Coll of Med, Bronx, NY ; and 4 Pediatrics, Montefiore Med Ctr, Albert Einstein Coll of Med, Bronx, NY ) Rationale: Compared to young adulthood, the incidence of epilepsy is thought to increase substantially after age 60, and may be further elevated among males and African-Americans. The reason for this rise is uncertain. Although elevated risk may be due in part to stroke, dementia, and other risk factors common in older adults, it has been postulated that aging itself may be associated with increased risk of epilepsy. We therefore sought to determine the incidence of epilepsy in a relatively healthy, racially-diverse, elderly cohort. Methods: 1919 community-dwelling subjects (age 70+) followed in a prospective longitudinal aging study were screened for seizures. For all subjects who screened positive and a sample of subjects who screened negative (n = 100), we determined which subjects had epilepsy with onset after age 45 by means of standardized telephone interviews and review of aging study records. For screen-positive subjects, we sought hospital medical records to verify self-reported age of onset. Age-specific and cumulative incidence of epilepsy were estimated using reconstructed cohort methods and the Kaplan-Meier procedure. We assessed sex and race as risk factors using Cox proportional hazards regression. Results: 45 subjects screened positive for seizures, and 1874 screened negative. Of the 45 screen-positive subjects, 21 had epilepsy with onset after age 45, 21 had likely seizures or epilepsy with onset before age 45, 2 experienced single provoked seizures, and 1 subject had possible epilepsy. None of the 100 screen-negative subjects interviewed had epilepsy. Age-specific incidence of epilepsy was generally low but increased with age. Incidence (per 100,000 person-years with 95%CI) was 10.6 [2.2, 30.9] between 45?59 years, 25.8 [10.4, 38.1] between 60?74 years, and 101.1 [41.4, 160.8] between 75?89 years. No difference was observed between males and females, but African-American race was associated with greater cumulative incidence of epilepsy (p = 0.048) and was a significant risk factor in the regression model (hazard ratio with 95%CI: 2.63 [1.07, 6.37]). Conclusions: The incidence of epilepsy was low in this relatively healthy elderly cohort. This study was unique in that we evaluated race as a covariate and observed elevated risk among African-Americans. Future analyses are planned to estimate the incidence among elderly individuals who do not have competing risk factors for epilepsy such as stroke and dementia, and to determine whether our race-specific findings are modified or confounded by cardiovascular risk factors. (Supported by NIH grant P01 AG03949 and an unrestricted grant from GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Jorge Iriarte, 1 Manuel Alegre, 1 Cesar Viteri, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Miguel Valencia, and 1 Julio Artieda ( 1 Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Clinica Universitaria, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain ) Rationale: The Bereitschaftspotential (BP) is a slow negative potential that precedes voluntary movements. Although very often used in motor control research, its clinical application is scarce. The goal of this study is to present two cases of paroxysmal events in which the BP has been diagnostic in standard video-EEG studies. Methods: Two patients presented with sudden jerking of the limbs. A 42-year-old woman had daily abnormal movements of the legs for more than 10 years. They appeared periodically at rest in wakefulness. The second patient is a 55-year-old man with daily sudden jerking of the arms, also in wakefulness, in the last year. The physical exam was normal in both cases. A digital 24-hours video-EEG recording was performed to find at least 100 limb movements. The movement-related potentials were calculated using back-averaging of the EEG activity in relation of jerk onset. Results: In the interictal recordings and during the episodes no epileptiform activity was noted. In the first patient, a BP was found when the patient imitated the movements, but not when studying the actual movements. In the second patient, a clear BP was found when studying the jerking movements. In the first case, the diagnosis of periodic limb movements was established. In the second patient, the voluntary nature of the movement was demonstrated. Conclusions: Back-averaging of movement-related activity is a feasible technique for the diagnosis of paroxysmal events. In the differential diagnosis between seizures, movement disorders and other non-epileptic events, the movement- related potentials can be used as a diagnostic tool if the events are frequent enough. 1 Gaby S. Pell, 1 Regula S. Briellmann, 1 Patrick C.H. Chan, 1 David F. Abbott, and 1 Graeme D. Jackson ( 1 Brain Research Institute, Austin Health, Heidelberg West, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) on MR imaging is associated with reduced hippocampal volume and increased T2-relaxation time. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) provides additional information on tissue microstructure. We perform a voxel-based (VB) analysis of DTI in temporal lobe epilepsy patients with unilateral HS. The common framework will allow comparison with VB morphometry (VBM) and VB T2-relaxometry (VBR). Methods: We assessed 15 healthy controls and 12 left HS patients at a 3T GE scanner. DTI was performed with 28 directions (b = 1100 s/mm3). An eight-echo CPMG sequence was used for T2-relaxometry, and a 3D SPGR sequence for morphometry. Data were analysed using FSL and SPM2 (Wellcome Department of Cognitive Neurology, London). For DTI, we assessed fractional anisiotropy and diffusivity. For VBM, we used an optimised protocol (1) and assessed both the gray and white matter segment. VBR was performed as described in our earlier manuscript (2). Threshold for all analyses was p < 0.001. Voxels were counted in ipsilateral peri-hippocampal and temporal lobe regions. Results: DTI changes in left HS were more pronounced than VBM or VBR abnormalities. The table shows the number of activated voxels with each technique. Reduced anisotropy was found in the left uncinate fasciculus, anterior temporal lobe (ATL) and corpus callosum. Increased diffusivity was found in the ATL and parahippocampal white matter. Gray matter volume loss was detected in the hippocampus proper, white matter volume loss in the ATL. VBR showed a T2 increase in the lateral and ATL white matter. Conclusions: The most prominent abnormality in the hippocampus proper was a volume deficit. Additionally, there were extensive temporal lobe white matter abnormalities. The DTI changes close to the hippocampus may be secondary, and associated with memory deficits and seizure circuits. The DTI, VBM and VBR abnormalities in ATL may be primary, and associated with temporal lobe development (3). REFERENCES Good CD, et al. NeuroImage 2001;14: 21?36 Pell GS, et al. Neuroimage 2004;21(2):707?713. Mitchell LA, et al. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2003;24: 1670?1677. Voxel counts in multi-modal structural MRI Perihippocampal ROI Temporal ROI VBD FA (reduction) ??63 6888 Trace (increase) 1048 4192 VBM GM (reduction) 1057 ??77 WM (increase) ???0 ?228 VBR T2 (increae) ??56 5712 Perihippocampal ROI includes the hippocampus proper and perihippocampal white matter, temporal ROI includes the reminder of the temporal lobe. Values are expressed as areas in mm3. (Supported by Neurosciences Victoria, the NHMRC Australia and the Brain Imaging Research Foundation. We thank the subjects for their participation in this study.) 1 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 1 John O. Elliott ( 1 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Elevated serum homocysteine (s-Hcy) is recognized as an independent risk factor in premature coronary disease. Furthermore, epidemiological studies have found ischemic heart disease is increased by 20% and fatal cardiovascular disease (CVD) is three times higher in patients with epilepsy. The incidence of cerebrovascular accident in epilepsy populations is estimated to be two to six times that of the normal population. Anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) have been shown to increase s-Hcy by lowering blood folate levels. The goal of this study was to examine homocysteine and other cardiovascular risk factors in epilepsy. Methods: We screened 405 clinic charts over the past 2 years to identify 120 subjects with CVD assessment including: age, gender, seizure type, years on AEDs, s-Hcy, serum folic acid (s-FA), lipids, glucose, blood pressure, weight, smoking and alcohol consumption, body mass index (BMI) and vitamin use patterns. Results: This was an adult epilepsy population: mean age (SD) was 44 years (14), range 17 to 81, there were 51 males and 69 females. Fifty were African American, 46 Caucasian, 20 Latino and 3 Asian/Other, average length of AED exposure was 26 years (SD = 14.8, range 2 to 64). Average homocysteine levels in micromol/L (SD) were 11.3 (7.6) for African Americans, 12.5 (8.3) for Latinos, 9.4 (4.1) for Caucasians and 6.8 (0.8) for Asian/Other. Homocysteine was inversely correlated with s-FA (n = 89; Pearson's r = -0.41, p = .000). Fifteen percent of subjects had s-Hcy levels > 15 micromol/L a concentration that is associated with a three-fold increase in myocardial infarction and a two-fold increased risk in carotid stenosis. Mean body weight was 174 lbs. (SD = 43.21). All four ethnicities had average BMI considered overweight based on National Institutes of Health guidelines. BMI was positively correlated with total cholesterol (n = 79; Pearson's r = 0.347, p = .002) and with LDL cholesterol (n = 74; Pearson's r = 0.321, p = .005). Mean total cholesterol (SD) was 197 mg/dl (39) and mean HDL (SD) 61 mg/dl (21) were within optimal ATP III guidelines. Mean LDL cholesterol (SD) was 113 mg/dl (34) which is considered above optimal. Eleven patients took statins. Mean blood pressure (SD) was 129/79 mmHg (18/11) which is in the pre-hypertensive range according to the revised JNC 7 guidelines. Twenty five patients received medication for hypertension. Conclusions: Phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, carbamazepine, valproic acid and lamotrigine are known folate antagonists. Homocysteine levels > 7 micromol/L increase the risk for CVD in a linear dose-response relationship with no specific threshold level. Elevated s-Hcy has responded favorably to vitamin supplementation in several epilepsy studies. However, s-Hcy remains elevated despite use of vitamins in half of the subjects. Other factors such as lipids, blood pressure and obesity require more intensive intervention. Preventative care in epilepsy clinic should consist of appropriate CVD screening with culturally sensitive health promotion. 1 Behrouz Jafari, 1 Daniel I. Rifkin, 1 Sandra A. Block, and 1 Mona Sazgar ( 1 Neurology, State University of New York at Buffalo/The Jacobs Neurological Institute, Buffalo, NY ) Rationale: Previous reports have documented coexistence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and epilepsy, as well as the effect of treating sleep apnea on seizure frequency and excessive daytime sleepiness. Our objective was to determine the prevalence of sleep related symptoms in a population with medically refractory epilepsy. Methods: This is a retrospective chart review study on an outpatient population who were seen at a tertiary epilepsy center within the Kaleida Health System at Buffalo, NY. From all the patients who were seen for seizure disorder, those with medically intractable epilepsy were selected. All of the patients had completed the same questionnaire about measures of sleep-related breathing problems, sleep disturbance, excessive daytime sleepiness, snoring, and hypertension. Other data including seizure frequency, seizure duration and type and number of anti-epileptic drugs were also extracted from the patient charts and entered into a database. Results: Of 84 adult patients with a diagnosis of epilepsy, 28 qualified for medically intractable epilepsy by the study criteria. Fifteen subjects (53%) reported symptoms of sleep disturbance including 14 (50%) with excessive daytime sleepiness, and 11 (40%) with snoring. Five patients (18%) had sleep disorders confirmed by polysomnography. Eight subjects (28%) had hypertension. Subjects with sleep disturbance were more likely to be younger and female. Although there was no statistical difference between the two groups with regards to the type and number of antiepileptic drugs and seizure localization (temporal versus extra-temporal), the subjects with sleep disturbance tended to have a higher seizure frequency per month, and were more likely to have their first seizures at a younger age (Student T-test p < 0.05). Conclusions: The high concordance between sleep disturbance and seizure intractability suggests that sleep disorders may play an important role in seizure exacerbation. The presence of features of sleep disturbance in patients with medically intractable epilepsy should alert the clinician to the possibility of an underlying sleep disorder contributing to the therapeutic resistance. Further studies are needed to clarify the mechanisms by which sleep disturbance contributes to seizure intractability. 1 Venkata V. Jakkampudi, 1 William S. Corrie, and 1 Robert J. DeLorenzo ( 1 Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Authors debate about the duration of a seizure before acute treatment is appropriate. We wished to provide data on the duration of seizures observed in the epilepsy monitoring unit when the seizures subsided without acute therapy. This data will assist this debate. Methods: We logged the five longest epileptic seizures of each patient who was eighteen years or older and was in our epilepsy monitoring unit between 1/1/2000 and 12/31/2004. Most patients were in acute anticonvulsant withdrawal, but not those with a history of status epilepticus. We excluded patients with invasive electrodes and patients who were studied to determine if seizures continued. Seizure onset and end were determined by a single epileptologist (W.S.C.) who is experienced in intensive seizure monitoring evaluations. He chose seizure start as the initial EEG change or clinical change. Usually, the end of the seizure was chosen on EEG criteria. Results: We observed seizures in 191 patients during this time. Most seizures (487) were of less than two minutes duration, 78 were 2?3 minutes, 21 were 3?4 minutes, 14 were 4?5 minutes, 9 were 5?6 minutes and 7 were more than 6 minutes long. Our longest seizure was 13 minutes in duration and was a partial simple seizure with only subjective symptoms. No primary generalized seizures were more than 3 minutes long. When seizures secondarily generalized, the generalized portion of the seizure was no more than 3 minutes long. However, the seizure could have a significant partial portion both before and after the generalized segment. None of our patients received medication to terminate a seizure, although several received medications shortly after a seizure when we judged that we had recorded enough events to answer the question posed for the admission. Conclusions: Our data demonstrates that most seizures last less than two minutes. However, some seizures can be quite lengthy, yet still be both self-limited and associated with mild symptoms. We did not observe ?lengthy? primarily or secondarily generalized seizures in this cohort. This data supports the advice to physicians to observe a partial seizure before giving an acute anticonvulsant medication. 1 Lara E. Jeha, 1 Imad M. Najm, 2 Bill Bingaman, and 1 Hans O. Luders ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Seizures persist in 30?54% of patients after anterior temporal lobectomy performed for the treatment of intractable temporal lobe epilepsy. Predictors and mechanisms of early versus late postoperative seizure outcome remain unclear. Methods: We reviewed the records of 371 adult patients operated on between 1990 and 2001 at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation. The primary outcome variable was any seizure recurrence. Multiphase hazard model analysis was used to construct a time-to-event curve. Plots of the predicted probability of any seizure recurrence by significant risk factors were produced. Multivariate logistic regression was used in additional analyses to calculate adjusted odds ratios. Results: Mean duration of follow-up was 5.5 years. Seizures recurred in 140 patients (38%). The rate of seizure freedom was 78% (95% CI = 75?81%) at 1 year, and 53% (95%CI = 47?58%) at 10 years. Seizure freedom at two years was lowered by frequent preoperative seizures (67% versus 79%, [p-value = 0.015], generalized-tonic-clonic seizures (74% versus 86%, [p-value = 0.029]), bilateral MRI abnormalities (58% versus 78%, [p-value = 0.004]), the use of invasive EEG monitoring (66% versus 77%, [p-value = 0.005]), and epileptiform discharges on EEG 6 months postoperatively (54% versus 78%, [p-value = 0.001]). Late seizure freedom (at 8 years) was lower when surgical pathology was restricted to gliosis (44% versus 64%, [p-value = 0.009]), and higher when intraoperative electrocorticography was used [p-value = 0.021]. Epileptiform EEG at 6 postoperative months predicted breakthrough seizures upon discontinuation of anticonvulsants [O.R = 4.29(95%CI = 1.21?15.13)]. Conclusions: Factors identified by 6 postoperative months predict early and late seizure recurrence after temporal lobectomy. The presence of different predictors of early versus late recurrent seizures suggests different mechanisms of recurrent disease at various postoperative intervals. 1 Sigmund Jenssen ( 1 Neurology, Drexel Medical College, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: The elderly in United States are representing a greater percentage of the general population than before. This age group has increased risk of developing epilepsy as compared to those who are younger. Previous reports indicate that in this age group the clinical presentation of new onset epilepsy is frequently varied and obvious epileptic seizures are sometimes not reported. Epileptiform activity in the EEG (EA) is highly specific for epilepsy when acute symptomatic conditions and PLEDS are excluded. Methods: We reviewed chief complaint (CC) and EEG findings in patients mimimum 65 years old with EA referred to the neurophysiology laboratory at Hahnemann University Hospital between October 2004 and April 2005 for possible new onset seizures. Patients with known additional acute CNS event, PLEDS, recent medication change, severe metabolic derangement or prior history of epilepsy were excluded. Results: 20 patients were found to have EA. Mean age was 79.5 (range 69 to 92), 12 were women. Some patients had two CC. Most common CC was confusion (13), then came fall (4), witnessed seizure (3), syncope (2), focal weakness (1), aphasia (1) and hallucinations (1). Of risk factors there was dementia (5), stroke (4) and meningioma (1) while ten with no risk factors. EEG showed diffuse slowing (5), normal back ground (15), electrographic seizures (2). EA was localized in one temporal lobe (10), both temporal lobes (8), parietal (1), or frontal (1). Most common medical condition was arteral hypertension (10). Conclusions: Chief complaint in new onset epilepsy among the elderly is varied, confusion being the most common and witnessed seizures less common. Although stroke and dementia are risk factors, many have no risk factors. Electrographic seizures are seen occasionally, even without reported witnesses seizures. We attempt to confirm these findings in a larger number of patients. 1 Barbara C. Jobst, 1 David Coffey, and 1 Peter D. Williamson ( 1 Section of Neurology, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH ) Rationale: Propofol is increasingly more popular for the treatment of status epilepticus due to the short half-life and ease of use. In children a rare but serious complication with acidosis and rhabdomyolysis has been reported. Propofol infusion syndrome in children includes cardiac and renal failure, rhabdomyolysis and severe metabolic acidosis. In children prolonged use (>48 hours) and doses above 5 mg/kg/hr have been associated with propofol infusion syndrome. Methods: We report an adult case of status epilepticus treated with propofol. The patient died of propofol infusion syndrome as a consequence. Results: A 36 years old women with intractable, localization related epilepsy was admitted due to non-convulsive status epilepticus. The patient was chronically treated with topiramate. Two weeks prior she had delivered a healthy girl after a complicated pregnancy. The patient required intubation after administration of benzodiazepines. Propofol was administered for intubation. While on propofol the patient continued to have motor activity and epileptiform EEG changes. Propofol was increased but the patient was never treated with higher doses than 5mg/kg/hr. With the addition of phenobarbital and valproic acid, status epilepticus was eventually controlled. The patient remained in a burst suppression pattern on EEG. Propofol was reduced to sedative doses, but 48 hours after admission the patient developed severe rhabdomyolysis, renal failure, lactic acidosis and cardiomyopathy. Despite several attempts of cardioversion the patient died of bradyarrhythmia on the fourth day after admission. Conclusions: Propofol infusion syndrome with rhabdomyolysis, renal failure, lactic acidosis and bradyarrhythmias does not only occur in children but also occurs in adults. It can be a deadly complication of the treatment of status epilepticus. Caution should be used if prolonged propofol infusion is required for status epilepticus. Patients should be monitored for signs of myolysis and acidosis. 1 Susan D. Kelley, 2 Selim R. Benbadis, and 3 Dalia Adams ( 1 Rehabilitation  2 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, FL ; and 3 Rehabilitation, Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, FL ) Rationale: Little is known about types of mental health treatment that is most effective for pseudoseizure patients who have high rates of psychiatric illness, specifically PTSD, depression, and dissociation (Bowman, 2001). Numerous controlled studies and case reports have provided evidence for the efficacy of Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing in the treatment of PTSD, a variety of anxiety disorders, dissociative symptoms, and somatoform disorders. To date, however, there have been no reported studies on using Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing with trauma-based psychogenic seizures. Methods: This pilot study integrates Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing into the psychological treeatment of pseudoseizure patients referred after video EEG monitoring confirmed the presence of psychogenic seizures and diagnostic interviews found virtually ubiquitous trauma experiences. Data were analyzed for patients referred from a hospital based clinic serving Floridians and persons from the southeastern U.S. over a 2 year period. Results: The study protocol comprised 2 to 3 initial sessions for diagnosis and rapport building followed by weekly Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing treatment ranging from 3 to 15 sessions. In the majority of patients, psychogenic seizures were either extinguished completely or decreased significantly in severity and frequency. Followup data reveals no return to seizure status for those patients successfully treated with Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing. Conclusions: Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing appears to be a viable intervention in the psychological treatment of psychogenic seizure patients. Further controlled studies will be needed. 1 Sejin Lee, 2 Daewon Seo, 3 Hyungkook Park, and 4 Sangdoe Yi ( 1 Neurology, Yeungnam Medical Center, Daugu, Korea ; 2 Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea ; 3 Neurology, Soonchunhyang University Hospital, Chunan, Korea ; and 4 Neurology, Keimyung University Hospital, Daegu, Korea ) Rationale: To describe the clinical and MR characteristics of patients with familial mesial temporal lobe epilepsy(MTLE). Methods: The MTLE was identified by clinical and EEG findings in 3 epilepsy clinics. Familial MTLE was defined when two or more family members presented with the diagnosis of MTLE. Results: Eight patients were diagnosis of familial MTLE in four unrelated families. Three of 8 individuals had typical aura of MTLE. Seizure types were complex partial with or without secondary GTCs in 6 of 8 patients. History of earlier febrile convulsion was positive in 2 patients. MRI showed hippocampal sclerosis in 3 of 7 patients(43%). Benign MTLE was seen in 6 of 8 patients(75%). Two patients with refractory MTLE had hippocampal sclerosis and received temporal lobectomy, and one patient became seizure free. Patients with hippocampal sclerosis have seizure onset early in life and have history of febrile convulsion, and seizures are often not well controlled. Conclusions: Familial MTLE is rather a clinically heterogeneous syndrome, in terms of MRI finding, seizure type and seizure outcomes in contrast to the original report of Berkovic. This may be partly due to absence of detailed diagnostic criteria of familial MTLE. So some of our patients may be just causal occurrence of MTLE in two family members. 1 Sang Kun Lee, 1 Jung Joo Lee, 1 Seo Young Lee, 2 Chun-Kee Chung, and 3 Dong Soo Lee ( 1 Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ; 2 Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ; and 3 Nuclear Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: In order to assess the role of various diagnostic modalities, to identify surgical prognostic factors and concordances with presurgical evaluations, and to characterize the clinical features of frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE). Methods: We studied 71 FLE patients who underwent epilepsy surgery and were followed up more than two years. Diagnoses were established by standard presurgical evaluation. Results: Thirty-eight of the 71 became seizure-free after surgery, and another 25 patients a favorable outcome. Clinical manifestations could be categorized into six types; initial focal motor (nine patients), initial versive seizure (15), frontal lobe complex partial seizure (14), complex partial seizure mimicking temporal lobe epilepsy (18), initial tonic elevation of arms (11), and sudden 2GTCS (4). The diagnostic accuracies of interictal EEG, ictal EEG, MRI, PET, and ictal SPECT were 28.9%, 60.5%, 47.4%, 36.4%, and 33.3% in the seizure free patients respectively. These were 21.2%, 57.6%, 24.2%, 28.6%, and 22.7% in non-seizure-free patients respectively. No significant relationship was found between the diagnostic accuracy of these modalities and surgical outcome except MRI (p = 0.038). The concordance of two or more modalities was significantly observed in seizure free patients (P = 0.027). Among other clinical characteristics (age at surgery, seizure frequency, sex, presence of 2GTCS, presence of possible causes, and side of surgery), only the side of surgery was a significant prognostic factors (The left side had poorer outcome.). No definite relationship was found between the location of intracranial ictal onset zone and clinical semiology. Conclusions: Though various diagnostic methods can be useful to diagnose FLE, only MRI can predict the surgical outcome. Concordance between presurgical evaluation modalities indicates a better surgical outcome. 1 Tonicarlo R. Velasco, 1 Roger Walz, 1 Americo C. Sakamoto, 1 Paulo Zanello, 1 Vinicius H. Borghetti, 1 Marino M. Bianchin, 1 Veriano Alexandre Jr., 1 Lauro Wichert-Anna, 1 Octavio Pontes Neto, 2 David Araujo Jr., 2 Antonio C. Santos, 1 Oswaldo M. Takayanagui, 3 Joao A. Assirati Jr., 3 Carlos G. Carlotti Jr., and 1 Joao P. Leite ( 1 Neurology, CIREP, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; 2 Radiology, Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirao Preto, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 3 Surgery, Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirao Preto, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: Neurocysticercosis (NCC) is a major cause of seizures in many less developed countries. Although less common, NCC is becoming a significant health concern in developed countries as well, mostly due to migration of infected persons. The main causes of intractable epilepsy (IE) are mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS), brain tumors (BT), and malformations of cortical development (MCD). Although studies in endemic regions have indicated that NCC is the leading cause of symptomatic epilepsy, there is no study investigating the relationship between calcified cysticercotic lesions (CCL) and intractable epilepsy (IE) in general. Here we carry out a cross-sectional study investigating the etiological profile of IE in our country, an endemic region for NCC, with attention to the presence of CCL. Methods: From 2002 to 2003, 512 consecutive patients (273 women) evaluated at Ribeir?o Preto School of Medicine Hospital, aged >18 years, were included in the survey. Intractability was defined as: 1) one or more seizures every 3 months during the last year of follow-up review or until successful seizure surgery, and 2) failure of two or more first-line AEDs at maximum tolerated doses. Neuroimaging included brain CT scans with contrasted and noncontrasted phases, high-resolution MRI with special protocols to epilepsy for all patients. Results: Five hundreds and twelve patients met our inclusion criteria. The mean age at enrollment was 38.66 ± 10.6 years. The mean age at epilepsy onset was 11.9 ± 7.4 years (range 1?36 years). The epilepsy duration was 21 years ± 11.3 years (range 3?48 years). The mean seizure frequency was 4.3 ± seizures per month. The most frequent epileptogenic lesion was MTS (52,6%), followed by MCD (13.8%), and BT (10.5%). cNCL were found in 38% of cases, but, in most cases, associated with another epileptogenic lesion. Isolated CCL were found in only 1,8% of cases. In addition, we found a very higher prevalence of CCL in MTS cases (36,7%), in comparison with extratemporal epilepsy (16,8%) (p < 0.01, Fisher's exact test). Conclusions: We found evidence that the etiological profile of medically IE is very similar to those from developed countries, and that neurocysticercosis, even in an endemic region as Brazil, is a rare cause of IE. We found that CCL were twice more frequent in patients with MTS than in those with extratemporal epilepsy, suggesting either a potential role of NCC in the development of MTS or that CCL and MTS covariate with another variable, such as socioeconomic status. (Supported by Fapesp/CINAPCE program, CAPES, and CnPq.) 1 Katia Lin, 1 Henrique Carrete Junior, 1 Patricia S. Sousa, 1 Gerardo M. Araujo Filho, and 1 Elza M.T. Yacubian ( 1 Neurology, UNIFESP/EPM, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: We aim to investigate the chemical integrity of the thalami in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) with different times of disease using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS). Methods: We performed multi-voxel 1H-MRS with TE of 30 ms (PRESS sequence) at 1.5 Tesla scanner over the thalami of 14 patients with 1?10 years of clinical history of JME and 16 patients with more than 10 years of disease (mean age = 21.3 vs. 31.5 and mean time of disease = 6.4 vs. 21.8, respectively). All patients had a typical history of JME, typical EEG findings and normal high-resolution magnetic resonance neuroimaging. We determined ratios for peak values of N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline, glutamine-glutamate and inositol over creatine-phosphocreatine (Cr). Results: Thalamic NAA/Cr ratios were decreased in JME patients with longer time of disease (right side = 1.4722 ± 0.2724; left side = 1.4817 ± 0.2206) compared to patients with less than 10 years of disease (right side = 1.8484 ± 0.2249; left side = 1.6903 ± 0.2539) with p values of 0.0004 and 0.0254, respectively. We did not find significantly differences of the other metabolites between both groups. Conclusions: These results are suggestive of progressive thalamic neuronal damage directly associated with time of disease in patients with JME. (Supported by CAPES/CNPq.) 1 Miao Liu, and 1 Nathan B. Fountain ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, University of Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: Population based epilepsy studies provide accurate estimates of incidence and prevalence but provide limited data about precise seizure type and epilepsy syndrome characteristics because a detailed seizure history and prior antiepileptic drug (AED) use can't be obtained. We prospectively collected data on a finite epilepsy population to determine the characteristics defining each seizure type and epilepsy syndrome. Methods: Standardized data were prospectively collected by epileptologists from patients seen in the UVA Epilepsy Clinic from April 1998 to November 2004. Data was acquired directly from patients and medical records, then refined and cleaned by standardized methods and updated at each clinic visit. Analysis was limited to patients with definite epilepsy 5 years old or greater. Data collected included demographics, ILAE seizure (SZ) type, ILAE epilepsy syndrome, etiology, EEG, neuroimaging, family history, and current and prior antiepileptic drug use. Patients were categorized into 14 classes by the combination of SZ types they possessed. SZ frequency of each SZ type was plotted over time from June 2000 to November 2004. Results: A total of 1638 patients were analyzed. Overall, mean current age is 31.9, mean age at seizure onset was 14.4, and 49% are female. An etiology is known in 16% and 49% had a family history of epilepsy. Median current SZ frequency is 3/mo. The median for the highest monthly frequency ever reported by patients is 5/mo and for the minimum seizure frequency ever reported is 1/mo. Patients most frequently reported having only partial-onset SZ (60%) compared to only generalized SZ (37%) and mixed partial and generalized SZ (4%). Among the 14 categories of SZ combinations, CPS + Secondarily Generalized (25%) and Multiple Generalized (17%) are most common. The most common syndromes are Symptomatic Localization-Related Not Further Classifiable (17%), Cryptogenic Generalized Not Further Classifiable (16%), Idiopathic Generalized Not Further Classifiable (8%), and MTLE (7%). Other specific syndromes were less frequent. The mean number of AED ever used is 4. AEDs are not used at all by 9% while 19% use three or more AEDs. 47% patients previously failed three or more AEDs. Patients with only generalized SZ more commonly are off all AEDs (11%). Conclusions: It is well know that partial-onset seizures are more common and this clarifies that CPS + secondary generalization is the single most common combination of SZs. The etiology of epilepsy is rarely identifiable and most patients do not fit into a specific syndrome but MTLE is the single most common specific syndrome. A surprising minority of patients was not on AEDs but nearly half have failed 3 AEDs. (Supported by University of Virginia Comprehensive Epilepsy Program.) 1 Pascal Masnou, 1 Jean-Paul Gagnepain, 2 David Adams, and 1 Viviane Bouilleret ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Bicetre Hospital University, Kremlin-Bicêtre, Paris, France, Metropolitan ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Bicetre Hospital University, Kremlin-Bicetre, Paris, France, Metropolitan ) Rationale: Piloerection is rarely described in seizures. In the few reported cases, it has been suggested it involves the connections between the temporal lobe and the hypothalamus or the preoptic areas. We describe the first case of a patient who experienced pilomotor seizures for several weeks in relation to a transient MRI signal abnormality. Methods: A 35-year-old right-handed woman exhibited sudden epilepsy with a seizure frequency reaching 30 per day. They lasted less than 90 seconds each. They consisted of bilateral sensation of chill associated with nausea, thoracic sensation, and followed few seconds later by piloerection involving both arms and legs. EEG recording found slow waves on the left temporal region. MRI performed one week after the first seizure, showed a T2 and FLAIR signal increase in the left mesial temporal area without mass effect. She received antiepileptic drugs which decreased the severity and the frequency of seizures. Four months later, MRI showed a clear regression of the signal abnormality. At this time the number of seizures decreased from 30 to 10 per day. EEG-video performed at this time, recorded 6 seizures, each lasting less than 1 minute. These seizures consisted of sensation of chill ascending from the feet to all of the body associated with piloerection in the left arm. Results: Ictal EEG found a rythmic slow activity with a maximum amplitude on the left central and temporal area. Conclusions: Our observation showed that piloerection could be the main feature in the course of partial seizure of temporal lobe origin. The transient MRI T2 and FLAIR signal abnormality might be in relation with the high seizure frequency. Piloerection is probably more frequent than suggested in the course of temporal lobe seizures. 1,2 James W. McAuley, 1 Ian B. Hollis, and 1,3 Thomas Wolfe ( 1 College of Pharmacy, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; 2 Department of Neurology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; and 3 Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Comprehensive treatment of epilepsy involves many facets including self-management behaviors. The most common self-management strategy is adherence to an antiepileptic drug (AED) regimen. Controlling other non-drug related factors, such as management of information, concern for personal safety, management of the seizures themselves, and lifestyle issues can also play a large role in the overall success of therapy. The purpose of this clinical study was to determine the relationship between self-management behaviors and clinical outcomes. Methods: Adult epilepsy patients whom were able to complete the surveys by themselves and had been taking AED therapy for at least 6 months were recruited from our outpatient epilepsy clinic for this cross-sectional, descriptive study. We used two previously-validated surveys to assess various self-management behaviors. Morisky's four-item self-reported adherence measure (not epilepsy-specific) and DiIorio's 38-item scale that assesses frequency of use of epilepsy self-management practices were administered to a random sample of patients. We also collected clinical (seizure activity, number of AEDs and presence/absence of toxicity) and demographic information. The response to the Morisky questions provides a score ranging from 1 to 4. A score of 1 categorizes the patient in the ?low? medication-taking behavior category, a score of 2 or 3 is ?medium? and 4 is ?high? medication-taking behavior. On the Epilepsy self-management scale (ESMS), each item is rated on a 5-point scale ranging from 1 = Never to 5 = Always. Higher sores indicate more frequent use of self-management strategies. In addition, this scale can be divided into 5 subscales that address patient management of medication, information, safety, seizure and lifestyle. Results: Data on eighteen patients (8 female, 10 male) has been collected to date. Their average age is 42.61 yrs (range 26?64). Patients were taking an average of 1.53 AEDs (range 1?2) as well as other prescription medications (median = 2.5, range 1 to 18). Their monthly seizure burden ranged from seizure-free (n = 7) to ?daily? seizures (mean ± STD = 4.1 ± 10.45). Despite 7 patients acknowledging they have ?forgotten to take their medications,? the average Morisky Score had most of them in the ?High? medication taking behavior category (3.39 ± 0.92). The average ESMS scores indicated frequent use of self-management strategies (3.62 ± 0.43). On our initial evaluation of this data, the medication-taking behavior did not predict the clinical outcomes. Conclusions: In our small sample of patients, we have found that it is not simply medication-taking behavior that influences seizure activity. Further exploration of the relationship between clinical outcomes and other non-drug self-management strategies is needed. 1 Flavia S. Miyashira, 2 Henrique Carrete Jr., 1 Elza M.T. Yacubian, 1 Eliana Garzon, and 1 Americo C. Sakamoto ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Radiology, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: To report findings on temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) due to mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) population at UNIPETE, from 2000 to 2005, including epidemiologic, imaging and natural history data. Methods: All diagnosed TLE due to MTS outpatients were included. Epidemiologic data was performed, as well as age and kind of initial precipitating insult (IPI) if present, age at first and second seizures, time spared until maximal tolerated dosage (MTD) of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), presence of remission period, epileptogenic zone lateralization, age at MTD and age at surgery if applicable were evaluated. Results: We had 149 patients, aged 16 to 72 (40± 10years), 81 (54.36%) female, (85.23%) right-handed. According to lesion area, 80 (53.69%) were left-sided, 59 (39.59%) were right-sided and 10 (6.7%) were bilateral. 63 (42.28%) had IPI, mainly febrile seizures (52%). First spontaneous seizure (FSS) occurred from 0,08 to 55 years (11±10). Remission of seizures was seen in 31(21%). 89 (60%) reached MTD at 39±9, 28±11.5 years after FSS. 52 surgeries has been performed, age at surgery was 39±9, 29±12 years after diagnosis. Conclusions: TLE due to MTS in this service seem to present similar points to what previously described in literature; the time spared from first seizure to MTD is larger than that observed in developed countries, which might be related to socio-economic conditions, leading to surgeries later in life, with all its related consequences. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Rajiv Mohanraj, and 2 Martin J. Brodie ( 1 Department of Neurology, Royal Perston Hosptial, Preston, Lancashire, United Kingdom ; and 2 Epilepsy Unit, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Idiopathic generalized epilepsy syndromes (IGES) constitute 20?40% of all epilepsies. Up to a third of cases are diagnosed after the second decade of life1. The prognosis of IGES in the non-pediatric setting may vary from that in infants and children because of differences in genetic, environmental and lifestyle factors. Methods: All patients diagnosed with IGES at the Epilepsy Unit, Western Infirmary, Glasgow, Scotland, between 1981 and 2001 were included in the study. Demographic and clinical data, including syndrome classifications and pharmacological outcomes, were collated by a review of casenotes. Response to treatment was defined as complete control of seizures for 12 months. Patients remaining seizure free to the end of follow up were considered to be in remission. Results: Of 780 patients diagnosed with epilepsy over the 20 year period, 105 (13%) met the clinical and electroencephalographic (EEG) criteria for IGES. The median age at onset was 17 years (range 5?51). Syndromes included Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy (JME, n = 55), Epilepsy with Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (GTCS) Only (n = 28), Epilepsy with GTCS on Awakening (n = 7), Juvenile Absence Epilepsy (n = 4), Epilepsy with GTCS during sleep (n = 3), Late Onset Myoclonic Epilepsy (n = 3), Childhood Absence Epilepsy (n = 2) and Epilepsy with Myoclonic Absences (n = 1). Overall, 76 (74%) patients responded to treatment. Sixty-six (64%) of these attained remission, which was achieved with antiepileptic drug (AED) monotherapy in 56 (54%) cases. The responder rate in the whole cohort with valproate (66%) was higher than with lamotrigine (45%), but this difference did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.076). In patients with JME, however, valproate was significantly more likely to produce remission (75%) than lamotrigine (39%; p = 0.014). The effect of age at onset, gender, family history of epilepsy, history of febrile seizures, psychiatric co-morbidity, epileptiform abnormalities on EEG and seizures types on treatment outcomes was analysed by logistic regression. History of febrile seizures was the only factor that was significantly associated with reduced probability of remission (Odds ratio 0.18; 95% CI 0.03?0.96) Conclusions: IGES constituted 13% of cases in a largely adult cohort of newly diagnosed epilepsy. Approximately 2/3 of these patients achieved remission with AED therapy, mostly with a single drug. Valproate appeared to be the most efficacious drug, especially in JME. Previous febrile seizures were associated with reduced likelihood of remission, which could imply a genetic component to pharmacoresistant IGES. REFERENCE 1.?Marini C, King MA, Archer JS, Newton MR, Berkovic SF. Idiopathic generalised epilepsy of adult onset: clinical syndromes and genetics. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2003;74: 192?196. 1 Majid Molaie, and 1 James Brust ( 1 Neurology  Dept. of Neurology, U of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT; Dept. of Neurology, U of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT; Dept. of Neurology, U of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT; and Department of Radiology, U of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT ) Rationale: Most versions of the language and memory component of the intra-carotid amytal (ICA) test employ a cutoff score denoting the point at which test failure is judged to occur. There may be patients with low enough baseline cognitive functioning who might fail such tests under any circumstances. For such patients the ICA procedure for testing language and memory functioning would be invalid. This study attempted to identify such patients and the variables that would predict them. Methods: The study examined a group of adult candidates (n = 54) for epilepsy surgery. Three equivalent versions of the language and memory portion of the ICA test were developed. The version of the language and memory test used during the pre-injection, baseline phase was randomly selected. The study analyzed the relationship of clinical variables and neuropsychological test variables to performance on the practice version of the test. Results: Average scores on the practice version of the test were uniformly quite high (mean language score = 14.93, mean memory score = 9.81). No subjects scored below the cutoff for failure. No relationship was found between clinical variables and performance on the baseline test. A moderate correlation was found between the baseline memory test and one pre-surgical neuropsychological test of memory. Otherwise, scores on the baseline test were unrelated to any of the neuropsychological test scores. In some cases, scores on the pre-surgical neuropsychological tests were quite low (WAIS-III full scale IQ = 50). In none of these cases were there failures on the baseline test. No relationship was found between scores on the baseline test and the ability of patients to cooperate with the actual ICA procedure. Thirty-one subjects had surgery for seizure control. Seventy per cent of these had good surgical outcomes. Several had post-surgical subjective complaints of language or memory problems. None had amnestic disorder. No relationship was found between scores on the baseline test and surgical outcome or post-surgical subjective complaints. Conclusions: The validity of the ICA test depends on the use of test procedures that any patient can perform at baseline. The results of this study indicate that procedures can be designed whose validity is resistant to the effects of extremely low pre-surgical cognitive functioning. With ICA test procedures where this presumption may not automatically be present, the validity of test participation can be confirmed with an equivalent baseline version of the test prior to the actual clinical procedure. 1 Vincent Navarro, 1 Claude Adam, 2 Claire Petitmengin, and 1 Michel Baulac ( 1 Epilepsy Unit, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France ; and 2 INT-GET, Groupe des Ecoles de Télécommunication, Evry, France ) Rationale: Tooth-brushing epilepsy is a very unusual form of reflex epilepsy, provoked by the act of tooth brushing. We report a 57-year-old patient with intractable partial epilepsy in which seizures were induced not only by tooth brushing, but also by seeing or thinking to a toothbrush or toothpaste. Methods: Patient was referred to our Epilepsy Unit for long-term video-EEG recordings. Various types of cognitive tasks were performed to provoke seizure. Results: The first seizures started at the age of 50. The patient noted that several activities related to a toothbrush frequently provoked the seizures (approximately 40% of the seizures). Seizures could be provoked by (i) tooth-brushing, especially in the morning, or (ii) seeing a toothbrush or toothpaste (its own, or seen on TV, in supermarket), especially if these objects were seen in an inadequate location, or (iii) thinking to toothbrush or toothpaste. No other trigger factor was identified. The seizure started with the pleasant feeling to be somewhere else during few seconds, then the patient felt anxious and a loss of consciousness with oral automatisms may occur. Brain MRI was normal, except for few hypersignals in the white matter and moderate enlargement of the lateral ventricles. During the video-EEG monitoring, four seizures were recorded. Two were elicited by tooth brushing in the bathroom, while the patient was alone. Several tests failed to provoke a seizure: tooth-brushing in front of the video camera, presentation on a TV screen of various pictures related to the toothbrush, researching a toothbrush hidden in the patient's room. On the other hand, two seizures were elicited by the evocation of (i) the TV advertisement that recently had provoked a seizure (a man with a toothbrush), and (ii) a place related to seizures that the patient avoided. The EEG showed a left temporal lobe onset of the seizures, and interictal epileptic spikes in the same area. Conclusions: This is, to our knowledge, the first report of reflex epilepsy in which seizures could be provoked by thinking to a toothbrush. This case differs from four previous patients reported with tooth-brushing epilepsy, for which hyperexcitability of the suprasylvian operculum was suggested. EEG and clinical data of our patient suggest a left temporal epileptogenic focus. We hypothesize that this epileptogenic zone may be closely related to the neurons responsible for the mental representation of the toothbrush in the temporal lobe. 1 Maromi Nei, 2 Reginald T. Ho, 1 Michelle A. Payne, 2 Tammi Wicks, and 1 Michael R. Sperling ( 1 Neurology, Jefferson University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Cardiology, Jefferson University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is most commonly seen in patients with refractory epilepsy. The etiology is uncertain, although a cardiac arrhythmia may be responsible for death in some patients. Video-EEG/EKG monitoring reveals that many patients have EKG rhythm and repolarization abnormalities in association with their seizures. However, thus far only limited data are available re: cardiac rhythm in these patients over several months. Objective: Assess the types of and frequency of cardiac rhythm and repolarization abnormalities over a 14-month period in patients with refractory epilepsy. Methods: Patients with refractory epilepsy with ≥1 complex partial, generalized tonic-clonic, tonic, or atonic seizure/month underwent cardiac rhythm monitoring using a subcutaneously implanted recording monitor (Medtronic Reveal), to be implanted for a total of 14 months. Individuals ≥ 50 yrs of age or who had a history of cardiac disease or abnormal EKG were excluded. Patients were evaluated by a neurologist and cardiologist at 1 month after device implantation, then every 3 months thereafter for a maximum duration of 14 months for device interrogation. At each interrogation, data regarding heart rate and rhythm as well as repolarization abnormalities were noted. Patients or caretakers were asked to keep a seizure log and activate the device at the time of seizures. In addition, automated heart rate detection of rates < 30 and >180 BPM was programmed. Results: Thus far 13 patients (mean age 38.7 yrs, range 23?47 yrs; 8 men, 5 women) with refractory epilepsy (2 idiopathic generalized, 3 symptomatic generalized, and 8 partial) have been implanted and recorded over an average of 6.8 months (range 0.5 - 14 months). Patients had a history of epilepsy onset at a mean age of 7 years and epilepsy duration of 31.7 years. An average of 31 seizures/patient occurred during the study period. 3 patients had active vagal nerve stimulators. 2 patients (who did not have active vagal nerve stimulators) had sinus pauses of up to 4.8 seconds recorded unassociated with seizures. 2 patients had T wave inversions occurring only in association with seizures (1 patient with generalized tonic-clonic seizures, 1 patient with tonic seizures). All other patients had only sinus rhythm or sinus tachycardia associated with their seizures. Conclusions: Preliminary data suggests that patients with refractory epilepsy may be at increased risk for cardiac ischemia during seizures. Additionally, sinus pauses may occur in these individuals without evidence of a seizure. Further investigation in larger numbers of individuals is needed to determine the clinical significance of such abnormalities in this patient population. (Supported by Medtronic, Inc.) 1 Juan G. Ochoa ( 1 Neurology, University of Florida, Jacksonville, FL ) Rationale: Clinical practice differ significantly from the methodology used in postmarketing studies to assess the efficacy and tolerability of antiepileptic medications. Retrospective review permits analysis of the practice parameters and outcome measures without influencing them. The lack of restrictions regarding label indications, titration parameters, dosage, etc may change the outcome compared to controlled prospective studies. Methods: To compare the experience of a typical epilepsy center and the postmarketing data regarding the outcome after treatment of epilepsy with levetiracetam, restropective review were performed at the Epilepsy Clinic at The UF Neuroscience Institute, Jacksonville, FL between July 1,2002 and June 30, 2004. 100 random charts containing patients treated with Levetiracetam were extracted from our epilepsy clinic database. Incomplete records were excluded. 68 patients with diagnosis of epilepsy treated with levetiracetam were included. Results: 68 patients included 53% women and 47% men, 19% had a generalized epileptic disorder and 81% had focal epilepsy with or without generalization. The average age was 45 years including three (4.4%) children. The average total dose was 1994 mg and 17.6% was monotherapy. The overall seizure reduction at least 50% of reported baseline was 57% including a seizure free of 36%. Among the patients on monotherapy 50% became seizure free and 75% had a seizure reduction at least of 50%. The side effects more commonly reported included somnolence 17.6% and behavioral 11.8%. Memory deficit and dizziness occurred only in 2.9 and 1.5% respectively. 17% discontinued treatment because of side effects and it was related to behavioral side effects (7.4%) and sedation (7.3%). Only 4.4% discontinued treatment due to lack of efficacy. Comparing with the results of the Keeper trial efficacy was similar, at least 50% seizure reduction of 57% in both studies and a seizure free of 36% versus 20% in Keeper trial.The side effect profile was similar as well regarding somnolence 17% versus 16% and behavioral 11.8% versus 7.4%. However dizziness was rather infrequent 2.9% compared with 9.0% in the Keeper trial.. Conclusions: The results of this study are comparable with the Keeper trial, a multicenter open label community based study, including efficacy and side effect profile. This study included small group of patients on monotherapy who reported higher seizure freedom and efficacy, however the number is too small to draw conclusions. (Supported by unrestricted grant by UCB.) DEMOGRAPHICS AGE 11?80 Average 45 years GENDER ?Male (29) 43% ?Female (39) 57% RACE ?White (42) 62% ?African-american (22) 32% ?Other (4) 6% SEIZURE TYPE ?Absence (1) 1% ?Myoclonic (6) 9% ?Generalized (6) 9% ?Partial with generalization (21) 31% ?Complex Partial (30) 44% ?Simple Partial (4) 6% SEIZURE FREQUENCY Average 13/mo DAILY DOSE Average 1994 Time to maximal dose Average 7.5 months Levetiracetam Treatment time Average 6.8 months CONCOMMITANT AEDs ?0 18% ?1 40% ?>1 42% # PAST AEDs ?0 (7) 10% ?1 (19) 28% ?2 (21) 31% ?>3 (21) 31% 1 Soochul Park, 1 Yo Seob Won, 1 Ji-yun Kim, 2 Mijin Yun, and 2 Jong Doo Lee ( 1 Neurology, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea ; and 2 Nuclear Medicine, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea ) Rationale: Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) must be an important prognostic factor in terms of medical treatment and also resectable epilepsy surgery. Decreased glucose metabolism in epileptogenic focus was suggestive of irreversible damage with prognostic implication. Attention has not been much paid to the prognostic implication between the glucose metabolism in temporal lobe and HS.We tried to define the clinical characteristics in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) depending on the decrease of the glucose metabolism and also the impact of hippocampal sclerosis in the same situation. Methods: 68 epilepsy patients with temporal spike in EEG were recruited. 56 patients among them had unilateral hippocampal sclerosis in MRI. The patients with additional lesion except for HS in MRI were excluded and patient with history of central nervous infection also excluded even in case of the isolated unilateral HS in MRI. Analysis was done to define the clinical profiles and prognosis between 40 patients with HS and 11 patients without HS. All of those showied decreased glucose metabolism in temporal lobe in 18F-FDG PET image. Another trial was done between those 56 patients with decreased metabolism in temporal lobe and 12 patients with normal MRI but without decrease of glucose metabolism in PET. Results: In the first trial, preponderance of female prevalence was noted, even in group of normal MRI with decreased metabolism. The incidence of head trauma in addition to the febrile convulsion was statistically significant higher in the group with HS (P < 0.05). Automatism was in higher in HS group but nocturnal preponderance was noted in normal MRI group. Good prognosis (Angel? class I. and II.) was statistically significant in normal MRI group (17.5% vs. 43.8%; p < 0.05). In second trial, head trauma was also higher incidence in the group with normal glucose metabolism than those of the decreased glucose metabolism. Complex partial seizure without 2? GTC, clustering nature, and nocturnal dominancy were statistically significant higher in normal glucose group. The prognosis of the group with normal metabolism was statistically significant (p < 0.05) better than those of the group with decreased glucose metabolism and normal MRI. Conclusions: This study suggested that decreased glucose metabolism in temporal lobe made some effect on difference of clinical profiles of TLE, even though in the presence of HS. Decreased glucose metabolism in TLE seemed to be an independent prognostic factor irrespective of the presence of HS in MRI. 1 Arjune M. Patel, 1 Raj D. Sheth, 1 Bruce P. Hermann, 1 Christian Dow, and 1 Jana Jones ( 1 Neurology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI ) Rationale: Speed of propagation of seizures in temporal lobe epilepsy to the contra lateral temporal lobe is predictive of seizure outcomes. In humans direct seizure propogation from ipsilateral hippocampus to contra lateral hippocampus is believed to occur through neocortical parenchymal spread. Fast propagating seizures are associated with worse outcomes following temporal lobectomy. The relationship between seizure propagation times in temporal lobe epilepsy and MRI volumetrics and neuropsychological function, however has not been examined. Methods: Propagation times from the ipsilateral to the contra lateral temporal lobe were measured using presurgical video telemetry. Propagation times were correlated with a comprehensive array of neuropsychological measures and quantitative MRI total brain grey and white matter volumes. Normalized Z-score measures were used for both neuropyschological testing and for MRI volumetrics. Analysis was performed on second seizure propagations by dividing groups into fast (<5 seconds) and slow (>5 seconds) propagators based on the median propagation times. Results: 20 patients had 2nd seizure propagation times that could be analyzed. 9 had fast propagation times (2.3 ± 1.8 seconds) and 11 had slow propagation time (10.3 ± 5.4 seconds). Slow propagators had significantly better immediate (105.45 ± 14.4 vs. 89.44 ± 22) and delayed auditory memory (103.18 ± 12.3 vs. 89.22 ± 19.3). Similarly memory scores were also better for slow propagators (100.09 ± 16.6 vs. 86.56 ± 16.4). Fast propagators had greater total cerebral volumes compared to slow propagators. Segmentation by grey and white matter volumes were also larger for fast propagators compared to slow propagators Conclusions: These findings suggest that faster propagation of seizures to the contra lateral hemisphere is associated with worse neurophysilogical function and larger grey, white and total brain volumes. 1 Scott Pearlman, 1 Diana Richardson, and 1 Mary R. Andriola ( 1 Neurology, Stony Brook Epilepsy Management Program, Stony Brook, NY ) Rationale: Topiramate (TPM) is a newer antiepileptic medication available in the United States for the treatment of epilepsy since 1996. It is indicated as adjunctive therapy for adults and pediatric patients ages 2?16 years with partial onset seizures, or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and in patients 2 years of age and older with seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. The purpose of this study was to review our clinical experience with TPM in an adult population. Methods: We retrospectively analyzed the charts of 12 adults with a variety of epileptic syndromes who had been on prior therapy and had an EEG while on TPM from Jan 2003 to Dec 2004. Ages ranged from 22 to 56 years. Demographics, seizure types, previous antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), dosages, concomitant AEDs, adverse events and outcome were recorded. Results: Twelve patients were included; five men and seven women. Eight had partial onset epilepsy, and four primary generalized epilepsy. Associated disorders included mental retardation, renal failure, and history of meningitis. Patients were taking up to 3 AEDs when TPM was added. A >50% seizure reduction was found in 8 patients (67%) Adverse events (AEs) included nephrolithiasis, behavioral difficulties, and parasthesias. Two patients experienced beneficial weight loss. Three patients discontinued treatment due to AEs. One patient undergoing hemodialysis required an additional dose with dialysis for adequate seizure control. Conclusions: Topiramate is an effective and well tolerated medication in the adult population for both partial onset and primary generalized epilepsy. Monotherapy is possible in both partial and generalized epilepsy patients. In this population studied all had difficult to control epilepsy and we were able to achieve significant improvement in 67% of our patients. 1,2 Timothy E. Welty, 1 Andrea Pierce Ashley, and 2 Edward Faught ( 1 McWhorter School of Pharmacy, Samford University, Birmingham, AL ; and 2 Department of Neurology, University of Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: Osteoporosis (OP) is a well-documented chronic adverse effect of AED therapy. DEXA scans are the standard testing procedure for OP. However, DEXA can be costly and exposes a patient to radiation. Heel ultrasound (HU) is less costly, can be performed during a routine office visit, and is less risky. HU is used in many screening programs for OP, but has not been evaluated as a tool to screen for OP due to AED therapy. Methods: Patients ages 19?70 yrs with epilesy and managed in our clinc are eligible for this study. Inclusion criteria are patients receiving PB, PHT, CBZ, or VPA for at least 6 months. Patients are excluded if they are pregnant, on chronic corticosteroid therapy, taking prescription medications for OP, have parathyroid disorders, are institutionalized, or have sores or abrasions on feet. A questionnaire is completed by the patient to asses OP risk factors and calcium intake. HU is performed in clinic using a Sahara Hologic Sonometer. Each patient is sent for a DEXA scan. WHO standards for diagnosis of osteopenia and osteoporosis are used. The primary outcome is comparison of HU to DEXA results. Secondary outcomes are evaluation of various risk factors and calcium intake. Statistical analysis will be using a students t-test and Pearson's correlation coefficient with α= 0.05. A power analysis to detect at least a half standard deviation between HU and DEXA showed at least 64 individuals should be enrolled. Results: A total of 65 participants will be enrolled. Preliminary evaluation of the first 7 patients enrolled in the study shows a mean age of 49.6 yrs, among 5 women and 2 men. Mean duration of older AED therapy was 12.4 yrs. 3 patients smoke an average of 1 ppd, 3 women had a hysterectomy, 2 patients have a fracture history, the mean caffeine intake is 2.4 cups of coffee/day, and 1 is taking hormonal replacement therapy. Four patients are osteopenic according to HU using WHO standards. Two patients have completed the study and the final diagnosis was consistent between HU and DEXA (1 osteopenic and 1 normal). A full comparison and evaluation of patients enrolled will be made. Conclusions: Very preliminary data show that HU may be a useful screening tool for OP in patients taking chronic AED. 1 Aleksandra Pikula, 1 Costas Michaelides, and 1 Georga D. Montouris ( 1 Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA; Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA; and Department of Neurology, Boston Univesrity School of Medicine, Boston, MA ) Rationale: Refractory status epilepticus (RSE) is associated with a high mortality and high incidence of neurological sequelae. Long term follow up (up to one year) of three patients treated with prolonged iatrogenic coma for RSE is reported. Methods: Three female patients ages 17, 29 and 33 years were admitted to the ICU in status epilepticus refractory to standard treatment. Two were new onset seizures secondary to viral encephalitis and the third was an exacerbation of seizure activity secondary to a mitochondrial disorder. Prolonged iatrogenic coma was induced for up to 54, 59 and 81 days respectively. All three required high doses of antiepileptic medications, in polypharmacy to control seizure activity. VNS was implanted in one case to control seizures Upon hospital discharge, all of the patients were followed by an epileptologist. Medications were reviewed and adjusted when necessary, seizure count was recorded, evaluation of activities of daily living (ADL) was noted and neurological exam was performed. Results: All three patients have improved seizure control on polypharmacy. One patient experienced breakthrough seizures secondary to missed doses of AED. She is now seizure free on dual drug therapy. Neurologically, she demonstrates only a mild monoparesis of a lower extremity. The patient with a mitochondrial disorder has rare simple partial hemifacial seizures. She has demonstrated significant gain in ADL, ambulation, and speech,all of which show improvement over her pre RSE condition. The third patient with concomitant diagnosis of schizophrenia experienced breakthrough seizures when,at another facility, reduction of AEDs was undertaken. Currently, adjustments have been made with significant improvement in seizure control. Fluctuations in cognitive skills are seen, which may be related to her psychiatric condition. She does not however, demonstrate any focal neurological deficits. Conclusions: The management of RSE remains a challenge. Each of the patients required prolonged iatrogenic coma. Each responded to different agents and to polypharmacy. Long term outcome has been favorable in each case. Despite the perception that RSE carries a poor prognosis, close supervision and aggressive treatment can result in a favorable outcome 1 Gerard Pinol, 1 Jose Angel Mauri, 1 Carlos Tejero, 1 Iris De la Puerta, 1 Luis Fernando Pascual, and 1 Enrique Mostacero ( 1 Service of Neurology, Clinical Hospital, Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain ) Rationale: We had studied demographic characteristics, stroke risk factors, size of lesions, seizure type and EEG findings. We evaluated if the patients received antiepileptic drugs after the first seizure and also we evaluated the recurrence of seizures along 5 years. Methods: Included in this study were 1061 cerebrovascular disease patients (846 ischemic stroke, 186 hematoma and 29 subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH)) who were admitted to the Department of Neurology of Clinic Hospital to Zaragoza between January 1998 and December 2000. Of these patients, 39 had early seizures in acute stroke. Results: 3.7% of patients (2.2% with ischemic stroke, 8% hematoma and 13% SAH) experienced one first-ever seizure. Mean age of 70.15 years. Arterial hypertension was the main risk factor stroke, it was present in 44% of patients. Of 39 patients, 54% developed generalized seizures and 46% partial onset. The main territory of ischemic stroke affected was medium cerebral artery. Cardioembolism was the main cause of ischemic stroke with seizures. 58% and 42% of hematomas were lobars and lentriculars respectively. Death was in 18% of patients in the first week. 61% of patients received antiepileptic drugs and phenitoine was the most used. Conclusions: Male patients with hipertension and hematoma or SAH suffer early seizures in most frecuency. High mortality in the first week. Low recurrence of seizures in the future and so the antiepileptic treatment musn't be prolonged more than 3 month. 1 Wesley J. Poynor, and 1 William R. Garnett ( 1 School of Pharmacy, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ) Rationale: Zonisamide (ZNS) is a broad spectrum antiepileptic drug that exhibits a significant interaction with phenytoin (PHT): the half-life of ZNS is decreased by 60% (from 69 hours to 28 hours) due to the induction of enzymatic metabolic activity by PHT. Our objective was to explore this interaction with particular attention to the reverse drug interaction, i.e., the withdrawal of PHT therapy and its clinical implications for ZNS dosing. Methods: We developed a pharmacokinetic multiple-dosing model based upon a previously published multiple-dose clinical study of ZNS in normal volunteers. Using this model, we simulated the addition of PHT to ZNS monotherapy. We also simulated the withdrawal of PHT from binary therapy. In these simulations we assumed that enzyme induction due to PHT occurred over a 7 day period (i.e., the half-life of ZNS decreased gradually over a 7 day period). We also assumed that the de-induction of enzyme metabolic activity occurred over a 7 day period and that this de-induction phase did not occur until PHT levels were substantially zero, which we assumed occurred 7 days after the discontinuance of PHT therapy. Results: The decline in ZNS plasma levels upon adding PHT was 60%; perhaps more significantly, the ZNS plasma levels seen on monotherapy were more than double those seen with PHT co-therapy. We note that in co-therapy with PHT, ZNS dosing levels could easily be pushed from 200 mg BID to as high as 400 mg BID and still have plasma levels in the therapeutic range of 15?30 mcg/ml. When withdrawing PHT from co-therapy, there is a 7 day period during which PHT levels are declining to zero and the enzymatic metabolic activity is still induced. De-induction occurs after PHT levels are virtually zero and we assume to occur over 7 days. In this case the ZNS dose must be decreased to a target level of 200 mg BID. Assuming that we raised the dose of ZNS to 400 mg BID when given with PHT, we recommend decreasing the ZNS dose beginning 7 days after discontinuing PHT therapy. Thereafter we recommend decreasing the ZNS dose to an intermediate level (300 mg BID in our example) for 3 days (6 doses) and then beginning the 200-mg-BID maintenance dose regimen. This strategy is based on solid pharmacokinetic evidence and maintains plasma levels of ZNS in the therapeutic range throughout the transition Conclusions: ZNS dosing when given with PHT can be rationally elevated from the monotherapy dose recommendation of 200 mg BID up to a 400 mg BID level. The adherence to a 200 mg BID dose in co-therapy with PHT may explain apparent failure to achieve additional antiepileptic activity when adding ZNS. The reverse drug interaction occurs when PHT is withdrawn from ZNS therapy. Because of the dramatic effect of PHT on ZNS half-life, dose adjustments are necessary when PHT is withdrawn. (Supported by Eisai, Inc.) 1 Leo Bonati, 1 Yvonne Nägelin, 2 Heinz Gregor Wieser, 1 Peter Fuhr, and 1 Stephan Rüegg ( 1 Department of Neurology, Divsion of Clinical Neurophysiology, University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland ; and 2 Department of Neurology, Division of Epileptology and EEG, University Hospital, Zürich, Switzerland ) Rationale: Ictal focal beta activity (IFBA) is a rare electroencephalographic seizure pattern, predominantly reported in patients with intractable seizure disorders. One large prior study (n = 16'432) observed IFBA in only 0.024% of patients, most of them children with secondary epilepsies. More recently, ictal beta activity on scalp EEG and intracranial EEG was reported in patients with neocortical epilepsies undergoing presurgical evaluation. There is little data on this seizure pattern beyond such patients and studies describing it in human status epilepticus are lacking. Methods: Report of two patients, in whom IFBA became the only electroencephalographic seizure pattern in the late phase of refractory status epilepticus (RSE) (patient 1), and in non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) (patient 2). Results: Patient 1: 52 year old female patient with bitemporal non-lesional epilepsy since age 18. Non-adherence to AED treatment and methaqualone intoxication induced RSE lasting 54 days. Various treatments, pentobarbital anesthesia inclusively, failed. RSE eventually subsided under high-dose midazolam and carbamazepine. On day 42, serial episodes with complete loss of responsiveness and tonic upward-gaze were observed; EEG showed high-amplitude beta activity for 15?20 seconds, followed by attenuation. These seizures persisted until was RSE stopped. Patient 2: 49 year old male schizophrenic patient without history of seizures admitted because of confusional state and hyperglycemia. Medications were quietiapine, biperiden, and risperidone. Repetitive episodes (up to 20/h) of slight tonic right-sided head version and starring started on day 2. Concomitant EEG showed high-amplitude beta-activity for 45?60 seconds followed by slowing and subsequent attenuation. NCSE responded well to lorazepam and valproic acid. Conclusions: Our patients both showed IFBA as the exclusive electroencephalographic seizure pattern in NCSE. IFBA must be differentiated from lateralized asymmetric non-epileptic beta activity occuring in patients with infarcts and tumors who do not experience seizures. Differential diagnosis of IFBA in our first patient additionally includes high-dose benzodiazepine treatment, but the clinical and electroencephalographic evolution render this cause very unlikely. In the second patient, seizure semiology during early NCSE allowed immediate recognition of the ictal nature of the beta activity. However, in the first patient, the ictal nature of beta activity was unequivocally recognized only after she showed a clear clinical seizure correlate (starring and upward-gaze deviation) in the late phase of RSE. With minimal or absent clinical seizure manifestations, antiepileptic treatment in NCSE is predominantly guided by EEG. Therefore, the recognition of rare or atypical electroencephalographic seizure patterns, such as IFBA, is essential in these patients. 1 Susan Rahey, 1 Mark Sadler, and 2 Andrew Ross ( 1 Medicine (Neurology), Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre, Halifax, NS, Canada ; and 2 Diagnostic Radiology, Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre, Halifax, NS, Canada ) Rationale: To report supernumerary phantom limb as an ictal phnomenon. Methods: A 66 year old right handed biologist presented with a 4 year history of stereotypic spells. His attacks are characterized by a nonspecific feeling of anxiety and unsteadiness followed by a profound perception that he has developed a third upper extremity. The supernumary limb cannot be seen but is perceived as ?right handed,? is positioned directly in front of him, and that the fingers can be moved. The experience has sufficient reality that the patient has attempted to use the limb during automatic movements (e.g. to use the turn signal while driving; unsucessfully bracing himself against falling). These events last 2?5 minutes, ocasionally 10, and occur up to 6 times daily. Impaired consciousness or motor phenomenon have never occurred. The mental status examination revealed minor defects of immediate memory and attention but the neurologic examination was otherwise normal, including evaluation of parietal lobe function. Results: The MRI scan disclosed periventricular and subcortical white matter ischemic change. The interictal EEG was normal. An ictal EEG (coincident with the perceived appearance of the third arm) disclosed a new 4?6 Hz polymorphic rhythm predominantly at CZ-C4. An ictal HMPAO-SPECT scan demonstrated a restricted zone of increased perfusion in the right central-parietal area. Carbamazepine, lamotrigine, and levitiracetam have been poorly tolerated and without benefit. Conclusions: A supernumerary phantom limb may occur as an ictal accompaniment of parietal lobe epilepsy. A literature search found only 3 previous reports of similar phenomena, with none since 1968. 1 Maria V. Recio, 1 Bassel W. Abou-Khalil, 1 Michael J. McLean, and 1 Martin Gallagher ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Cerebellar lesions are associated with epilepsy but it is not known what type of epilepsy is associated with them. There are reports of seizures originating in the cerebellum itself in patients with cerebellar lesions, but it is not known how often this is the case in patients with congenital or acquired cerebellar lesions. Here we characterized epilepsy associated with cerebellar malformations by reviewing the records of all patients in our database with cerebellar malformations. Methods: We identified patients with documented epilepsy from our database. Medical records were reviewed for age, gender, age at seizure onset, family history for epilepsy, risk factors for epilepsy including febrile seizures, seizure type, localization and frequency, response to treatment, epilepsy surgery if performed, and eventual outcome at follow-up. Symptoms and neurological examination signs cerebellar dysfunction were reviewed. Brain CT and MRI images were reviewed for cerebellar as well as extracerebellar abnormalities. We excluded patients with only cerebellar atrophy. Results: We identified 10 patients (8 women) with cerebellar lesions and epilepsy in our database of 2288 epilepsy patients. Their ages ranged from 26 to 52 years (mean 37.5); age at seizure onset ranged from 2 weeks to 30 years (mean 10.2). The cerebellar malformations included Dandy-walker cyst (3 patients), cerebellar tumors (3 patients), posterior fossa arachnoid cyst (2 patients- one with abnormal cerebellar segmentation and one with cerebellar hemisphere and vermis hypotrophy), agenesis of the left cerebellar hemisphere (1 patient), Chiari malformation and cerebellar hypotrophy (1 patient). Cerebellar exam abnormalities were present in four patients. The epilepsy was classified as partial in 9 patients (2 left mesial temporal, 3 right mesial temporal, 1 left frontal, 1 left occipital, 2 unclassified), and one symptomatic generalized. A presurgical evaluation was performed in 6 patients. The epileptogenic focus was temporal in 5 and in the supplementary motor area in one. The brain abnormality considered responsible for epilepsy was hippocampal sclerosis in 4 patients, hippocampal malformation in 1 patient, temporal tip cortical malformation in 1 patient. Five patients had epilepsy surgery (4 temporal, 1 mesialfrontal). All had a favorable initial response to surgery becoming seizure-free (Engel class I) or almost seizure-free (Engel class II), but seizures eventually recurred in 2 patients after one year with no seizures. Conclusions: Epilepsy with cerebellar structural abnormalities is most often of temporal lobe origin. There is usually associated temporal lobe pathology accounting for the seizure tendency, including hippocampal sclerosis and temporal developmental malformations. Cerebellar pathology should not preclude epilepsy surgery 1 J.J. Uranga Rodriguez, 1 F. Chaves Villalobos, 2 O. Serrano Prian, 2 I. Pozo Trujillo, 2 C. Sanchez Ruiz, 2 C. De la Torre Rueda, and 1 Jimenez Hernandez ( 1 Neurology, Hospitales Universitarios Virgen del Rocio, Seville, Seville, Spain ; and 2 Psychology University, Seville University, Seville, Seville, Spain ) Rationale: We present a 33-year-old woman presented with a subacute confusional state, headaches, myoclonus, seizures, unsteadiness and an amnesic syndrome as a presentation of Hashimoto's encephalopathy. Methods: Complementary investigations showed euthyroidism,raised thyroid microsomal antibodies, pleocytosis in CSF, negative neuronal potassium channels, negative antineuronal antibodies, negative PCR for herpes simple virus in four determinations, continuous bitemporal spikes in EEG, normal PET study, chest CTscan and mamography. Results: The patient was 21 days in intensive care unit with invasive ventilation and general anesthesia with unresponsive to antiepileptic drugs. A T2-weighted MRI of the brain showed bilateral symmetric areas of increased signal in the mesial temporal lobes and hippocampus that had a low signal intensity on T1-weighted imaging and gadolinium enhanced. The clinical and radiologic improvement after steroid and inmunoglobulin therapy. The patient was assessed neuropsychologically three months after discharge. Her scores on executive skills, visual, verbal, working and autobiographical memories were all pathological. Her scores on language, visuospatial, visuoconstructive functioning were all above average. Atentional process are slowed. Conclusions: The clinical and laboratory features in this case support a diagnosis of Hashimoto's encephalopathy. We think than the immunoglobulin treatment is a important options in those patients. We conclusions that in cases with epilepticus status and bilateral mesial temporal involvement is necessary to reject Hashimoto's encephalopathy and use precocious inmunomodulador treatment for prevent consequences. The thyroid microsomal antibodies determinations is necessary in cases with bilateral mesial temporal involvement and cryptogenic epilepticus status. 1 Charles A. Sansur, 1 Jeff Elias, 1 David S. Geldmacher, and 1 Mark Quigg ( 1 Neurosurgery, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA; Neurosurgery, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA; Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA; and Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA ) Rationale: Assessment of eloquent functions during brain mapping usually relies on testing reading, speech, and comprehension to uncover transient deficits during electrical stimulation. These tests stem from findings predicted by the Geschwind-Wernicke hypothesis of receptive and expressive cortices connected by white matter tracts. Later work, however, has emphasized cortical mechanisms of language function. We report two cases that demonstrate that conduction aphasia is cortically-mediated and can be inadequately assessed if not specifically evaluated during brain mapping. Methods: To determine the distribution of language on dominant cortex, we performed electrical cortical stimulation using implanted subdural electrodes during brain mapping before epilepsy surgery. We report our findings in two patients. There was an interelectrode distance of 1cm. We stimulated adjacent pairs of contacts using a 50 Hz square wave signal starting at a duration of 2 seconds and an intensity of 4.5 mA. We increased duration to 5 seconds and increased current by 1 mA increments until (1) a response occurred, (2) an afterdischarge or clinical seizure occurred, or (3) no response was achieved at a stimulus of 12.5 mA/5 seconds. Results: We elicited a transient, isolated deficit in repetition of language with stimulation of the posterior portion of the dominant superior temporal gyrus in one patient and of the supramarginal gyrus in the second patient. Conclusions: These cases demonstrate a localization of language repetition to the posterior perisylvian cortex. Brain mapping of this region should include assessment of verbal repetition to avoid potential deficits resembling conduction aphasia. This study provides further evidence that the white matter disconnection hypothesized by the Wernicke-Geschwind model is not an obligatory cause of conduction aphasia. 1 Kimberley K. Schaub, 1 Nancy Foldvary, and 1 Peggy Crawford ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Research in sleep and epilepsy has revealed a dynamic relationship between the disease and the sleep-wake cycle. Many people with epilepsy report excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS), commonly attributed to the effects of seizures and/or antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Primary sleep disorders, such as sleep apnea are yet another cause of EDS. In some patients with epilepsy, sleep instability, possibly independent of these forementioned factors, may be present as many individuals with epilepsy have increased latency to sleep onset, increased number and duration of awakenings, decreased sleep efficiency, increased number of shifts between stages of sleep, and decreased or fragmented REM sleep on polysomnography (Besset, 1982; Touchon, Baldy-Moulinier, Billiard, et al., 1987, 1991). EDS can negatively affect quality of life. As a result, many attempt to compensate for sleepiness with the use of caffeinated beverages. Caffeine, a mild stimulant, is the most widely used psychoactive drug in the world and in high doses may cause nausea, trembling, nervousness, as well as increased seizure frequency (Zagnoni and Albano, 2002). The purpose of this study was to investigate caffeinated beverage consumption in individuals with epilepsy and to identify demographic and disease related variables associated with its use. Methods: Participants were one hundred and ten adults (42% male) aged 18?75 with medically intractable epilepsy, referred for surgery evaluation at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation. All subjects participated in a health psychology evaluation that included questions regarding employment, education, psychiatric and sleep history as well as use of caffeinated beverages, alcohol and illicit drugs. Fourteen percent of participants were treated with monotherapy, 66% were taking two AEDs, 17% three, and 4% four or more AEDs (intermittent benzodiazepine use excluded). Forty-two percent were employed and 58% were not currently employed. Results: Caffeinated beverage consumption ranged from 0 to 128 oz. daily, with an average of 30 oz. Although no significant differences were observed in caffeinated beverage consumption between men and women, individuals who consumed larger quantities of caffeine also used nicotine, alcohol, or illicit substances regularly and were more likely to be employed. Disease related variables, particularly greater numbers of AEDs, correlated with greater caffeine consumption. Conclusions: These results suggest that use/overuse of caffeinated beverages is common among individuals with medically intractable epilepsy, particularly those on AED polytherapy, use other substances, or are employed.Given the impact that these issues have on quality of life, these findings highlight the importance of further research into the causes and treatment of sleep and wake disturbances associated with epilepsy. 1 Andreas Schulze-Bonhage, 2 Christhop Kurth, and 3 Thomas Mayer ( 1 Epilepsy Centre, University Hospital Freiburg, Freiburg, Baden-Württemberg, Germany ; 2 Epilepsy Centre, Kork, Kehl-Kork, Baden-Württemberg, Germany ; and 3 Epilepsy Centre, Diakonie Kleinwachau, Liegau-Augustusbad, Sachsen, Germany ) Rationale: Premonitory symptoms are usually defined as phenomena occurring more than 30 minutes before the onset of epileptic seizures. So far, their meaning is unclear, unlike auras, they are, however, generally not regarded as a correlate of ictal epileptic activity. So far few data are available on their prevalence and to their semiologic characteristics as compared to auras in the same patient. This study investigated the prevalence and type of premonitory symptoms in epilepsy patients at three german tertiary referral centers. Methods: Questionnaires were handed out to a total of 500 unselected patients at the epilepsy centers of Freiburg, Kork, and Kleinwachau agreeing to participate. 415 patients had epilepsies classified as focal, 82 had epilepsies classified as primarily generalized. Patients were asked to report the presence of signs or symptoms preceding seizure for at least 30 minutes. If premonitory symptoms were present, they were asked to describe their nature. These data were related to the epilepsy syndrome and to seizure semiology. Results: 35/500 patients (7.0%) reported symptoms occurring more than 30 minutes preceding the onset of seizures. 30 patients had focal epilepsy (prevalence 7.2%), 5 had generalized epilepsy (prevalence 6.1%). The median of estimated time of premonitory symptoms preceding the seizure was 90 min (range 30 minutes - 24 hours). Most common symptoms reported were restlessness, headache, feeling uncomfortable, nausea, disturbance of concentration, dizziness and tiredness. In 17/35 patients also auras were reported; in three of them, symptoms were similar suggesting that they also suffered from prolonged auras. In the majority of patients, however, symptoms differed considerably. Conclusions: This cross-sectional study in patients at tertiary referral centers resulted in a frequency of premonitory symptoms well below previous reports which may be due to the fact that other studies did not investigate auras separately. Differences in semiology between premonitory symptoms and auras in the vast majority of patients suggest a different underlying pathophysiology. 1 Tania M.G. Henriques, 1,2 Fulvio A. Scorza, 1,2 Ricardo M. Arida, 2 Carla A. Scorza, 2,4 Roberta M. Cysneiros, 1 Fernando Freua, 1 Sandro Mandaoufas, 1 Luciano Costantini, 1 Ricardo Staffa, 2 Viviane Brito, 3 Cristiane Baldauf, 3 Meire Argentoni-Baldochi, 3 Cassio R. Forster, 3 Carla Baise-Zung, 3 Valeria A. Mello, 3 Claudia T.S. Ruggi, 3 Arthur Cukiert, and 3 Marly De Albuquerque ( 1 Engenharia Biomedica, Universidade de Mogi das Cruzes, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; 2 Neurology, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; 3 Hospital Brigadeiro, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ; and 4 Departamento de Farmacologia, Universidade Sao Camilo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The objective of this study was to address the quality of life (QOL) in patients after cortical resection. Methods: Forty-three non-consecutive patients (26 males) submitted to both temporal and extratemporal cortical resection were studied. They were assessed using the SF-36 questionnaire. The SF-36 is a generic instrument with the following domains: functional capability, mental health, social function, emotional aspects, physical function, general status of health, vitality, bodily pain; used to assess quality of life. The follow-up time after CR ranged from 2 month to 11 years. Fifty six per cent of patients had controlled seizures, 39.5% had complex partial seizures and 4.6% presented partial seizures with secondary generalization. Results: Mean age of our population was 37.4±10.1, ranging from 17 to 58 years old. The mean score for each domain for cured/non-cured patients were as follows: vitality, 81/62; general health status, 82/65; pain, 79/59; social function, 84/63; emotional aspects, 81/47; mental health, 77/53; physical function, 88/61 and functional ability, 94/82. Conclusions: Our study suggests that the type and frequency of seizures might be important factors in QOL measures. Assessing QOL and outcome after epilepsy surgery could lead to a better understanding of the various aspects related to the well being of chronically refractory epileptic patients. (Supported by FAEP, FAPESP, CNPq and CAPES.) 1 Larissa I. Seredycz, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Health services research in epilepsy is in its infancy in many parts of the world. This type of research is crucial in understanding provisional health services in epilepsy, treatment gaps, and determinants of variations encountered. Whether the right patients are receiving the right interventions at the right time requires research of this nature. Administrative databases are a rich resource that has been used in many areas but rarely in epilepsy. ICD9, and more recently ICD10 codes are utilized worldwide in administrative databases. There is little information on the validity of ICD9 codes for epilepsy and no information on ICD10 codes. We undertook a before and after comparison of ICD9 and ICD10 epilepsy coding in inpatients in a large health region. Methods: All discharge diagnoses in Canada are ICD coded and captured in a central repository. ICD9 codes were used in our region until 2000. Thereafter ICD10 codes were adopted. We obtained ICD codes epilepsy- related, in any sequence (whether most responsible diagnosis for admission or not) for 2000 (ICD9) and 2004 (ICD10), in five inpatient facilities within the entire Calgary Health Region (population 1.4 million). We grouped ICD codes into generalized, localization-related, status epilepticus and other. We examined the distribution of each group within the two coding systems, both as a most responsible diagnosis and as other diagnoses. Results: The following ICD 9 codes were used: generalized epilepsy (345.0, 345.1, 780.4, 333.2), localization-related epilepsy (345.4, 345.5), status epilepticus (345.3, 345.7), other epilepsy (345.8, 345.9). For ICD 10 the following codes were used: generalized epilepsy (G40.3, G40.4, G40.6, G40.7), localization-related (G40.0, G40.1, G40.2), status epilepticus (G41.0, G41.2, G41.8, G41.9, G40.5), other epilepsy (G40.8, G40.9). In the absence of overt changes in availability of inpatient services, ICD9 captured 968 patients and ICD10 captured 625 per year. Table 1 Conclusions: In the absence of expected changes in the patient population or rate of admissions, substantial discrepancies occurred between types of epilepsy and numbers of epilepsy captured by the two coding systems. ICD10 coding seems better at capturing localization-related epilepsy and status epilepticus as well as having fewer patients in the non-specific (other epilepsy) category. This difference was apparent both for most responsible diagnosis and for other diagnoses. Before ICD codes can be used extensively in health services research, further research should focus on their accuracy based on comparison with clinical diagnoses, in addition to exploring variables that explain differences between systems. Distribution of epilepsy type by ICD code ? ?Generalized Localization ?Related Status ?Epilepticus Other ?Epilepsy ICD9 Most ??Responsible Diagnosis 60% 8% 8% 24% ICD10 Most ??Responsible ??Diagnosis 29% 45% 16% 10% ICD9 Other ??Diagnosis 37% 6% 5% 52% ICD10 Other ??Diagnosis 34% 20% 15% 31% 1 Amre Shahwan, 1 Colin Doherty, 2 Gianpiero Cavalleri, 1 Peter Kinirons, 3 Patrick Dicker, 1 Mary McCarthy, 2 David Goldstein, and 1 Norman Delanty ( 1 Neuroscience, Beaumont Hospital and Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin, Ireland ; 2 Biology, University College London, London, United Kingdom ; and 3 Bio-Informatics, Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin, Ireland ) Rationale: Controversy has surrounded the reported association of the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs1045642 (C3435T) in ABCB1 (multidrug resistance gene, MDR1) with refractory epilepsy. We further examined this question by (a) Attempting to replicate the original association and (b) Using a combination of tagging SNPs and direct sequence based methods to examine whether other variants in the gene are associated with drug resistant epilepsy in an Irish epilepsy cohort. Methods: 440 patients with an established diagnosis of epilepsy were enrolled. Phenotypic information was recorded in a secure linked anonymised database. We examined C3435T to replicate the original association. We also genotyped 5 additional tagging SNPs and 3 putatively functional variants. Results: Of 440 patients, 242 were drug responsive and 198 were drug resistant. Direct comparison of the genotypes of both groups revealed no significant association of any particular SNP with refractory epilepsy. Haplotype analysis failed to yield significant association of either group with a particular genotype. Discussion: An association of the CC genotype at C3435T has been reported in patients with drug resistant epilepsy(1). An exact replication study has failed to confirm that association.(2).However, the association was replicated by a similar but not identical definition of pharmacoresistance(3). It is possible that the C3435T polymorphism is not itself causal but associating through LD with the causal variant. Hence,analysis of SNPs in strong LD with C3435T has been suggested(4). We attempted an exact replication using map and sequence based methods but failed to find a significant association with drug resistant epilepsy. Conclusions: We examined C3435T as well as all other common variants in MDR1 and failed to identify a significant association with drug resistant epilepsy.This supports the view that the original association(1), maybe a false-positive finding. However, the ambiguous nature of the phenotype definition does not rule out a role variation in MDR1 with pharmacoresistance in a specific group of antiepileptic drugs. REFERENCES 1.?Siddiqui et al Association of multidrug resistance in epilepsy with a polymorphism in the drug-transporter gene ABCB1. N Engl J Med 2003;348: 1442?8. 2.?Tan et al Failure to confirm association of a polymorphism in ABCB1 with multidrug-resistant epilepsy. Neurology 2004;63: 1090?92. 3.?Zimprich et al Association of an ABCB1 gene haplotype with pharmacoresistance in temporal lobe epilepsy. Neurology 2004;63: 1087?89. 4.?Soranzo et al Identifying candidate causal variants responsible for altered activity of the ABCB1 multidrug resistance gene. Genome Res 2004;14: 1333?44. (Supported by International League Against Epilepsy and Programme of Human Genomics.) 1 Niranjan N. Singh, 1 John B. Selhorst, 1 Jayant N. Acharya, 1 Ajitesh Rai, and 1 Eve M. Holzemer ( 1 Neurology, Saint Louis University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO ) Rationale: During initial clinical trials of ondansetron, only 10 patients (<1%) had seizures. All had tumors with numerous risk factors for seizures. There are only two additional reports of seizures following ondansetron administration in humans, one in a patient with septic shock after resuscitation from cardiac arrest, and another in a patient with metastatic breast cancer on chemotherapy. In animal studies, both proconvulsant and anticonvulsant effects of ondansetron have been described. Methods: Retrospective review of three patients evaluated during the period 2004?2005. Results: There were two females and one male. Ages ranged from 38?56 years. None had a previous or family history of seizures. Past medical history was significant only for diabetes, with one patient presenting in diabetic ketoacidosis. A generalized tonic-clonic seizure occurred in each patient 12, 15 and 22 minutes after injection of 4 mg of ondansetron intravenously for severe nausea and vomiting. Seizures were brief and patients returned to their baseline clinical state within a few minutes. Although no antiepileptic drugs were given, none had seizure recurrence subsequently. Brain MRI and EEG were normal in all patients. Conclusions: The temporal relationship between ondansetron administration and seizures, lack of EEG or MRI abnormalities and absence of seizure recurrence suggest that the seizures in our patients were causally related to ondansetron. Ondansetron associated seizures may be more common than previously recognized and can occur in patients with no obvious predisposing factors. Based on previous reports and our own experience, they typically present as a single generalized tonic-clonic seizure within 30 minutes of parenteral administration of ondansetron. The exact mechanism is unknown. 1 Tanvir U. Syed, 1 Ahsan M. Arozullah, 1 Anu K. Podichetty, and 1 Eduardo R. Locatelli ( 1 Neurology Department, Cleveland Clinic Florida, Weston, FL ) Rationale: To determine whether a diagnosis of nonepileptic seizures (NES) can be predicted by sociodemographic information and a simple questionnaire. Methods: Epileptic and NES patients were recruited from a multispecialty community-based clinic equipped with an epilepsy-monitoring unit. The diagnosis of NES was confirmed by video-EEG monitoring and clinical data. Patients completed a self-administered survey consisting of quality of life (QOLIE-31), depression, and anxiety scales. Subsequently, an interviewer-based questionnaire was used to assess sociodemographic information, attitudes toward self-care, social-support, trust in the healthcare system, self-efficacy, and health-literacy. Epilepsy-specific parameters included seizure frequency (per month), seizure control (seizure-freedom for the past 12 months), time since diagnosis, and AED compliance. The bivariate relationship between each potential predictor and the diagnosis of NES was tested using the chi-square test for categorical variables and the independent t-test for continuous variables. Predictors with p < 0.20 in the bivariate analysis were entered into a stepwise conditional multivariate logistic regression model with the diagnosis of NES as the dependent variable. Predictors with p > 0.05 in the regression model were sequentially deleted from the analysis until only statistically significant predictors remained. Results: To date, 98 epileptics (mean age 42 ± 17, 60.2% female, mean seizure frequency 2.6 ± 0.7) and 19 NES (mean age 41 ± 14, 94.7% female, mean seizure frequency 11.1 ± 3.7) have completed both surveys. Bivariate analysis identified female gender (p = 0.004), Non-Caucasian ethnicity (p = 0.087), unemployment (p = 0.102), low income (p = 0.016), increased seizure frequency (p < 0.001), greater time since diagnosis (p = 0.017), poor AED compliance (p = 0.196), low QOLIE-31 score (p = 0.001), depression (p = 0.001), anxiety (p = 0.001), low social support (p = 0.067), and low self-efficacy (p = 0.068) as potential predictors of a diagnosis of NES. The medication effects subscale of the QOLIE-31 and the tangible subscale of the social support inventory were the only subscales not found to be significantly related to a diagnosis of NES. The final logistic regression model retained female gender (OR = 17.3 [1.6, 183.6]), low income (graded from 1 = lowest to 7 = highest, OR = 0.74 [0.56, 0.99]), low overall-quality-of-life subscale score of QOLIE-31 (scaled 0?100, OR = 0.94 [0.92, 0.98]), and higher seizure frequency (OR = 1.1 [1.03, 1.17]) as independent predictors of a diagnosis of NES. The C-statistic and GOF statistic for the model were 0.894 and 0.338, respectively. The positive predictive value for predicting a diagnosis of NES in our patients was 91.4%. Conclusions: 2 items from the QOLIE-31 questionnaire (overall-quality-of-life subscale) and sociodemographic information may be useful in differentiating NES patients from true epileptics. 1 Jose F. Tellez-Zenteno, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: A previous epidemiological study has shown that patients with epilepsy have substantial comorbidity of chronic conditions1. We hypothesized that the somatic multicomorbidity in epilepsy is not specific for epilepsy, but that other chronic conditions share similar comorbidity. Methods: We analyzed data from the National Population Health Survey (NPHS, 49,000 respondents) and the Community Health Survey (CHS, 130,882 respondents). Both surveys used probabilistic sampling of the entire Canadian population and explored the presence of 19 common chronic conditions, ascertained through trained personal interviewers. We obtained risk ratios for prevalence of chronic conditions in 4 target disorders that can affect similar age groups: epilepsy, asthma, migraine and diabetes Results: 19 chronic somatic conditions were explored. 13 chronic conditions occurred significantly more frequently in epilepsy patients than in the general population, 10 in asthma, 14 in diabetes and 10 in migraine (Risk ratio >1.0, 95% CI excluded the null value). Chronic conditions with very high prevalence (Risk ratio >2) in our target disorders were: Epilepsy: upper gastrointestinal problems, stroke, urinary incontinence, bowel disorders, chronic fatigue, migraine, pulmonary conditions and heart disease. Migraine: upper gastrointestinal problems, bowel disorders, and chronic fatigue. Diabetes: arthritis, high blood pressure, pulmonary conditions, heart disease, stroke, cataracts, thyroid conditions, cancer and glaucoma. Asthma: pulmonary conditions and chronic fatigue. Conclusions: Epilepsy has the highest somatic comorbidity. It is similar in frequency to Diabetes, a systemic, multiorgan condition. However, the profile is different, only 3 of 8 highly comorbid conditions were shared. Only fatigue and pulmonary conditions occurred in at least three of our target disorders. Comorbid conditions in migraine and asthma were infrequent, but similar in type to epilepsy. We conclude that somatic comorbidity in epilepsy is as high as in systemic, multiorgan disorders, and that it cannot be explained simply as a function of its chronicity. We discuss methodological issues and validity of findings REFERENCE 1.?Gaitatzis A, Carroll K, Majeed A, Sander W. The epidemiology of the comorbidity of epilepsy in the general population. Epilepsia 2004;45(12):1613?1622. 1 Maria E. Fontela, 1 Maria B. Viaggio, 1 Veronica De Simone, and 1 Alfredo Thomson ( 1 Epilesy Section, Department of Neurology, Hospital Frances, Buenos Aires, Argentina ) Rationale: There is a known increased mortality rate in patients with epilepsy. Sudden unexpected death is the most important epilepsy related cause of death. Experimental and clinical data support that early age at onset of seizures, mental retardation, frequent tonic-clonic seizures as well as intractability are significant risk factors for sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). The main autopsy finding, pulmonar oedema, is still not enough to understand the cause of death of the affected patients. Depending on the cohort studied, SUDEP is responsible for 2 to 18% of all deaths, although the incidence may be up to 40 times higher among young adults with epilepsy. However, (up to our knowledge) incidence of SUDEP in South America has not been reported. The aim of our study is to communicate the frequency of SUDEP in our population. Methods: Clinical records of patients evaluated in our Section from 1999 to December 2004 were reviewed. History of their disease, personal data, treatment given, circumstances of death and autopsy reports were analyzed. Patients with epilepsy who died suddenly and unexpectedly, fulfilling established SUDEP criteria were included. Results: Total of clinical records evaluated: 1000 (from 1999 to Dec. 2004). Educational program about SUDEP was started in 2003. Seven cases fulfill SUDEP criteria, 5 were females and 2 males. Six died between December 2002 and 2004 and one in 1999 (this particular death was read in newspaper and relatives were contacted). The average age at seizure onset was 10,71 ± 4,46 years (range: 3?16 years old). The mean age of death was 33,85 ± 6,7 (28 to 45 years old), resulting in mean duration of seizures of 23,14 ± 7,24 years. Two cases had primarily generalized epilepsies and five suffered from focal seizures with secondary generalization. Three patients were mentally retarded and one had a vascular sequelae in temporal lobe. Except for this patient, all the others had normal MRIs. Seizure frequency median was 4/month (range: 2?150/month). All patients were intractable but one. All of them were on politherapy. No patients had any other potential cause of death and were, aside from epilepsy, healthy at the moment of death. Five patients underwent necropsy, and were classified as definitive SUDEP. The autopsy reported: pulmonary oedema in 3 cases and no remarkable findings in the others. Conclusions: The clinical features described in our study group are similar to those previously reported in the literature. Although the number of SUDEP cases is small, 5 of them were reported after 2003 which might reflect the influence of the educational program implemented at our Department. We believe education is necessary in order to identify SUDEP cases. Patients and family members need to be aware that SUDEP is the most important cause of death related to epilepsy. Its recognition is essential and the first step to determine the incidence of SUDEP in South America. 1 Eugen Trinka, 1 Iris Unterberger, 1 Gerhard Bauer, 1 Jean-Pierre Ndaysaba, 1 Norbert Embacher, 1 Gerhard Luef, 1 Gerald Walser, 1 Klaus Seppi, 1 Judith Dobesberger, and 2 Wilhelm Oberaigner ( 1 Neurology, Universitätsklinik Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Tyrol, Austria ; and 2 Clinical Epidemiology, TILAK, Innsbruck, Tyrol, Austria ) Rationale: To evaluate the overall mortality and cause specific mortality in epilepsy patients in Tyrol, Austria as well as their risk factors. Methods: All pts with definite epilepsy (n = 3334) treated at the seizure clinic Universitätsklinik für Neurologie, Innsbruck, Tyrol, Austria between 1970 and 2000 were included. 1530 of them were incident cases. Diagnosis was based on ILAE classification. Living or dead status was obtained from the Institut für Klinische Epidemiologie, TILAK using a specialized probabilistic record linkage. Pts. were followed until death or end of 2003. A total of 48.595 person-years were analyzed. Standardized mortality rates (SMRs) were calculated by comparisons with those living in the same geographic area in Tyrol. Exact 95% confidene intervals were calcualted by assuming a poisson distribution, using stata? statistical package. Results: We observed 648 deaths compared to expexted 297.4 resulting in a overall SMR 2.2[2.0?2.4] after >30 Years of follow-up. The highest mortality was found in the younger age groups (26?45yrs, SMR 6.8[3.8?11.2]) and in symptomatic epilepsies (3.1[2.3?4.9]) as compared to those with idiopathic (2.7[0.7?7.0]) or cryptogenic etiology (2.2[1.6?3.1]). Elevated SMR after 2 years follow-up were not related to any specific seizure type but was strongly increased in those with persistent seizures as compared to seizure free pts. (SMR 3.3[2.6?4.4] vs. 1.4[0.8?2.3], p < 0.0001). Pts of the cohort 1995?2000 had significantly lower mortality rates than those between 1985?1989 (1.8[1.1?2.9] vs. 4.7[3.3?6.4]). The most common causes of death were cerebrovascular diseases (26%), neoplasms excl. brain tumors (23%) and cardiovascular diseases (15%). The highest cause specific SMR were found for epielpsy (91.6[66.3?123.4]), brain tumors (22,7[15,7?31,8]), and external causes (2,4[1,8?3,3]). Conclusions: The mortality of pts with epilepsy in Tyrol is substantially increased. There is a strong relation to persistent seizure activity and excess mortality possibly amenable to prevention. A reduction of the SMR in the past decade indicats an improved health service in the province. 1 Lori D. Uber-Zak, 1 Matthew T. Hoerth, 2 Takkin Lo, 3 Victor K. Lamin, and 1 Travis E. Losey ( 1 Department of Neurology, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Loma Linda, CA ; 2 Department of Pulmonary/Critical Care, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Loma Linda, CA ; and 3 Department of Nephrology, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Loma Linda, CA ) Rationale: Valproic acid (VPA) can cause hyperammonemia alone or in combination with other agents. Hyperammonemia is associated with EEG abnormalities including triphasic waves, high amplitude delta and generalized spike and wave. Hyperammonemia can also lead to cerebral edema, coma and death. We hypothesized that refractory VPA induced hyperammonemia in the setting of status epilepticus (SE) could be treated with hemodialysis (HD) and would lead to improvements in the EEG. Methods: Two patients in SE treated with pharmacologic coma in addition to standard antiepileptic drugs developed refractory hyperammonemia secondary to VPA. HD was undertaken to lower ammonia (NH3) levels. NH3 levels were measured pre and post HD during continuous EEG monitoring. EEG patterns were analyzed. Other laboratory parameters were measured. Results: Marked improvements in NH3 levels were noted after each round of HD. Additionally, the generalized, periodic triphasic waves seen before HD were replaced by a pattern of diffuse slowing. Permanent resolution of the hyperammonemia and its associated EEG abnormalities came only after discontinuation of the VPA. Conclusions: HD can be an effective method for the treatment of VPA induced hyperammonemia in the setting of SE. Improvements in the EEG findings after HD may help to distinguish triphasic waves secondary to hyperammonemia from other more malignant patterns in SE. 1 Iris Unterberger, 1 Judith Dobesberger, 1 Norbert Embacher, 1 Gerald Walser, 1 Gerhard Luef, 1 Elfriede Karner, 1 Margarete Delazer, 1 Thomas Benke, 2 Martin Ortler, and 1 Eugen Trinka ( 1 Neurology, Medizinische Universität Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria ; and 2 Neurosurgery, Medizinische Universität Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria ) Rationale: Epilepsy often is a chronic disorder with great impact on patients' psychosocial functions. Prevalence of affective symptoms (anxiety and depression) is 20?55%. The aim of our study was to evaluate affective symptoms in patients with medically refractory epilepsy, which underwent the Innsbruck Epilepsysurgery programme. Methods: 102 konsecutive patients were studied. Postoperative seizure outcome was classified by the proposed classification of Wieser (2001). The hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS) was used to identify caseness (possible and probable) of anxiety disorders and depression. Patients were studied preoperatively, 3 mo and 1 yrs postoperatively. Patients were divided into two groups [HADS (0?7; normal), HADS (> = 8; possible/probable). Results: 102 patients (51 f, median age 42 yrs, range (17?71 yrs) were included. 54 and 73 patients showed modest anxiety and depression scores preop (HADS = 0?7) compared to 48 and 29, who exhibited elevated scores (HADS> = 8). There was no korrelation between duration of epilepsy, diagnosis and localisation of epilepsy, age or gender and HADS results. Patients with elevated scores preoperatively improved significantly over time postoperatively (p < 0.001; anxiety and depression), but showed elevated scores overall compared to patients revealing modest scores (p < 0.005). patients with normal scores preoperatively showed improved anxiety scores postop, depressin scores were stabile. There was no significant korrelation between seizure freedom (yes/no) and HADS scores, although seizure free patients showed a trend to perform better. Conclusions: Affective symptoms (anxiety and depression) were found in 30?50% of patients with medically refractory epilepsy. A significant postoperative improvement of anxiety and depression scores was shown. 1 Ralf W. Van Der Sluis, 1 Peter Boardman, and 1 Keijian Tang ( 1 Neurology, New Jersey VA Health Care System, East Orange, NJ ) Rationale: To assess increasing capability of residents by level of training to recognize and treat two distinct and important epilepsy syndromes. Methods: An observational, cross sectional study was performed among the residents of the neurology program of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey at Newark. Two vignettes of a typical case of Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy (JME) and Mesial Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (MTLE) respictively were presented to the residents. A questionnaire was provided to the residents with questions regarding diagnosis, EEG features, treatment and prognosis. The questionnaire was scored by means of a self designed scoring protocol. ANOVA of scores between groups of residents stratified by training year and combined in junior and senior groups was performed, and also versus 2 control groups of Board Certified/Board Eligible (BC/BE) neurologists with and without extra training in EEG/epilepsy. Results: Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness of JME was significantly different between groups. Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness was significantly better in senior (PGY3?4) residents compared to junior (PGY1?2) residents. Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness was not significantly better between residents of all separate training years and neurologists without extra training in epilepsy. Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness was significantly better in neurology attendings with training in epilepsy when compared to residents and neurologists without training in epilepsy. Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness of MTLE was significantly different between groups. Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness was significantly better for PGY4 residents compared to PGY1 residents. Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness was not significantly better between residents and neurologists without extra training in epilepsy. Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness was significantly better in neurology attendings with training in epilepsy when compared to junior and senior residents and neurologists without training in epilepsy. Conclusions: Diagnostic and therapeutic awareness of JME and MTLE remains poor among residents and neurologists without training in epilepsy. Syndromic diagnosis of epilepsy continues to remain suboptimal, with negative repercussions for therapeutic management. Optimal management for patients with epilepsy is with neurologists with special expertise in epilepsy. 1 Lina Wang, 1 Gregory Mathews, and 1 Bassel Abou-Khalil ( 1 Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: Analysis of seizure semiology is an important element of the presurgical evaluation. Hypermotor pattern at seizure onset is traditionally considered characteristic of frontal lobe seizure origin, with only rare reports in temporal lobe epilepsy. After observing several patients with hypermotor seizures and temporal tip lesions, we analyzed seizure manifestations in consecutive patients who had epilepsy surgery and MRI evidence of temporal tip lesions, to evaluate the frequency of hypermotor manifestations in epilepsy with temporal tip lesions. Methods: We systematically reviewed seizure history, imaging findings, EEG-video monitoring data, operative reports, pathology findings, and postoperative outcome in consecutive patients with temporal tip lesions evaluated over the preceding 10 years. We also reviewed recorded seizures for analysis of seizure semiology. Results: Eight patients were found having temporal tip lesions. The age of seizure onset varied from 2 to 35 years (average 18). All patients had intractable complex seizures ranging in frequency from 1?2/day to 1?2/month. In all patients, brain MRI showed anterior temporal tip lesions. These included cavernoma in 2 patients, focal cortical dysplasia in 1 patient, cortical and subcortical white matter gliosis in 3 patients, ganglioglioma in 1 patient, and astrocystic proliferation in 1 patient. Four patients manifested hypermotor seizure semiology. The main features were rapid onset with moaning, barking or squealing vocal sound (2 patients) and vocal expletives (1 patient), followed by repetitive leg movement (bicycling, kicking, flexion-extension or sideway motion) in all 4 patients, repetitive body rocking motion (3 patients), pelvic thrusting (1 patient) and thrashing or flexion and extension of upper extremities (3 patients). The patients with hypermotor seizures also showed automatisms, head turning and unresponsiveness. The other 4 patients had typical manifestations of temporal complex partial seizures: gradual onset with staring, unresponsiveness, oralimentary or limb automatisms, hand posturing and head turning. In the four patients with hypermotor seizures, ictal EEG demonstrated 4?5 Hz theta activity in the anterior temporal region then spread to the inferomesial temporal region, while the other 4 patients had initial rhythmic theta in the inferomesial temporal region. All eight patients underwent epilepsy surgery. Six patients underwent anterior temporal lobectomy with hippocampectomy. One patient received lateral anterior temporal resection. One patient had a resection of cavernous angioma. Six patients remained seizure free since surgery (follow up range 12?36 months). Conclusions: Hypermotor seizures occur frequently in patients with temporal tip lesions. It is not clear if the hypermotor manifestations reflect temporal tip involvement or spread to the frontal lobe through the uncinate fasciculus. A search for temporal tip pathology is recommended for patients with hypermotor seizures and temporal epileptiform discharges. 1 Kevin J. Weatherwax, 1 Ron D. Chervin, 1 Linda Selwa, 1 Rosanna Wedal, and 2 Beth A. Malow ( 1 Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ; and 2 Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN ) Rationale: OSA commonly coexists with epilepsy, and its treatment may improve seizure control and daytime sleepiness. The frequency of OSA in epilepsy may be as high as 33% (Malow et al., Neurology 1997), which is higher than that reported for the general population. The mechanisms whereby OSA exacerbates seizures are unclear. Processes that fragment sleep may facilitate nocturnal (sleep-related) seizures. The purpose of this study was to determine if patients with sleep-related seizures are at higher risk for OSA. Methods: Adult patients with epilepsy completed a survey about their sleep and seizures. The survey included the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and the Sleep Apnea Scale of the Sleep Disorders Questionnaire (SA-SDQ), which has been validated as a screening instrument for OSA in epilepsy patients (Weatherwax et al., Sleep Medicine 2003). Surveys were completed during a visit to the adult neurology clinic or during long-term monitoring in the epilepsy laboratory at the University of Michigan. Patients were divided into two groups: those with sleep-related seizures (SRS) or awake seizures. Sleep-related seizures were defined by subject report that at least half of their seizures occur during sleep. T-tests were used to compare age, body mass index (BMI), ESS, seizure frequency and SA-SDQ scores between the two groups. Logistic regression was used to examine whether the occurrence of SRS was predicted by the frequency of OSA symptoms and by SA-SDQ scores. Significance was set at p < 0.05. Results: The survey was completed by 1256 patients, including 562 men (44.7%) and 694 (55.3%) women (Table 1). Thirty percent of the patients had SRS. Symptoms of OSA that predicted SRS included loud snoring (p = 0.019); witnessed apnea (p = 0.0001); awakening gasping for breath (p = 0.005) and overall SA-SDQ score (p = 0.03). ESS score was not associated with having SRS (p = 0.111). Conclusions: Epilepsy patients at high risk for OSA, as reflected by loud snoring, witnessed apnea and higher SA-SDQ scores are more likely than other patients to have seizures predominantly during sleep. As SRS tend to occur in lighter stages of sleep (Minecan et al., Sleep 2002), pathological events that facilitate arousals with shifting to a lighter sleep stage, such as obstructive apneas, potentially play an important role in exacerbating SRS in patients with epilepsy. Patients with SRS may merit special consideration in screening for obstructive sleep apnea. (Supported by NINDS RO1 NS 042698 (BAM) and NINDS KO2 NS2099 (BAM) and GCRC grant RR00042 (University of Michigan).) Demographics ? Awake ?Seizures Sleep-related ?Seizures ?p value Age (mean years ± SD) 36.9 ± 12.4 37.4 ± 12.9 p = 0.58 BMI (mean ± SD) 27.4 ± 6.9? 27.6 ± 6.2? p = 0.59 ESS score (mean ± SD) ?7.9 ± 5.1? 8.4 ± 5.2 p = 0.11 Seizure frequency/month (mean ± SD) ?9.3 ± 35.9 ?6.2 ± 17.8 p = 0.69 SA-SDQ score (mean ± SD) 24.6 ± 7.5? 26.1 ± 7.9? p = 0.03 1,2 Srinivasa R. Yerra, 1 Christine Kilpatrick, 3 Marienne Hibbert, 3 Caroline Brand, 1 Zelko Matkovic, and 1,2 Terence O'Brien ( 1 Department of Neurology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ; 2 Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ; and 3 Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Around 4% of people experience one or more seizures in their lifetime. Only handful of studies examined the issue of first seizure, which presents unique challenges in terms of definitive diagnosis, prognostication and management. First seizure remains a controversial topic, with different studies reporting differing results because of variations in study inclusion criteria, case ascertainment and sample size. This study presents 6-year experience of a dedicated First Seizure Clinic run by epileptologists. Methods: First Seizure Clinic was established in 1999. Patient were referred from general practitioners in the community and emergency and other departments of our hospital. A prospective database of all attendees to the clinic incorporating demographic, clinical, EEG, and neuroimaging data has been maintained since 2000. The data was comprehensively analyzed to define characteristics and outcomes of attendees to the clinic. Results: Data was available for analysis in a total of 415 patients. People with existing diagnosis of epilepsy were excluded. Events were diagnosed as epileptic seizures in 325 (78%), as non-epileptic events in 58 (14%) and as uncertain in 31(8%). Seizures were thought to be provoked in 79 (24%) and unprovoked in 246 (76%). Follow up data was available on 295 patients (89%) with median follow up of 175 days (25th-75th percentile: 87?707 days) for all attendees to the clinic, and 244 (87?497) for those with epileptic seizure at presentation. Of patients with an unprovoked seizure, 64 (26%) had recurrent seizures. Median number of days to recurrent seizure was 227 (91?489). A lower recurrence rate was seen in patients with provoked seizure, 12 of 79 (15.1%, p = 0.049; Fisher exact test, one tailed). Conclusions: At least a quarter of patients will have further seizures following presentation with first epileptic seizure. Seizure recurrence is less following provoked seizure. The data should provide useful information to the clinicians in counseling such patients. (Srinivasa Raju Yerra is a full time research and clinical fellow in epilepsy with University of Melbourne and his research is supported by Royal Melbourne Hospital Neuroscience foundation, a not for profit research foundation.)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - WONG, D C
AU  - SIDDLE, K J
TI  - After-hours radiology
JO  - Australasian Radiology
VL  - 38
IS  - 4
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-1673.1994.tb00211.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1440-1673.1994.tb00211.x
SP  - 326
EP  - 330
KW  - after-hours
KW  - out-of-hours radiology
KW  - procedures
PY  - 1994
AB  - SUMMARY After-hours radiological procedures are essential but expensive in any major teaching hospital. Using the criteria that radiological procedures performed after-hours should have a reasonable probability of influencing or changing patient management acutely, a study of the justification of after-hours radiological procedures was performed at the Princess Alexandra Hospital. Computer print-outs were used to select the patients based on the dates and times of the procedures. Their charts were then reviewed. The study found that most after-hours radiological procedures were justified. However, it also identified certain procedures that need not be performed or at least could be reduced after-hours. The procedures were: (i) computed tomography (CT) head ? epilepsy, meningitis; (ii) CT abdomen ? trauma (intubated) ? unable to examine abdomen; (iii) CT spine ? obvious unstable fractures; (iv) Ultrasound abdomen ? biliary colic (afebrile); and (v) Ultrasound kidneys ? renal failure (afebrile).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Thomasset, Sarah C.
AU  - Berry, David P.
AU  - Garcea, Giuseppe
AU  - Ong, Seok L.
AU  - Hall, Thomas
AU  - Rees, Yvonne
AU  - Sutton, Christopher D.
AU  - Dennison, Ashley R.
TI  - A simple, safe technique for the drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts
JO  - ANZ Journal of Surgery
VL  - 80
IS  - 9
SN  - 9780470654613
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.2010.05402.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.2010.05402.x
SP  - 609
EP  - 614
KW  - drainage
KW  - management
KW  - outcome
KW  - pseudocyst
KW  - treatment
PY  - 2010
AB  - Abstract Background:? A number of methods are available for the drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts, including percutaneous, endoscopic and open approaches. In Leicester, we developed a combined radiological and endoscopic technique (predating the use of endoscopic/ultrasound) to allow drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts into the stomach. The aim of the study was to evaluate the long-term results of this approach. Methods:? This is a retrospective study of patients undergoing combined endoscopic/ultrasound-guided percutaneous stenting between 1994 and 2007. Data were extracted from case records and our computerised radiology database. Results:? Thirty-seven combined endoscopic/ultrasound-guided procedures were undertaken. Median patient age was 52 years (range 26?84 years). Nineteen pseudocysts were secondary to acute pancreatitis and 18 were in patients with chronic pancreatitis. The diameter of pseudocysts on pre-procedure imaging ranged from 4 to 21?cm (median 11?cm). Median duration of hospital stay was 7 days (range 1?44 days) and 30-day mortality was 0%. Stents were inserted in 70.3% of patients (n= 26). Of those patients stented during the combined procedure, three developed infection of the pseudocyst, necessitating open cystgastrostomy within the first month. During a mean follow-up period of 41 months, two patients developed recurrent pseudocysts which were successfully drained with a further combined procedure (16 and 43 months). Repeat imaging in the remainder of patients failed to show any evidence of a persistent or recurrent pseudocyst beyond 2 months. Conclusion:? Combined radiological and endoscopic drainage is safe, cost-effective and highly efficient in preventing recurrent pseudocyst formation.
ER  - 

AU  - Bansal, Vishal
AU  - Doucet, Jay J.
C7  - pp. 371-383
TI  - Small Intestine, Appendix, and Colorectal
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119317913.ch37
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119317913.ch37
SP  - 371-383
KW  - appendicitis
KW  - carcinoid tumors
KW  - cecal volvulus
KW  - colorectal anastomotic leaks
KW  - gastrointestinal tumors
KW  - rectal trauma
KW  - sigmoid volvulus
KW  - small intestine
PY  - 2010
AB  - Summary This is a unique question-and-answer chapter for surgical residents and trainees, concentrating on the injuries of small intestine, appendix, and colorectal. Carcinoid tumors are rare gastrointestinal tumors, the majority of which are found on the appendix. These tumors may appear as a dense mass on CT imaging, resembling a fecolith, and thus are often found incidentally on pathology when the suspected diagnosis is appendicitis. Cecal volvulus occurs in younger patients who are less-debilitated than those presenting with sigmoid volvulus. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is successful in over 50% of cases of sigmoid volvulus, but decompressive colonoscopy is almost never successful in cecal volvulus. Routine diversion of extraperitoneal rectal injury such as with a loop colostomy is recommended in an attempt to avoid pelvic sepsis. New techniques for using trans-anal endoscopic placement of vacuum assisted closure sponge devices have been described for management of prolonged colorectal anastomotic leaks, but not for acute rectal trauma.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hekal, I. A.
AU  - Mosbah, A.
AU  - El-Bahnasawy, M. S.
AU  - El-Assmy, A.
AU  - Shaaban, A.
TI  - Penile haemodynamic changes in post-radical cystectomy patients
JO  - International Journal of Andrology
VL  - 34
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2605.2009.01045.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2605.2009.01045.x
SP  - 27
EP  - 32
KW  - erectile dysfunction
KW  - penile duplex ultrasound
KW  - penile haemodynamics
KW  - radical cystectomy
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary The aim of this study was to assess the penile vascular changes in post-radical cystectomy patients. A prospective assessment took place between January 2003 and January 2005 of 45 potent men who underwent radical cystectomy and diversion for invasive bladder cancer. Nerve sparing (NS) technique was applied in 21 cases, while others were not subjected to NS (non-nerve sparing group; NNS?=?24 cases). All patients were comparable in preoperative clinical and pathological parameters. A control arm was the preoperative normal indices of the same patients. Preoperative penile duplex ultrasounds (PDU) for all cases were carried out, and then follow-up 2, 6 and 12?months thereafter. On first postoperative visit, none of NS cases showed any arterial insufficiency, while two cases of NNS (8.3%) had peak systolic velocity (PSV)?<?30?cm/sec. Moreover, all cases of both groups showed early increase of end diastolic velocity (EDV)?>?5?cm/sec. In NS cystectomy group, the PSV showed statistically insignificant change [p?>?0.05 (mean: 53.6, cm/sec)]. Shortly after surgery, the EDV values increased, followed by gradually significant improvement (decrease in EDV values) in comparison with control state (mean: 5.9?cm/sec). On the other hand, the NNS cases showed statistically insignificant changes in PSV (mean: 49.3?cm/sec), with deterioration in EDV that did not improve with time, in contrast to NS cases (mean: 13.15?cm/sec). The main significant penile vascular changes were in EDV (venogenic mechanism) in post-cystectomy patients. There was a gradual progressive improvement in venogenic competence mechanism in NS cases with insignificant deterioration of arteriogenic mechanism in both groups (NS/NNS).
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Taft, Rodney
AU  - Chao, Ken
AU  - Dear, Pat
AU  - King, Catriona
TI  - THE ROLE OF CORE BIOPSY IN THE DIAGNOSIS OF MAMMOGRAPHICALLY DETECTED LESIONS
JO  - Australian and New Zealand Journal of Surgery
VL  - 66
IS  - 10
SN  - 9781119317920
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1445-2197.1996.tb00713.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1445-2197.1996.tb00713.x
SP  - 664
EP  - 667
KW  - breast cancer
KW  - core biopsy
KW  - stereotactic
KW  - ultrasound.
PY  - 1996
AB  - Background: Both stereotactic imaging and ultrasound have been used to localize non-palpable breast lesions for core biopsy analysis. In particular, stereotactic core breast biopsy with a dedicated recumbent mammographic unit is an accurate and reliable technique, and this has been substantiated in a number of recent prospective studies comparing percutaneous core biopsy with open excisional biopsy. Methods: This article reviews biopsies of 521 lesions from 502 cases using both stereotactic localization (469 lesions) and ultrasound (33 lesions). The types of breast cancer and benign breast disease diagnosed with core sampling are reviewed. In this series it was not intended to compare all the results of core biopsies with those of open excisional biopsy, but a subset group, which comprised certain benign lesions and malignancies, as well as lesions diagnosed on core biopsy in which the radiology and pathology did not correlate, was further evaluated and compared to the findings with open biopsy. The cases where there were differences in core and excisional biopsy diagnosis are discussed. Results: In this series the benign to malignant ratio was 2.7:1; in other words, 27% of the lesions biopsied were malignant. The sensitivity for detecting cancer was 97% with the positive predictive value being 99%. Conclusions: This series further substantiates the accuracy of core biopsy. It is recommended that certain lesions diagnosed as benign on core biopsy histology should also proceed to open biopsy. Correlation between clinical findings, radiology and pathology further improves the reliability of core biopsy under imaging guidance.
ER  - 

AU  - Guevara, Carlos J.
AU  - Vedantham, Suresh
C7  - pp. 102-113
TI  - The Role of Thrombolysis in the Management of Venous Thromboembolism
SN  - 9781119095576
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119095606.ch13
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119095606.ch13
SP  - 102-113
KW  - catheter-directed thrombolysis
KW  - deep vein thrombosis
KW  - drug dispersion
KW  - post thrombotic syndrome
KW  - pulmonary embolism
KW  - venous thromboembolism
PY  - 1996
AB  - Summary The use of thrombolysis in the treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) began with the use of systemic thrombolytic therapy, but has evolved substantially to include both pharmacological and mechanical methods, of which some are delivered via a small catheter. The goal of catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT) in most patients with extensive lower extremity deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is to remove the thrombus and restore physiological and anatomical venous flow, to decrease the inflammatory changes, increase the likelihood of vessel patency, preserve venous valvular function and, ultimately, limit post thrombotic syndrome (PTS) development. In recent years, the use of ultrasound-accelerated CDT for patients with massive or sub-massive pulmonary embolism (PE) has been studied with somewhat more rigour. With this method, a specialised catheter that emits low-power ultrasound is used to achieve the intra-thrombus drug delivery and to enhance thrombolysis via ostensibly improved drug dispersion.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Edmonds, Michael JR
AU  - Hamilton, Suzanne
AU  - Brichko, Lisa
TI  - Subspecialisation in emergency medicine: A specialty at the crossroads
JO  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
JA  - Emergency Medicine Australasia
VL  - 28
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119095576
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1742-6723.12629
DO  - doi:10.1111/1742-6723.12629
SP  - 462
EP  - 464
PY  - 2016
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chitty, Christopher
AU  - Dessauvagie, Benjamin
AU  - Taylor, Donna
TI  - Giant breast masses: A pictorial essay
JO  - Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Oncology
JA  - J Med Imaging Radiat Oncol
VL  - 63
IS  - 4
SN  - 9781119095576
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/1754-9485.12899
DO  - doi:10.1111/1754-9485.12899
SP  - 467
EP  - 472
KW  - breast
KW  - diagnostic
KW  - giant
KW  - mammography
KW  - ultrasound
PY  - 2019
AB  - Summary In this pictorial essay, we showcase the imaging and pathological findings of a variety of giant breast lesions. Some lesions such as lipomas and hamartomas contain fibrous, glandular and lipomatous tissues and can have characteristic mammographic appearances. Other lesions (e.g. simple cysts, fibroepithelial lesions and some malignancies) may be mammographically indistinguishable and ultrasound (US) may be helpful in further characterisation, for example, by demonstrating posterior enhancement with simple cysts, cystic and solid components in papillary lesions, internal septations on haematomas and abscesses, solid homogeneity or heterogeneity in fibroepithelial lesions and increased vascularity in neoplastic, inflammatory or infective lesions. A diagnostic needle biopsy may be performed in some cases; however, with larger and heterogeneous lesions, there is an increased possibility of diagnostic inaccuracy due to limited sampling, such that full excision of the lesion may be advisable to ensure an accurate diagnosis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Cafici, D.
TI  - Workshops
JO  - Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology
VL  - 16
IS  - s1
SN  - 9781119095576
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1.x
SP  - 5
EP  - 5
PY  - 2000
AB  - The prenatal diagnosis of fetal malformations seems to be a very difficult challenge, mainly for those who are beginning with the practice of ultrasound. As it would be impossible to refer to so many fetal malformations the presentation will cover a few interesting issues. These cases are not frequently diagnosed and in many cases present controversial aspects referred to their prognosis and management. Those topics are: Unilateral ventricular dilatation Fetal hyperechogenic lung lesions Umbilical vein varix Facial clefts Unilateral ventricular dilatation may be a difficult diagnosis and its prognosis is variable Fetal hyperechogenic lesions include a broad range of anomalies with a variable behaviour. Even large lesions can disappear in utero but often the lesion can persist with severe prognosis for the fetus. Varix of the umbilical vein is a relatively uncommon abnormality that carries an increased risk for fetal demise, chromosomal abnormality and hydrops. Facial clefts are a relatively common malformation and the fetal face must be properly scanned in every fetal study. 3D ultrasound helps a lot in the diagnosis of these and other malformations and we'll discuss some examples concerning this new technology.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Dutton, R. P.
TI  - Management of traumatic haemorrhage – the US perspective
JO  - Anaesthesia
JA  - Anaesthesia
VL  - 70
IS  - s1
SN  - 9781119095576
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/anae.12894
DO  - doi:10.1111/anae.12894
SP  - 108
EP  - e38
PY  - 2015
AB  - Summary As compared with European practice, the American approach to resuscitation from traumatic haemorrhage de-emphasises pre-hospital interventions in favour of rapid transport to definitive care; limits initial surgical interventions under the damage control model; uses crystalloid as the initial fluid of choice; and follows an empiric 1:1:1 approach to transfusion with red cells, plasma and platelets in hemodynamically unstable and actively bleeding patients. The use of bedside visco-elastic testing to guide coagulation support is not as widespread as in Europe, while the early administration of tranexamic acid is more selective.
ER  - 

AU  - Ortel, Stephanie
C7  - pp. 295-308
TI  - Physical Rehabilitation and the Veterinary Technician
SN  - 9781118555521
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119421436.ch16
DO  - doi:10.1002/9781119421436.ch16
SP  - 295-308
KW  - pain management
KW  - pain relieving modalities
KW  - physical rehabilitation therapy
KW  - therapeutic exercises
KW  - tissue disuse
KW  - veterinary technician
PY  - 2015
AB  - Summary Physical therapy can be applied to veterinary medicine through physical rehabilitation therapy (PRT). The role of the veterinary technician is essential in PRT practice to help implement a treatment plan and in client education. There are numerous acute and chronic conditions that benefit from PRT. Acute conditions include the postoperative period and trauma. In many chronic pain conditions, there is a vicious cycle of pain, disuse, and atrophy. PRT is used to maintain or increase a patient's functional status and quality of life. Restoring activities of daily living can be accomplished through pain relief using multi-modal analgesia, pain relieving modalities, therapeutic exercise, and home environment modification. It is important to discuss and document goals with the client, ensuring they are realistic for the patient. The modalities discussed include thermotherapy, massage, passive range of motion (PROM), neuromuscular electrical stimulation, transcutaneous electrical stimulation, therapeutic ultrasound, low-level laser therapy, extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT), and magnetic field therapy.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Meerkotter, Debra
AU  - Spiegel, Keren
AU  - Page-Shipp, Liesl Shirley
TI  - Imaging of tuberculosis of the breast: 21 cases and a review of the literature
JO  - Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Oncology
VL  - 55
IS  - 5
SN  - 9781118555521
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1754-9485.2011.02306.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1754-9485.2011.02306.x
SP  - 453
EP  - 460
KW  - breast imaging
KW  - mammography
KW  - ultrasound
PY  - 2011
AB  - Summary This study was conducted to assess the mammographic and sonographic features of tuberculosis (TB) of the breast seen at the Helen Joseph Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa. The study is a retrospective review of patients who presented to the mammography department with breast symptoms subsequently diagnosed as TB or ?highly suspicious for TB?. The search of records extended over a period of 6?years (2002?2008). The search identified 21 patients who met the criteria. Patient characteristics, clinical presentation and radiological features have been analysed. The most common presentation of TB of the breast was an oedematous breast secondary to enlarged unilateral axillary lymph nodes. Only 33% of the patients presented with a palpable breast mass as the primary complaint. The significance of TB associated breast disease lies in recognising the disease entity as it can mimic breast cancer or pyogenic breast abscess.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kos, M.
TI  - WS14-03Fetal extremities – three-dimentional approach
JO  - Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology
VL  - 16
IS  - s1
SN  - 9781118555521
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-87.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-87.x
SP  - 25
EP  - 25
PY  - 2000
AB  - Background To assess particular features of fetal extremities evaluation using three-dimensional ultrasound. Methods Total of 276 patients were selected from our routine outpatient clinic or sent for supervision from other clinics because of a suspected fetal anomaly. Patients were examined during a three year period (Jan1997-Dec1999). Pre-selected patients were examined with standard 2-D ultasonic devices, and their gestation age ranged between 12 and 40?weeks. 3-D ultrasound devices were Combison 530D and Voluson 530D MT (Kretztechnik, Zipf, Austria) with a 3?5?MHz annular array transducer for three dimensional volume scanning. Results In 28/276 patients the initial diagnosis was suspected by 2-D sonography at entry in the study. In 18/28 suspected cases diagnosis was determined after examination by 3-D sonography (15/28 clubfoot, 3/28 other limb anomalies). The diagnosis of clubfoot was confirmed In 17/28 cases after delivery or termination of pregnancy, meaning that 2/18 cases of clubfoot were not detected using ultrasonography. In all of 3 other cases the sonographic diagnoses of hand contractures and micromelia were confirmed after termination of pregnancy. Conclusion 3-D sonography accurately visualized angular and structural limb anomalies. In two cases of severe oligohydramnios we missed clubfoot by 3-D sonography.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - 2010 ASN Abstracts
JO  - Journal of Neuroimaging
VL  - 20
IS  - 1
SN  - 9781118555521
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1552-6569.2009.00451.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1552-6569.2009.00451.x
SP  - 93
EP  - 105
PY  - 2010
AB  - 1.? Vertebral Artery Pseudoaneurysm Presenting as Swishing Noise Jayashree Sundararajan, Manoj Mittal, Saud Khan Kansas University Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas, United States A 48-year-old male with history of gun shot wound to the neck 20 years ago presented with chronic daily headaches, left face numbness, left ear ?swishing ? noise and intermittent dizziess. Examination revealed tongue deviation to the left and decreased sensation on the left facial on light touch and pinprick. Computer tomographic angiography showed left vertebral artery pseudoaneurysm (measuring 18 mm ? 13 mm ? 10 mm) which was located between the C1 vertebral body and skull base. Four vessel ateriogram confirms the same findings. MRI brain was not performed due to the presence of the bullet. It is hypothesized that this large pseudoaneurysm caused thromboembolic phenomena. Extracranial vertebral artery injury and pseudoaneurysm formation is most often due to trauma often penetrating in nature (stabbing, gunshot wound, sharpnel) (1). Symptoms secondary to vertebral artery pseudoaneurysm are variable and result from mass effect or arterial insufficiency. Lower cranial nerve dysfunction can be observed if the pseudoaneurysm is large with intraspinal or intracranial extension or secondary to infarction or ischemia from microembolization or thrombosis of vertebral artery or PICA (1). Sometimes the speudoaneurysms can be safely observed; however spontaneous thrombosis or rupture may occur (2). References: 1. Detwiler K, Godersky JC, Gentry L. Pseudoaneurysm of the extracranial vertebral artery. Journal of Neurosurgery 1987;67(6):935?9394. 2. Schittek A. Pseudoaneurysm of the vertebral artery. Tex Heart Inst J. 1999;26:90?95. 2.? Giant Dolichoectatic Vertebrobasilar System. Clinical Presentation and Endovascular Approach: A Case Report Esteban Cheng-Ching, Lama Chahine, Muhammad S Hussain, Thinesh Sivapatham, Mark Bain, Shaye Moskowitz, Rishi Gupta The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia (VBD) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Disease progression has been linked to increased rates of stroke and death. Unfortunately the treatment options are limited, carrying a significant high risk. We report a case of a patient with a gigantic VBD presenting with clinical worsening, who underwent stent-assisted coil embolization (SACE). Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Patient medical records and imaging studies were reviewed. Results: 54 year old man with history of hypertension, aortic dissection, and known stable VBD, was lost to follow up and presented 2 years later with headaches, progressive diplopia, facial palsy, dysarthria, dysphagia, and ataxia. A brain CT showed a marked interval enlargement of the VBD producing mass effect on the brainstem. Anterior circulation aneurysmal dilatation was also seen. An angiogram showed a diffusely enlarged vertebrobasilar system with partially thrombosed aneurysm. Endovascular reconstruction was performed. Angiographic catheters were advanced to the distal basilar artery, and positioned assisted by an inflated balloon. A stent was deployed across the aneurysmal dilatation in order to recreate a lumen, and coil embolization was performed with near complete occlusion of the aneurysm. After the procedure, the patient remained in the Neurointensive care unit, and he was discharged few days later. Conclusion: VBD can enlarge to significant dimensions, producing compressive symptoms in the brainstem, as well as thrombosis and ischemic strokes. SACE of the dolichoectasia can be effective for the vessel reconstruction, to prevent progression of the dilatation, and other potential clinical events. 3.? Three Case Reports of Multiple Carotid and/or Vertebral Artery Dissections in Female Mei Lu, Heather Gornik, Esteban Cheng Ching, Vikram Kashyap, Rishi Gupta Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, United States Introduction: Multiple carotid and/or vertebral artery dissections are rare. However, patients with multiple dissections can suffer from severe stroke, leading to significant mobility and mortality. The etiology underlying the bilateral carotid dissection is not clear. The effective treatment approaches are not known. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case review of 3 young females with multiple carotid and/or vertebral artery dissections. Results: Three cases of young females presented with spectrum of clinical symptoms ranging from ear pain, neck pain, headaches, ptosis to frank stroke symptoms. Each of them has different possible etiology, from post-partum, possible inflammation with elevated ESR, and genetic disorder Loeys-Dietz syndrome with TGFBR2 mutation. All three patients underwent medical treatment including anti-platelet and/or anticoagulant. In addition, They all had endovascular interventions, including stenting, and/or coiling. Patient's clinical symptoms and signs had been improved post intervention during follow-up visits. Conclusion: Bilateral carotid dissection should be considered even in patient with mild symptoms, such as ear, head and neck pain in young female. Early detection is essential for better outcome. Post-partum, inflammation, and genetic disorders are possible etiology. Extensive genetic workup for connective tissue disorders, such as Loeys-Dietz syndrome is important. Even though different treatment regimen and modality may be needed depending on different etiology. Intravascular interventions may be critical in certain situations despite of different underlying causes. 4.? Choreoathetosis and Personality Change as a Manifestation of Fahr's Syndrome due to Hypocalcemia and of the Pituitary Tumor Adel Olshansky, Nerses Sanossian University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Hypocalcemia can present with neurological symptoms such as choreoathetosis and personality change and can result from hypoparathyroidism, hypermagnesemia, vitamin D deficiency, renal failure, and hyperphosphatemia. Neuroimaging can often reveal extensive cerebral calcification and help to establish this diagnosis and its etiology. We present a case in which neuroimaging helped establish the diagnosis of Fahr's syndrome and pituitary adenoma. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Report Results: A 55 year old Hispanic male presented with 4 months of progressive involuntary movements of the left arm and leg and with 3 weeks of blurry vision. His wife noted worsening irritability and confusion. Neurological examination revealed limited orientation, difficulty with attention, overshooting on saccadic pursuit, bilateral choreoathetoid movements, mildly increased leg tone, and inability to perform coordination tasks on left due to involuntary movements. A non-contrast head CT revealed diffuse symmetrical calcification sparing the cortex and involving the subcortical and cerebellar white matter. Calcium and PTH levels were low at 5.7 and 3.0. Patient improved with intravenous calcium gluconate, and was placed on calcium and vitamin D supplementation. Brain MRI showed suprasellar mass consistent with macroadenoma and prolactin was elevated at 335.9. Bromocriptine therapy was initiated. Conclusion: Neuroimaging is the key to the evaluation of hypocalcemia for diagnosis of Fahr's syndrome. Prompt identification and correction of hypocalcimia led to clinical improvement. 5.? Does a 320 Slice CT Scanner Change our Management in Acute Ischemic Stroke?The Buffalo Experience Bijal Mehta, Ziad Darkhabani, Maxim Mokin, Tareq Kass-Hout, Vladan Radovic SUNY Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, United States Background: The first 320 slice CT scanner was introduced in late 2007. Since then more centers have installed this updated scanner to replace widely used 64 slice scanner. Millard Fillmore Gates Hospital in Buffalo is a JHACO accredited primary stroke center, with 24 hour stroke, neurosurgical, and endovascular care available. Our Toshiba Aquillon 320 slice CT scanner was installed in May 2009. Since that time, almost every acute stroke is scanned using this CT scanner. However, the utility as to whether this scanner has changed our management of acute stroke and specifically which treatment modality used. Acute stroke patients, after initial history, physical exam, and NIHSS calculation, are determined to be eligible to receive IV tPA, IA tPA or interventional procedure candidate, or have an intracerebral hemorrhage and are seen by the neurosurgical team. A CT of the head and CT angiogram of the head and neck vessels are performed on all acute strokes in our facility. A treatment and diagnostic plan is usually decided based on the history, physical exam, the time of onset of the stroke, and findings on the patient's CT scan. Objective: To determine if the numbers of IV tPA cases, IA tPA-interventional procedures, or neurosurgical cases changed in frequency from 2008 to 2009 when only the 64 slice scanner was used versus after installation of the 320 slice CT scanner. Results: A retrospective chart review will be performed on all acute stroke patients presenting to MFG in the 12 months prior and following installation of the 320 slice CT scanner. Information regarding demographic data, stroke severity (NIHSS), which CT scanner used, and CT modalities will be obtained. Patients will be initially separated into two groups: those who had the 64 slice CT scan in the 12 months prior to installation of the 320 scanner, and those who had a 320 slice scan in the 12 months since installation. The numbers of IV tPA, IA tPA-interventional procedures, and neurosurgical hemorrhage cases will be obtained in these two groups. Student t-test and ANOVA will be used to determine if the monthly average number of each case type (i.e. ?no intervention, IV-tPA, IA-tPA or procedural, or hemorrhage? group) varies from those who had the 64 slice CT scans versus the 320 slice CT scans. Conclusion: Does the installation of 320 slice CT scanner increase the numbers of strokes diagnoses and alter the management of such cases? Our conclusions will be presented in the final presentation at the meeting as this is a work in progress and based on the ongoing collection of data as described above. 6.? Vertebral Artery Origin Disease: A Neglected Cause of Posterior Circulation Stroke and TIA Nishant Kumar, Paisith Piriyawat, Salvador Cruz-Flores, Nirav Vora, Aninda Acharya, Eliahu Feen, Jacob Kitchner, Sushant Kale, Randall Edgell Saint Louis University, Saint Louis, MO, United States Background and Purpose: Vertebral Artery Origin Disease (VAOD) is present in 20% of patients with posterior circulation ischemia; in 9% of these patients no other possible etiology will be identified. Given the high incidence of VAOD ands its treatable nature, we performed this investigation into the efficacy of screen for VAOD at Saint Louis University. Methods: All patients admitted to the vascular neurology service at Saint Louis University Hospital between November 2005 and April 2007 were identified using an institutional database. Those patients who had posterior circulation ischemic strokes were included. Patients diagnosed with transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) were included if there were no symptoms or signs of anterior circulation involvement. Patients were said to have been screened for VAOD if they underwent a computed tomographic angiogram (CTA), magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA), or catheter angiogram in which the vertebral artery origins were visualized. VAOD was defined as an occluded or >50% stenosed vertebral artery origin. The screening studies were then reviewed, blinded to the original interpretation. Results: There were 257 patients admitted for ischemic stroke or TIA in the specified period. Of these, 44 (17%) were found to have a posterior circulation stroke or TIA (22 stroke; 22 TIA). The average age of these patients was 63 years and 22 were male. Thirteen (29%; 1 TIA and 12 stroke) patients underwent screening for VAOD. Seven (16%) of these screening studies were interpreted as demonstrating VAOD. When the images of those patients who underwent a screening test were retrospectively reviewed, 3 (7%) additional cases were identified. No patients underwent a revascularization procedure. Conclusions: Despite the high incidence of VAOD in the setting of posterior circulation ischemia in this study (23%), screening was only performed in a minority of patients (13 of 44). When screening was performed, not all cases were identified. These findings highlight the need for more consistent inclusion of vertebral artery origin imaging when searching for the cause of posterior circulation ischemia. This is particularly important with the increasing availability of low risk interventional treatments. 7.? Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome: Case Report and Review of the Literature Michael Lee, Harpreet Johl, Nerses Sanossian University of Southern California, CA, United States Introduction: Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is characterized by a sudden, severe headache at onset, vascular narrowing involving the circle of Willis and its immediate branches, and evidence of vasoconstriction with reversibility within days to weeks of onset. The diversity of classification, pathology, and subspecialties that may encounter RCVS has hampered diagnosis of this recently characterized entity. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 37 year old Caucasian female with a past medical history of migraine and mixed connective tissue disorder presented with a history of maximal onset headache after sexual intercourse. She had been using pseudoephedrine for upper respiratory symptoms at the time. The next day a lumbar puncture showed protein 46 glucose 60, 2 wbc, tube 1 360 RBC tube 4 323 RBC without xanthochromia. Extensive serologies including anticentromere, anti-RNP, ANA, SSA, lupus anticoagulant, complement, DS-DNA, anti-Smith, anti-histone, hepatitis panel, cryoglobulin, HIV and urine toxicology were unremarkable. Results: MRI brain showed evidence of several punctuate non-specific T2/FLAIR hyperintensities in the periventricular white matter. CTA was significant for long segments of narrowing in the anterior and posterior circulations involving bilateral A1 and left A2 segments, bilateral M2 segments, superior cerebellar arteries as well as the right Vertebral artery. No evidence of SAH or an unruptured aneurysm was found. Conclusion: RCVS is an under-recognized cause of headache. It is typified by a young woman with acute, severe headache, a history of migraine, cold medication usage, dynamic improvement of angiographic abnormalities, and can be treated with steroids and calcium channel blockers. 8.? Fatal ICH and SDH Following Intravenous Cerebral Thrombolysis Mohammed Zaman1, Robert Malka1, Karen Wilson2, Reza Behrouz1, Michael Sloan1?1University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States, 2Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, FL, United States Introduction: Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) follows intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) therapy for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) in 1?16% of cases. Combined ICH and subdural hematoma (SDH) has rarely been reported following myocardial infarction but not AIS. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Report Results: We report a 76 year old woman with prior R frontotemporal stroke who presented with right hemisphere AIS, NIHSS 23, and received tPA at 2:10 hrs after symptom onset. At 1 hr, she had improved to NIHSS 11, and was admitted to the NeuroICU for care. At 9.5 hrs after treatment, she became drowsy and was intubated; CT showed a right temporal ICH and SDH. She deteriorated to NIHSS 20; follow-up CT showed enlargement of the ICH (with blood- fluid level) and SDH, with 5 mm right to left shift. The patient received 6 units of cryoprecipitate and 6 units of platelets. She underwent emergent right hemicraniectomy with good operative result. Despite vigorous neurocritical care management, she expired the next day. Conclusion: Combined ICH and SDH may rarely complicate tPA therapy for AIS. Outcome may be poor, similar to ICH and SDH following tPA for acute myocardial infarction. 9.? Delayed Cerebral Edema Following Parenchymal Intracerebral Hemorrhage Robert Malka1, Yamile Vidal1, Karen Wilson2, Reza Behrouz1, Michael Sloan1?1University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States, 2Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, FL, United States Introduction: Parenchymal intracerebral hemorrhage (PIH) is typically accompanied by cerebral edema. Little information exists regarding the occurrence of cerebral edema more than 10 days after PIH onset. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Reports Results: We report two cases of late cerebral edema following PIH. Case 1: A 59 year old woman with prior strokes, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, two prosthetic heart valves on Coumadin therapy developed a 13 cc L frontoparietal PIH with INR 4.5. After reversal of Coumadin, she improved. Between 11?14 days after PIH onset, she worsened; CT showed extensive edema, diffuse L hemisphere sulcal effacement and 5 mm right to left shift. With medical management and treatment for polymicrobial bacteremia, she markedly improved on day 26; CT showed marked reduction in edema. She was transferred to rehab four days later. Case 2: A 48 year old woman with hypertension, diabetes and end stage renal disease on hemodialysis presented with severe aphasia, right hemiparesis and required intubation; GCS = 9T and NIHSS = 20. CT showed a 50 cc L basal ganglia PIH with edema and 5 mm left to right shift. In the NeuroICU, she received Endotool, 3% saline. By day 8, she was extubated, had improved and was transferred to the floor. By day 18, she became drowsy and hypotensive and was transferred to the NeuroICU. CT showed diffuse cerebral edema and 12 mm left to right shift. Despite intubation and 3% saline, she herniated and received left hemicraniectomy. Postoperatively, she developed refractory intracranial hypertension and expired three days later. Conclusion: Late cerebral edema following PIH is uncommon and outcomes may vary. 10.? Hashimoto Encephalopathy with Neuroimaging Findings Mimicking Multiple Sclerosis Lucas Harmon Bradley, Aarti Sarwal, Upinder Dhand University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States Introduction: Hashimoto encephalopathy(HE) has varying clinical presentation with confusion, stroke-like episodes, coma, seizures etc. Diffuse periventricular white matter changes with increased T2 and FLAIR signal on brain MRI are reported in 50% patients. Elevated CSF anti-thyroid peroxidase(TPO) antibody is considered diagnostic, albeit not causally related. We report unique presentation of HE with dementia, relapsing neurological deficits, and MRI findings mimicking multiple sclerosis. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Report Results: 62-year-old male presented with progressive cognitive decline over four years, one episode of left side weakness, fluctuating paresthesias in extremities, urinary incontinence and fatigue. His forgetfulness and difficulty in complex tasks caused loss of job as satellite engineer. He was referred for evaluation of multiple sclerosis. Examination showed no motor, sensory or cranial nerve deficits. Neuropsychological assessment revealed academic ability at 6th grade level with impaired cognitive and executive function. Routine chemistry, B12, folate, TSH, paraneoplastic panel and electroencephalograph were normal. MRI brain showed multiple, non-enhancing, hyperintense, bifrontal subcortical and posterior periventricular areas on T2 and FLAIR images. Serum antinuclear antibody(1:1240) and anti-TPO antibody 153.7(0?3.9 IU/ml) were elevated. CSF examination showed normal chemistry, cytology, myelin basic protein, IgG synthesis rate, no oligoclonal bands. Elevated CSF anti-TPO antibody at 977.6(0?60 IU/ml) confirmed diagnosis of HE. Conclusion: Our patient with chronic dementia, transient neurological deficits and multifocal white matter lesions on brain MRI associated with anti-TPO antibody adds to the expanding clinical and radiological spectrum of demyelinating disease. HE should be considered in differential diagnosis of acute encephalopathy as well as chronic dementia of unobvious cause. 11.? An Unusual Presentation of Cerebral Venous Sinus Thrombosis Adrienne Keener, May Kim University of Southern California/Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Thromboembolic disease is a well-established complication of ulcerative colitis (UC), but cerebral venous sinus thrombosis is an extremely rare occurrence. Methods: A case report of a young female admitted to Los Angeles County Hospital in late June of 2009 with review of the medical literature. Results: A 39 year old right handed Hispanic female with no known past medical history was seen in the emergency department (ED) following new-onset seizures, fever, and stiff neck. Upon interview, she was confused and disoriented with a non-focal neurologic exam. A lumbar puncture was performed which was normal and a non-contrast head computed tomography (HCT) scan showed a right posterior parietal hypodensity with no surrounding edema. She was empirically treated with acyclovir in the ED and admitted to the neurology service. Subsequently, a recent history of rectal bleeding was elicited from the patient one week prior to seizure onset. A colonoscopy with biopsy demonstrating ulcerative colitis was discovered during her admission. Magnetic resonance imaging/magnetic resonance venogram (MRI/MRV) revealed an impressive thrombosis of the right transverse and sigmoid sinuses extending down into the internal jugular vein with a venous infarct of the right posterior temporal lobe. A hypercoagulable work-up was unremarkable. Conclusion: The underlying etiology of venous thromboembolic disease in the setting of ulcerative colitis is poorly understood. The unique presentation of this case emphasizes the need to maintain high clinical suspicion of cerebral venous thrombosis in patients with UC who present with acute neurologic symptoms and signs. 12.? Age and Insulin Resistance are Associated with Periventricular White Matter Hyperintensities in older HIV Seropositive Individuals Aaron McMurtray Pacific Health Research Institute, Honolulu, HI, United States Introduction: Human immunodeficiency virus infection is associated with the development of insulin resistance. This study was conducted to determine the relationship between presence of white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) and insulin resistance in older HIV-seropositive individuals. Patients and Methods: Twenty-six HIV seropositive individuals with age greater than 50 years were prospectively enrolled in the study. Participants underwent general physical and neurological examinations, oral glucose tolerance testing, laboratory blood analysis, and either or both of 3-Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and/or Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging of the brain. Presence of WMHs was determined by visual analysis of T2 and FLAIR weighted images. Voxel-based-morphometry (VBM) was used to compare cortical lobar volumes between groups and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was used to compare cortical metabolism between groups. Results: Presence of WMHs was significantly associated with greater age (p = 0.043), and insulin resistance (p = 0.05). A trend towards greater history of pack-years smoking (p = 0.086) was noted as well. Other demographic and HIV related factors did not significantly differ between the groups. Cortical lobar volumes did not significantly differ between the groups and statistical parametric mapping did not detect any significant differences in cortical metabolism between groups as well. Conclusion: Age and insulin resistance are associated with presence of periventricular WMHs in older individuals living with HIV infection. These findings may be of particular interest to clinicians caring for older HIV seropositive individuals. 13.? Dissociable Left-Right Mammillothalamic Functional Connectivity for Verbal and Nonverbal Memory in Wernicke Encephalopathy Young-Chul Jung Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea, Republic of Introduction: Wernicke's encephalopathy is an acute, neuropsychiatric disorder caused by vitamin B1 deficiency. We aimed to validate the clinical validity of resting-state functional connectivity analysis in a patient who suffered from two independent episodes of Wernicke's encephalopathy during a 20 month follow-up. Patients and Methods: We repeatedly measured the mamillothalamic functional connectivity and memory function three times in a 68 year-old male patient: First, when the patient completely recovered from the first episode of Wernicke's encephalopathy (month 0); Second, when the patient readmitted due to relapse of Wernicke's encephalopathy (month 17); Third, when the patient partially recovered from the second episode of Wernicke's encephalopathy after three months of hospitalization (month 20). Functional images were acquired on 1.5 T GE scanner and were collected by using a gradient echo EPI sequence, while the subject underwent a 5 minute passive-viewing block scan, instructed to fixate on a white crosshair in the center of a black background screen The memory function was evaluated by the Auditory Verbal Learning Test and the Rey Complex Figure Test. Results: The left side mammillothalamic functional connectivity strength paralleled with the verbal memory function. Both demonstrated significant impairment at month 17 and significant restoration at month 20. In contrast, the right side mammillothalamic functional connectivity strength and the nonverbal memory function did not show any accordance during the clinical course. Conclusion: The current findings support the feasibility of mammillothalamic functional connectivity analysis in clinical settings to evaluate treatment response in patients recovering from Wernicke's encephalopathy. 14.? Central Pontine and Extra-Pontine Myelinolysis in a Patient with Prolonged Hyponatermia Due to Oxcarbazepine Treatment Ziad Darkhabani, Bijal Mehta, Tareq Kass-Hout, Maxim Mokin, Cornelia Mihai SUNY Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, United States Background: Central pontine myelinolysis (CPM), also known as osmotic demyelination syndrome, was first described in 1959. The most common etiology involves osmotic changes within the pons and extra-pontine areas while rapidly treating hyponatermia. However, prolonged hyponatremia and fluctuating osmotic forces is also a risk for demyelination. The causes of hyponatermia can vary as well. Case: We report a novel case of a patient with multiple sclerosis who presented with mild bulbar symptoms. She was also found to have chronic hyponatremia related to Oxcarbazepine treatment, which she was taking for pain management. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings were consistent with central pontine myelinolysis (CPM) and extra-pontine myelinolysis (EPM). Subsequent MRI findings showed significant resolution of the CPM/EPM changes on a 3 month follow-up MRI after discontinuing the Oxcarbamazepine and treating the hyponatremia. Discussion: CPM/EPM is a serious side effect secondary to fluctuations in serum sodium levels and chronic hyponatremia. The classical presentation of CPM is ?Locked-in Syndrome,? however severity of symptoms may vary and can be asymptomatic. MRI findings can also vary from minimal T2/FLAIR changes within the pons to larger areas encompassing the entire pons and surrounding extra-pontine structures. Many antiepileptic medications, including Oxcarbazepine, are well known to cause hyponatremia. This case report showed that the Oxcarbazepine-induced hyponatremia may lead to CPM and EPM, as noted on MRI, if sodium levels are not properly monitored and corrected. Conclusion: Oxcarbazepine is an effective antiepileptic and mood stabilizing medication, but proper attention and monitoring is required in order to prevent fluctuations in serum sodium levels. Appropriate caution should be used when treating patients with Oxcarbazepine, especially for off label indications. 15.? Susac's Syndrome: Evolution of MRI Findings Following Treatment with Immune-Modulating Therapy Lama Chahine, Esteban Cheng, Ferdinand Hui, Jinny Tavee Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Susac's Syndrome (SS) is an autoimmune endotheliopathy characterized by the triad of encephalopathy, retinal arteriopathy, and hearing loss, though all three features may not be present at disease onset. We report a case of SS and describe the clinical and MRI changes seen over time with immune-modulating therapy. Patients (or Materials) Methods: The patient's medical record, laboratory tests, and imaging studies were reviewed. Results: A 24-year-old man presented with vertigo, vision loss, dysarthria, and mental status changes. MRI of the brain showed diffuse dural enhancement with multiple T2 and FLAIR hyperintensities in the central corpus callosum (CC), right cerebellar hemisphere, and periventricular white matter perpendicular to the CC. Ophthalmologic evaluation showed multiple retinal arteriolar occlusions. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed evidence of active inflammation with negative cultures and cytology. Although audiologic evaluation was normal, the diagnosis of SS was made based on the characteristic appearance of the corpus callosal lesion, retinal lesions, and clinical findings. After treatment with 2 gm/kg of intravenous (IV) immunoglobulins and IV methylprednisolone, there was marked radiographic and clinical improvement, with the patient returning to near baseline status. Conclusion: Susac's syndrome (SS) typically involves the cerebral, retinal, and inner ear microvasculature. Central CC involvement with sparing of the peripheral and inferior CC are classic features on MRI. Combined with auditory and visual findings, these MRI findings help distinguish SS from multiple sclerosis. The majority of patients have a monophasic course and respond well to immunotherapy, although relapses may occur. 16.? Global vs. Regional Spinal Cord Atrophy in Multiple Sclerosis Ashish Arora, Mohit Neema, Shahamat Tauhid, Daniel Goldberg-Zimring, Brian Healy, James Stankiewicz, Christian Chavarro-Nieto, Namitha Thomas, Antonia Ceccarelli, Elisa Dell?Oglio, Charles Guttmann, Rohit Bakshi 1Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, United States, 2Harvard Medical School, Boston, United States Introduction: Spinal cord damage is common in MS and provides a unique and clinically relevant means to monitor disease progression and therapeutic effects. While regional spinal cord atrophy has been studied extensively in MS, whole spinal cord atrophy has not been previously assessed. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Whole spinal cord 3 mm thick T2-weighted axial fast spin-echo MRI images were obtained at 3 T on 34 patients with MS [EDSS 1.95 ±1.72, range 0?6.5] and 15 normal controls. The global and regional (cervical, thoracic) cord volumes and cross-sectional volume at C2?3 were determined using a semi-automated tool and were normalized by the segment length and intracranial volume. Results: Whole cord, C2?3, cervical and thoracic volumes were lower in progressive vs. relapsing patients or normal controls (all p < 0.05). Spinal cord volumes were not related to spinal cord lesion load but were related to EDSS scores (r ?0.35 to ?0.46; p < 0.05). Only the C2?3 volume correlated with timed 25-foot walk (r -0.40; p < 0.05). The regional and whole cord volumes were all highly inter-correlated (r = 0.83 to 0.98; p < 0.05). Conclusion: The established method of estimating spinal cord atrophy, C2?3 cross-sectional volume, provides a useful surrogate of overall global or regional spinal cord atrophy. Spinal cord atrophy is most common in progressive forms of MS and is related to neurologic disability. 17.? FLAIR Vascular Hyperintensities on Baseline Imaging of a Transplant Candidate Sharmineh Shams, Kai Lin, Nerses Sanossian University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Background: Fluid-Attenuated-Inversion-Recovery Vascular Hyperintensity (FVH) are well described in the setting of acute stroke, but may occur in chronic arterial disease. The presence of FVH may indicate a high risk of stroke, especially in the face of a stressor such as surgery. We describe FVH noted during the pre-surgical evaluation of a renal transplant patient to highlight how this neuro-imaging marker may provide additional information about stroke risk. Methods: Case Report Results: A 40 year old man with multiple vascular risk factors including diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia and previous stroke for preoperative stroke evaluation. He denies any recent episodes of neurological symptoms. The patient was being evaluated for had been on dialysis for many years and was considered having renal transplantation. His neurological examination was significant only for some difficulty with frontal executive function, and sensory polyneuropathy. His brain CT scan showed an old left frontal infarction and extensive calcific atherosclerosis. The MRI of the brain revealed border zone infarctions predominantly in the left side basal ganglia lacunes. FLAIR images revealed extensive FVH in the bilateral insula and fronto-parietal lobes. The MR angiogram of the brain was consistent with cerebral atherosclerosis. Conclusion: FVH are seen in the setting of disordered flow, for example in the setting of leptomeningeal collaterals. They are often transient in acute stroke because of progression to infarction or re-establishment of normal flow patterns. The presence of chronic FVH may be an indicator of severe flow disturbance and high risk of stroke. 18.? Transient Ischemic Attacks in a Young Female with Takayasu's Arteritis Mary Catherine Mayo, May Kim University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Takayasu's arteritis (TA) is a large vessel vasculitis primarily affecting the aorta and its proximal branches and commonly occurring in Asian females aged 15?35 years. The mechanism of stroke and Transient Ischemic Attacks (TIA) in TA is likely due to decreases or shifts in blood flow secondary to steno-occlusive disease and/or thromboembolism exacerbated by hypertension. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: We present a 37 year old Hispanic female with history of TA diagnosed two years prior to presentation with ten episodes of right amarousis fugaux lasting 10?60 seconds as well as one episode of left sided weakness and dysarthria lasting several minutes. She had no residual symptoms after the episodes and her symptoms were consistent with a TIA. She received MR imaging of her brain and neck and was referred to cardiothoracic surgery. Results: MR imaging of the neck demonstrated a complete occlusion of the left subclavian artery and bilateral common carotid arteries. MR imaging of the brain revealed no evidence of acute infarction on diffusion weighted imaging. Blood supply to her brain came from the right vertebral artery and from collateral flow to the left side. Conclusion: This patient underwent surgical replacement of the ascending aorta and aortic valve as well as a carotid bifurcation graft. She has continued treatment with steroids for her TA and is doing well as an outpatient without recurrent TIA symptoms. This patient represents a dramatic case of occlusive disease in TA causing TIA, and demonstrates the benefit of surgical intervention. 19.? Reversible Vasoconstriction in a Migraineur Possibly Triggered by Phentermine Elliot Hogg1, Andres Gonzalez2, Nerses Sanossian2?1Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States, 2Department of Neurology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome (RCVS) is characterized by multi-vessel stenosis/occlusion leading to ischemic stroke. We present a report of a young woman using the appetite suppressant phentermine who was initially misdiagnosed and untreated. The case demonstrates the importance of considering RCVS in the setting of atypical headache, and the role of neuroimaging in prompt diagnosis. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case Report Results: A 33 year old woman migraineur presented with severe atypical headache and right-sided facial numbness. Seven days after discharge she returned to the ER with aphasia and right-sided hemiparesis. A secondary hospital's MRI revealed an acute left anterior cerebral artery (ACA) stroke. LP was unremarkable. She was treated with clopidogrel and Vicodin. After her condition worsened she was anticoagulated. An MRI and catheter angiography demonstrated multi-vessel stenosis and left subclinoid ICA occlusion leading to a diagnosis of vasculitis and treatment with intravenous steroid. She was transferred for tertiary care with a misdiagnosis of Moyamoya disease. On transfer additional history indicated premorbid use of oral contraceptives, sumatriptan, promethazine and phentermine-based diet pills. Treatment was begun in the ICU with a standard vasospasm protocol of hypervolumia with normal saline, and hypertension with dopamine and nimodipine. High dose magnesium oxide was given for its vasodilative effects. Over the next week, cerebral arterial velocities on transcranial Doppler paralleling clinical improvement. Conclusion: An environment of migraine-related vascular hyperreactivity and phentermine use may have predisposed to RCVS. Multimodal neuroimaging, and an absence of vascular risk and inflammation, were keys to diagnosis. 20.? Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor (PNET) of the CNS in a 73 Year Old Man: A Case Report? Remia Paduga, Saud Khan University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, MO, United States Introduction: PNET is primarily a childhood neoplasm, it is histologically similar to medulloblastoma but occur in locations other than the cerebellum. It is very rare, esp in adults. We report a 73 y/o man who presented with PNET. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: The patient has been previously healthy until he developed tremors followed by a rapid decline in his memory and cognition. He became weak in his legs, lost significant weight in a span of three months. He had an extensive imaging study of his neuraxis which showed diffuse meningeal enhancement. Results: He had a tenuous and one month long work-up which includes basic and elaborate rheumatologic, infectious, metabolic, oncologic and toxic investigations. His whole body was imaged for presumed CNS metastases. He had four serial lumbar taps. He had numerous biopsies namely, thyroid, skin (3 sites), meninges and colon (2 sites). His fourth lumbar tap showed malignant cells and biopsies of the sites mentioned above turned out negative except for the meninges. After numerous histopathologic stains and markers of the meninges and review of his images, he was finally diagnosed with PNET of the CNS. Patient and family then decided to pursue palliative care as his prognosis is dim. Conclusion: Since 1987 only 24 cases of CNS PNET in adults have been reported in the literature, 21 supratentorial cases, 2 cases localized in the spinal cord and 1 case in the posterior fossa. These included 12 men and 8 women with age ranged from 7?69. Our patient will be the 25th case and the oldest so far seen. 21.? Superficial Siderosis of the CNS: Clinical and Imaging Features Lama Chahine, Alexander Rae-Grant Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, United States Introduction: Superficial Siderosis (SS) of the CNS is a rare disorder characterized by repeated microhemorrhages into the subarachnoid space with resultant subpial cerebral and spinal hemosiderin deposition. We present a case of SS and discuss the imaging features. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: patient's medical record, laboratory tests, and imaging studies were reviewed. Results: 49 year old male presented with subacute bilateral sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL). MRI showed diffuse hypointense signal along the surface of the inferior aspect of the cerebellum, brain stem, and spinal cord. Lumbar puncture showed xanthochromia. Cerebral and spinal angiograms did not show any source of hemorrhage. 9 years later, he had developed leg stiffness, gait instability, and dysarthria. Physical examination showed decreased auditory acuity, severe dysarthria, normal motor power in the upper extremities, and no antigravity power in the lower extremities with bilateral spasticity. MRI showed thoracic spine cyst that was decompressed. Spasticity, dysarthria, and spastic paraparesis progressed; at last follow-up he is no longer able to ambulate. Conclusion: SS of the CNS is caused by recurrent subarachnoid hemorrhages (SAH) with accumulation of hemosiderin and iron-containing pigments in the leptomeninges, brain surface, brainstem, cerebellum, cranial nerves, and spinal cord. The cause of hemorrhage can not always be identified but in some cases there may be dural pathology or tumors. Classic clinical features include progressive SNHL, cerebellar ataxia, pyramidal signs, ataxia, and headache. MRI findings are pathognomonic and include hypointense signal on the surface of the cerebral hemispheres, brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord. 22.? Selective Motion Perception Deficit Following Cerebellar Stroke Sharmineh Shams, Adrian Burgos, Nerses Sanossian University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Background: Motion perception is inferring the speed and direction of objects based on visual, vestibular and proprioceptive inputs and is mediated by the cerebellum. We present a case where a cerebellar stroke produced motion perception deficits by disrupting visual-motor integration mechanisms involved in perceptual stabilization. Methods: Case report Results: A 42 year-old woman presents with a chief complain of trouble with her vision. She is able to see stationary objects but is not able to recognize them either she is moving or the object is. She is able to track a moving object, such as a finger with her eye, but as she is tracking it, if another moving object comes into her field of vision, she is not able to recognize and identify it. She experienced a subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm about 9 years ago and received endovascular embolization of the PICA aneurysm. Neuroimaging revealed an infarction of the inferior midline cerebellum and an occluded aneurysm without any visualization of flow in the left PICA artery. Her symptoms were present since the embolization, without significant improvement, and had led to severe disability. Conclusions: The cerebellum contains representations for pursuit in the flocculus most likely involved in the coordination of pursuit and in the posterior vermis precise adjustments of the eye movements such as adaptation of pursuit initiation. Defective ocular motor control including the ability to track moving targets and motion direction discrimination can result from midline cerebellar stroke and lead to significant disability. 23.? Higher Prevalence of Silent Lacunes In Stroke Patients With Moderate and Severe Sleep Apnea Mohammed Al-Amoodi1, Wahid Rashidzada2?1University of Missouri, Kansas City, MO, United States, 2Headache and Pain Center, Leawood, KS, United States Introduction: We investigated the relationship between subclinical ischemic lesions and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in a population of patients presenting to the hospital with stroke. We examined the association of OSA with the prevalence of silent lacunar infarction, periventricular hyperintensity (PVH), and cerebrovascular ischemic disease (CVID). Patients (or Materials) and Methods: 65 subjects presented to our hospital with a stroke. Three types of silent lesions were assessed by MRI. OSA was assessed using ResMed ApneaLink. Cross-sectional study was performed on OSA severity and the prevalence of silent cerebrovascular lesions detected by brain MRI. Data were subdivided into 4 levels of OSA severity; None, Mild, Moderate, and Severe based on measured respiratory disturbance index (RDI) values. Data was collapsed into a low RDI (None and Mild) group and a high RDI (Moderate and Severe). Results: Independent samples t-tests revealed that there was a statistically significant difference between low and high RDI patients on mean PVH (p < 0.001), and number of Lacunes (p = 0.001). Chi-square revealed a difference between low and high RDI in the CVID (p < 0.001) with a correlation of r = 0.498 between level of RDI and CVID. Conclusion: Results indicate that stroke patients with moderate to severe OSA (RDI greater or equal to 15/h) have a higher prevalence of silent lacunar infarctions, periventricular hyperintensity and cerebrovascular ischemic disease than stroke patients with less OSA (RDI less than 15/h). 24.? Quantitative Analysis of MRI for Evaluation of Brain Iron Deposition in Alzheimer Disease Yuri Suleimanov1, Sergiy Radchenko2, Vasyl Sava1, Juan Sanchez-Ramos1, Leon Prockop1?1University of South Florida, Tampa, United States, 2National Taras Shevchenko University, Kyiv, Ukraine Introduction: The increased iron deposition in brain associated with shortening of T2 relaxation times on MRI can be used to track the development of AD. Recently, high field MRI was employed (Schenk et al., 2006) as a trustworthy method for iron assessment in brain. However, 3 T MRI is not always available. In our study we offer a novel method based on routine 1.5 T MRI protocols. Patients and Methods: Brain imaging protocols were developed and applied to 42 MCI and AD patients and 20 age-matched controls using 1.5 T MRI. Dual spin echo images with TR = 2.666 sec; TE = 30  FOV = 22 ? 22 cm; matrix 256 ? 256 and slice thickness of 4 mm were acquired on 1.5 T scanner (General Electric, Waukesha, WI). Results: The region of interest (ROI) was the corpus striatum (putamen and globus pallidus). It was segmented on coronal slices and T2-weighted images were computed to generate series of contour lines representing equal T2 values for hypothetical surfaces containing multiple planes. Computer analysis involved the selection of base contour representing identical T2 value in all slices. The iron indices were computed by combining data obtained from sequential slices within ROI. Total iron index was plotted against diagnosis of normal, MCI and AD. One-way ANOVA revealed significant differences (P < 0.05) between three groups. Conclusion: Standard 1.5 T MRI can be used for quantitative determination of iron accumulation in both MCI and AD subjects and may serve as a biomarker of disease progression. 25.? MRI (DWI, T2, Flair Sequences) Findings of an Acute Ischemic Stroke in a 61 Year Old Patient Taken at Least 30 Minutes BEFORE Symptom Onset: A Case Report Remia Paduga, Gary Gronseth University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, MO, United States Introduction: MRI DWI sequence has been reported in the literature to detect ischemic changes in the brain as early as 3?5 minutes of symptom onset. Here we report a case of a 61 year old veteran patient who demonstrated clinical stroke shortly after his MRI was taken. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 61 year old patient with a small cell cancer of the lung was seen with multiple neurological complaints of four month duration that comes and goes consistent with a paraneoplastic process. An MRI of the head was recommended by the neurology consult team performed a day after he received chemotherapeutic agents. His MRI showed acute stroke in the left perirolandic cortical area and posterior MCA distribution in the T2, flair and DWI sequences. After the MRI was taken, patient went to the parking lot to smoke and was seen by family members a few minutes later slumped on the wheelchair with complete right sided weakness and burnt fingers from smoldering cigarette butt. Results: The patient was given IV TPA within 3 hours from the last time he was seen normal and had marked improvement in his dysarthria, facial droop and dense hemiplegia. He had a post ictal CT scan done six days after which showed subtle hypodense areas in the left MCA distribution. His paraneoplastic process turned out to be a Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome which is another rare entity. Conclusion: MRI (DWI, T2, Flair sequences) findings in an ischemic stroke can antedate symptom onset. There has been no case report of similar event in the literature. 26.? A Severe Case of Bilateral Striatopallidodentate Calcinosis, Treated with a Dopamine Agonist ? A Case Report Sara Khan, Jinny Tavee Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Bilateral symmetric striatopallidodentate calcinosis (BSPDC), commonly known as Fahr's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that presents with neuropsychiatric and extrapyramidal symptoms. As there is no known treatment that limits calcium production or deposition in the brain, most therapeutic modalities are aimed at symptomatic relief. We report a case of severe BSPDC which symptomatically responded to Ropinirole. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 36-year-old female presented with progressive slurred speech, gait imbalance, choreoathetosis, blephrospasm, mood lability and cognitive decline. Exam was significant for frontal lobe signs, upper extremity dysmetria, dysarthric speech, ataxic gait, hyperreflexia and choreoathetosis. Results: CT and MRI brain demonstrated diffuse symmetric calcium deposition in bilateral basal ganglia, thalamic, subcortical, cerebellar, and central pontine regions. Extensive metabolic and genetic testing were negative. Wilson's disease, parathyroid, thyroid, calcium metabolism and infectious disorders were also excluded. The patient was treated with Ropinirole, a dopamine agonist, with marked improvement in speech and limb ataxia. Conclusion: Idiopathic BSPD calcification or Fahr's disease is a rare disorder that clinically manifests as a spectrum of movement disorders and seizures. CT remains the most effective screening tool. While varying signal intensities on MRI may correlate with different stages of the disease, it remains unclear whether or not the severity of symptoms corresponds with the degree of calcification. Part of the symptom complex may be attributed to reduced levels of dopamine with in the basal ganglia secondary to calcification. Our patient's symptoms responded to a dopamine agonist, perhaps identifying a class of drugs which can be used for the management of severe Fahr's disease. Much work still needs to be done to define neuroprotective agents to prevent or reverse calcification. 27.? Multimodal Neuroimaging in Pediatric Stroke Extends the Treatment Window: A Case Report Waimei Tai, Nerses Sanossian, Arthur Partikian University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States Multimodal Neuroimaging in Pediatric Stroke Extends the Treatment Window: A Case Report Introduction: Pediatric stroke is rare and difficult to diagnose. Given the devastating neurologic sequelea of ischemic stroke in children, it is important to recognize and treat aggressively. Recent clinical trials in adults have demonstrated efficacy of intravenous TPA up to 4.5 hours after onset and smaller series have described efficacy up to 6 hours using neuroimaging. We report the case of a 13 year-old boy in whom neuroimaging led to use of intravenous TPA five hours after symptom onset. Patient: A 13 year old boy was found down, alert, but unable to speak or move his right side by teachers during a field trip with a last know well time (LKWT) of 09:30. He was helicopter-transported for urgent evaluation by the neurology team at 11:30. Initial exam revealed right homonymous hemianopia, severe dysarthria, expressive aphasia, right hemiplegia and sensory loss with an initial NHISS of 23. Non-contrast head CT was unremarkable and was followed by urgent MRI/A with perfusion-weighted imaging. MR demonstrated diffusion-perfusion mismatch of >50% and lack of flow signal in the left intracranial carotid on MRA. The decision for treatment with IV TPA was made and a 0.9 mg/kg dose was administered at 4.75 hours after LKWT. Repeat head CT in 24 hours showed no hemorrhage and patient's NIHSS was 12. During hospitalization he was found to have a hypercoagulable condition and he continued to improve to an NIHSS of 7. Conclusion: Multimodal neuroimaging can help diagnose and treat pediatric stroke outside of previously established time windows. 28.? Retrospective Case Series of Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy: Typical and Atypical Etiologies and Neuroimaging Features Vikram Penumalli, Kelly Blend, Kristen Gruenther, Patrick Capone Winchester Neuroimaging, Virginia Commonwealth University, Winchester, VA, United States Introduction: Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) is a clinical and neuroimaging diagnosis that is commonly seen in the setting of uncontrolled hypertension, ecclampsia, renal failure or immunosuppressive therapy. We present a case series of patients diagnosed with RPLS at a tertiary care hospital and review the clinical presentation, medical comorbidities and neuroimaging findings of these patients. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: 16 patients with RPLS were collected retrospectively over the past 9 years. Hospital charts and neuroimaging findings were reviewed. Results: We identified 16 patients with RPLS (14 females and 2 males) with a mean age of 43.6 years (range 20 ? 67 years). Associated medical conditions included 3 patients undergoing narcotic withdrawal which to our knowledge has not been described, 1 patient with Guillain-Barre syndrome, and previous well characterized etiologies such as ecclampsia, renal insufficiency, hypertensive emergency, and immunosuppressive agents. Atypical neuroimaging features included hemorrhage, cortical lesions, and frontal lobe edema. Conclusion: RPLS is a heterogenous clinical and neuroimaging diagnosis that can be seen with a variety of medical comorbidities leading to a failure of cerebral autoregulation and resulting in variable patterns of cerebral edema. Recognition of the spectrum of associated medical comorbidities and neuroimaging findings is the key to making this diagnosis which usually has a favourable prognosis. 29.? A Case of Familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease Presenting as an Acute Ischemic Stroke Esteban Cheng-Ching, Sara Khan, Muhammad S. Hussain, Jinny Tavee The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) is a fatal condition characterized by a rapidly progressive dementia and neurological decline. We report a case of familial CJD presenting with stroke-like episodes and preserved cognition that manifested as evolving areas of restricted diffusion on serial MRI studies. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: We reviewed the patient's medical record, laboratory tests and imaging studies. Results: 60-year-old woman presented with sudden onset of right upper extremity weakness. On examination, she had focal proximal weakness, increased tone, and brisk reflexes in her right arm. The first MRI demonstrated restricted diffusion in the left caudate. A month later, the patient developed acute right leg weakness. Followup MRI showed restricted diffusion in the left medial frontal and frontoparietal cortex suggestive of embolic infarcts, although the ADC map showed no abnormality. This prompted a CSF analysis, which demonstrated a positive 14?3-3 protein. One month later, the patient developed quadriparesis and diffuse myoclonic jerks with intact cognition. She expired shortly afterwards. Autopsy confirmed spongiform changes of the brain. It was later discovered that her father had also died of autopsy-confirmed CJD although he had presented with dementia. Conclusion: Familial CJD is typically characterized by a rapidly progressive encephalopathy of earlier onset and more protracted clinical course than sporadic CJD. Although stroke-like progression has occasionally been seen with the sporadic variant, it has never been described in familial CJD. This case is the first description of familial CJD presenting as multiple stroke-like episodes. 30.? Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Corticothalamic Connectivity in a Case of Focal Status Epilepticus Vikram Penumalli, Radoslav Raychev, M. Kelly Nicholas, Fernando Goldenberg, James Tao Department of Neurology, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, IL, United States Introduction: Transient periictal neuroimaging findings such as cortical edema and gyriform enhancement in the setting of status epilepticus have been well described and are thought to be the result of neurovascular coupling, hyperperfusion and glutamate excitotoxicity involving predominantly cortical structures. In this case of focal status epilepticus, a less common pattern of restricted diffusion in the thalamus as well as the cortical ribbon is described and highlights the role of corticothalamic pathways in focal seizure disorders. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case presentation of a 68 year old female with focal status epilepticus treated in a neurointensive care unit. Results: A 68 year old female had an unwitnessed fall at home and was found to have a left hip fracture. During her emergency room evaluation, her exam showed left gaze preference and left upper extremity weakness. The neurology consult team witnessed a focal seizure involving forced left gaze deviation and left sided myoclonus. EEG revealed focal electrographic status epilepticus involving the right posterior quadrant. MRI demonstrated areas of restricted diffusion involving the right temporo-occipital cortex and right posterior thalamus that mimicked a right posterior cerebral artery infarction. Lumbar puncture revealed concomitant non-herpetic viral meningitis. After treatment of focal status epilepticus, the patient had follow-up neuroimaging which demonstrated near complete resolution of the lesions, suggesting that these were the result of excessive seizure activity rather than the cause of it. Conclusions: 1. The pattern of transient cortical and subcortical lesions seen in this case demonstrates that corticothalamic pathways may be involved in reinforcement and propagation in focal seizure disorders. 2. Periictal neuroimaging in the setting of status epilepticus may reveal a variety of transient lesions that may mimic stroke, tumor or infection. Accurate differentiation of these entities is important when attempting to predict a patient's neurological prognosis. 1 [ Anatomic MRI (A however, the difference was not statistically significant. Restricted diffusion was detected in 10 lesions from progression group but only in one lesion from non-progression group. Conclusion: Diffusion and perfusion MR enable non-invasive differentiation of tumor progression from treatment-induced changes in most cases with high accuracy. Restricted diffusion is highly specific for recurrent tumor. MRS was found not to contribute significantly to overall diagnostic accuracy due to frequent overlap of metabolite ratios, which is likely to be due to inherent heterogeneity of these lesions. 37.? Cryptococcosis of the CNS Presenting with Disseminated White Matter Lesions Daniel Ontaneda, Steven Shook Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, United States Introduction: Cryptococcus neoformans is an encapsulated yeast that produces a picture of meningo-encephalitis, most commonly seen in immunosupressed patients. Typical MRI imaging findings in Cryptococcal meningo-encephalitis include mass lesions, pseudo cysts, radiologic meningitis, and hydrocephalus. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: 69 year old male with PMH significant for oral candidiasis, GE leiomyoma, prostate cancer, and hypertension presented to the clinic with a 6 month history of progressive gait dysfunction and lower extremity weakness. Neurological examination showed paraparesis, dysmetria in the upper and lower extremities. Gait was markedly ataxic. Results: MRI of the brain showed confluent T2 hyperintensities involving bilateral sub cortical structures, thalamus, midbrain, and pons. These lesions were hypointesne on T1 imaging. CSF examination showed 19 WBC and 18 RBC, protein was 496 and glucose was 10. Fungal culture grew Cryptococcus neoformans, latex agglutination for Cryptococcus was also positive. HIV serology was negative. CD4 count was 94. All other CSF studies were normal. Conclusion: Our case illustrates a unique presentation of Cryptococcal meningo-encephalitis in a patient with idiopathic CD4 lymphocytopenia. Diffuse white matter lesions are rare in this entity. Demyelination has been proposed as the pathological basis of these changes. It is felt that cryptococcal infections may produce a radiological picture similar to ADEM. Leukoencephalopathy should be considered along with the more classic imaging features of Cryptococcosis such as cryptococcomas, hydrocephalus, and meningeal enhancement in CNS. 38.? Multiple Subarachnoid Abscesses due to Group B Streptococcal Meningitis Andrea Synowiec, Sandeep Rana Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, United States Introduction: We present a case of Group B Streptococcus (GBS) meningitis in an elderly male with rare imaging findings of multiple subarachnoid abscesses. Case Presentation: A 70-year-old Caucasian male with a history of well-controlled diabetes and hypertension presented to the emergency department after acute onset of diaphoresis, flu-like symptoms, fever, and rapid decline in mentation. He had no history of recent infections or travel. MRI was performed at admission and again one week later. Results: Initial MRI revealed a widened CSF space at the vertex in the frontal and parietal regions, with a diffusely septated appearance of the subarachnoid space containing fluid/fluid levels within a few of the loculations. There was notable opacification of the mastoid air cells bilaterally. Lumbar puncture revealed 750 WBC, glucose of 56 mg/dL, and protein of 856 mg/dL. Group B Streptococcus antigen was positive in the CSF. CSF gram stain revealed few gram-positive cocci, although blood and CSF cultures showed no growth. The patient was initially treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics. A second MRI revealed increased debris in the subarachnoid loculations, consistent with multiple subarachnoid abscesses. Gadolinium was not administered due to renal insufficiency. Conclusion: GBS is a frequent cause of meningitis in neonates, and less commonly can cause meningitis in peri-partum women and immunosuppressed adults. We present the unusual imaging finding of multiple subarachnoid abscesses due to GBS meningitis in a diabetic elderly male. 39.? Radiographic Characteristics of a Case of Collision Tumor Comprised of Primary B-cell CNS Lymphoma and Anaplastic Astrocytoma Lara Kunschner, Frank Pu, Robert Williams Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, United States Introduction: The juxtaposition of dural-based tumor and malignant glioma has been infrequently reported. Occasional metastatic rests of systemic malignancies have been identified within primary brain tumors, the so-called collision tumor. Much less common, though, is the collision of 2 primary central nervous system malignancies, of which only one is gliomatous in origin. The exception, of course, is the co-occurrence of glioblastoma and sarcoma. Trivial numbers of non-malignant inflammatory cells within a glioma is fairly common. We present a case of a collision tumor consisting of primary B-cell CNS lymphoma and anaplastic astrocytoma. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A healthy, 29 yo man presented with a generalized seizure. Initial evaluation revealed a complex, left parietal mass on brain CT and MRI. The tumor was a collision tumor due to meeting diagnostic criteria for both primary B-cell CNS lymphoma and Anaplastic astrocytoma within the solitary tumor. Results: The tumor had heterogeneous characteristics pre-contrast, enhanced post-contrast, and involved both grey and white matter. No dural thickening or enhancement was noted. The radiographic and pathological images are presented. Radiographic findings from recent cases of malignant glioma in juxtaposition with dural?based malignancy are also presented, as well as typical MRI findings in both primary lymphoma and AA as isolated tumor. Conclusion: Central nervous system collision tumors are rare entities, especially when comprised of 2 primary brain malignancies. The presence of an identifiable tissue plane is helpful in the radiographic diagnosis, but overlapping characteristics make radiographic diagnosis very difficult. 40.? MECP2 Duplication Associated with Dysgenesis of the Corpus Callosum Ngoc Minh Le, Manikum Moodley Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States Introduction: Mutations in methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) on chromosome Xq28 is a well known cause for classical Rett syndrome, an X-linked dominant developmental disorder, predominantly seen in females. Mutations may also cause a more severe neurodevelopmental phenotype in rare surviving males. MECP2 duplication causes a different phenotype which includes severe mental retardation, hypotonia, recurrent respiratory infections, and clinical features of Rett syndrome. There have been no reports in the literature of brain abnormalities on MRI in Rett syndrome, except for diffuse atrophy as measured by volumetric studies. One prior case report has associated MECP2 duplication with periventricular nodular heterotopia. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 5 year old boy with severe global developmental delay since 9 months of age presented mild hypotonia, stereotypies, optic atrophy, plagiocephaly, and hypertelorism. He was adopted at birth. Results: At 1 year of age, chromosome karyotype was normal (46XY) and brain MRI showed dysgenesis of the corpus callosum (absence of rostrum and markedly thinned genu body and splenium) with repeat MRI 2 years later showing additional diffuse white matter volume loss. Chromosomal microarray (CMA) revealed chromosome Xq28 duplication of 877 Kb in size which contains the region for MECP2. Conclusion: Unlike Rett syndrome, MECP2 duplications can be associated with brain malformations, including malformations of cortical development and midline defects. Therefore in patients with developmental delay without clear etiology, CMA may provide a definitive diagnosis and in those with MECP2 duplications, brain MRI may reveal associated intracranial abnormalities. 41.? MRI Findings of an Unusual Case of Hemorrhagic Primary CNS T-cell Lymphoma ? A Case Report Daniel Thielemann, Jon Brillman, Sandeep Rana Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States Introduction: We present MR findings of malignant primary CNS T-cell lymphoma. Case Presentation: A 42 year old Kuwaiti female with no significant past medical history presented to an outside hospital with a chronic history of headache, altered mental status, and dizziness. Results: Based on original MRI and CSF findings she was initially treated for encephalitis. She returned one month later with worsening symptoms and new-onset generalized seizures. Repeat MRI scanning demonstrated interval increase in lesion burden and hemorrhagic changes throughout, at which point she underwent treatment with intravenous steroids for presumed cerebral vasculitis. The patient worsened, and follow-up MRI demonstrated multiple focal supratentorial hemorrhagic lesions with surrounding vasogenic edema, diffuse areas of restricted diffusion, and subfalcine herniation. MRA demonstrated widespread irregularities of the intracranial vasculature. The patient underwent brain biopsy which revealed the diagnosis as malignant primary CNS T-cell lymphoma with extensive hemorrhage and necrosis. HIV antibody type 1 and 2 were negative. She underwent left-sided decompressive hemicraniectomy for amelioration of increasing intracranial pressure and was treated with intravenous steroids. Ultimately, she succumbed to her illness. Conclusion: Primary CNS T-cell lymphoma is an extremely rare disorder with an incidence of 3.6?8.5% of lymphomas and has a poor prognosis. We present unusual MR imaging of primary CNS T-cell lymphoma with hemorrhagic changes in an HIV negative patient. 42.? Midbrain Stroke Causing Pupil Sparing Oculomotor Nerve Palsy in Patient with Diabetes Parastou Shilian, Adel Olshansky, Nerses Sanossian, Said Beydoun USC, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Pupil sparing oculomotor nerve palsy (PSOMNP) in patients with diabetes is commonly due to ischemic neuropathy in the subarachnoid space. Evaluation of PSOMNP often relies on clinical symptoms/signs and often does not utilize brain MRI. We present a case of PSOMNP secondary to brainstem infarct. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Case report and neuroimaging Results: 72 year old woman with diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure, hypertension, and aortic valve stenosis developed left ptosis and diplopia after aortic valve replacement surgery. Her post-operative course was complicated by one episode of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. Patient was started on anticoagulation. Neurological examination revealed complete ptosis of the left eye that was depressed and abducted on primary gaze. Patient was unable to cross midline on adduction or elevate her left eye. Pupils were symmetrically reactive. MRI of the brain demonstrated DWI hyperintensity in the area of left paramedian midbrain consistent with acute infarct. Conclusion: Both diabetic ischemic mononeuropathy and stroke can lead to PSOMNP. Most cases of diabetic patients with PSOMNP are not evaluated with appropriate neuroimaging and may, in fact represent ischemic stroke. This case demonstrates the importance of considering ischemic midbrain infarction in the differential diagnosis of PSOMNP and obtaining appropriate neuroimaging. 43.??Hot Cross Bun? Sign and Other Neuro-imaging Findings in a Patient with Multisystem Atrophy: Case Report Arash Taavoni, Jon Brillman, Sandeep Rana Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, United States Introduction: Multisystem atrophy (MSA) consists of a group of disorders characterized by neuronal degeneration mainly in the substantia nigra, striatum and cerebellum. Although MSA is distinct from Parkinson's disease it shares many aspects, such as tremors, cogwheel rigidity, bradykinesia, ataxia and autonomic findings. Our case report underscores the importance of neuro-imaging in diagnosing MSA. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: 57 year-old, female, past medical history of hypertension, diabetic neuropathy, status post gastric feeding tube, and a three year history of progressive lower extremity ?weakness? to the point of being wheelchair bound. She had severe cognitive impairment and could not care for herself. Patient presented to the hospital with fever and diarrhea. On physical exam the patient was orient only to self and place. Positive Cogwheel rigidity and orthostatic hypotension. Mild resting tremor. Results: MRI demonstrated a very prominent ?hot cross bun? sign in which there is a cruciform linear area of high signal on T2WI in the pons with tiny round darker areas within the checkerboard of the cross. Atrophy of the cerebellum and pons is also seen. Conclusion: In our case report, we describes a patient whose MRI findings demonstrate recently described finding of ?hot cross bun? sign in MSA. This finding is highly specific to this disorder. Although neuro-imaging is not necessary to make the diagnosis of MSA, MRI findings can be crucial to making the correct diagnosis. 44.? DWI-Negative Stroke and Pure Hypoperfusion: An Imaging Indication for Hemodynamic Therapies? Sarah Song, Ichiro Yuki, Satoshi Tateshima, Doojin Kim, David S. Liebeskind UCLA Stroke Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States Introduction: Acute stroke therapy focuses solely on arterial recanalization, yet reversal of hypoperfusion is the ultimate therapeutic goal. Although the underlying stroke etiology is rarely established in the acute phase, compromised hemodynamic status and risk of evolving infarction may be dissimilar in progressive stenosis compared with thromboembolic occlusion. Imaging of collateral perfusion and infarct patterns may provide clues for optimal treatment in a given patient. Methods: Case report. Results: A 68-year-old woman with diabetes presented with acute expressive aphasia, right facial paresis and right hemiparesis (NIHSS 12). CT confirmed no hemorrhage, and the patient received intravenous tPA. Repeat exam 6 hours after onset showed improvement in strength but persistent aphasia (NIHSS 7). MRI revealed no DWI hyperintensity but extensive areas of perfusion delays in the left MCA territory. MRA showed severe flow attenuation of the left M1 and distal branches. Angiography revealed elongated stenosis of the left M1. Collateral flow was supplied via leptomeningeal anastomses from ipsilateral ACA and PCA, leaving a vulnerable area in the left frontal operculum consistent with localization of her aphasia. Treatment with IV fluids and permissive blood pressures were initiated and the patient was normal within days. Serial multimodal MRI revealed no subsequent DWI lesion despite persistent perfusion delays. Conclusion: DWI-negative stroke and pure hypoperfusion may be a marker of transient failure in established collaterals. Stroke and neurological deficits may result from pure hypoperfusion. Multiparametric characterization of collateral perfusion may chronicle restoration of cerebral blood volume and neurological improvement despite persistent delays in perfusion. 45.? Superior Sagittal Sinus Thrombosis ? Imaging Pitfalls Marcella A. Wozniak3, Sandra Ruby1, Alexander Mark2?1University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States, 2University of Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, United States, 3Baltimore VHA Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, United States Introduction: Patients with superior sagittal sinus (SSS) thrombosis (SSST) can present with cerebral venous infarction, intracerebral hemorrhage, headache or increased intracranial pressure. Methods: Three clinical cases. Results: 1. 53 yo woman on hormone replacement complained of headache then developed left weakness and left visual field loss. Head CAT revealed a region of hypodensity in right parieto-occipital region with hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance (MR) venography (MRV) sagittal time of flight sequences suggested partially occlusive SSST, but phase contrast sequences revealed a patent SSS. 2. 38 yo woman with prior DVT and migraines had refractory headache and opening pressure of 34 on lumbar puncture. Head MR suggested increased signal on T1 sequences in the entire SSS. MRV was initially reviewed as ?flow? in SSS. Review of T1 sequences revealed subacute thrombus in the entire SSS resulted in increased signal that mimicked the ?flow? on the MRV. 3. 34 yo morbidly obese woman presented with the sudden onset of left hemiparesis, normal head CAT and received IV tPA. Her weakness resolved. Repeat head CAT and CAT angiogram were normal. She had a focal then generalized seizure beginning in the left arm. A diagnosis of ?transient tumor attack? was considered. A head CAT with contrast revealed a new area of hypodensity in right frontal lobe and decreased enhancement in the SSS. Conclusion: MRV and CAT venography can facilitate the diagnosis of SSS thrombosis. Correlation of imaging with clinical presentation and careful review of all available imaging is needed when assessing patients for SSS thrombosis. 46.? Combined Lateral Pontine and Extrapontine Myelinolysis Ehsan Malek, Alireza Negahban, Jamshid Ahmadi University of Southern California, Keck School of Medicine, Radiology Department, Lose Angles, CA, United States Objective: To illustrate detailed MR imaging of extensive myelinolysis associated with rapid correction of severe hypernatremia. Findings: After three weeks binge drinking, a 40 year old alcoholic man admitted in stupor with a serum sodium level of 190 mmol/L. He progressed to coma with flaccid quadriplegia following correction of serum sodium to 155 mmol/L over 3 days. MRI showed extensive bilateral involvement of the ventrolateral aspect of the rostral pons with sparing of the central pons and pyramidal tract. The lesions were hypointense on T1, and hyperintense on T2. These MR findings show a butterfly appearance of the pons. The extrapontine lesions were in globus pallidi, putamen, claustri, thalmai and hypothalami. Repeat MRI four weeks later showed slight improvement. Three months later MRI shows development of minimal atrophy in the involved areas of pons and deep brain tissue. Conclusion: The MRI findings correlate closely with a postmortem neuropathologic description of a single previous case report in 1989 without MRI. 47.? Bilateral Sturge-Weber Syndrome Georg Evers, Tobias Loddenkemper Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, United States Introduction: Sturge-Weber-syndrome (SWS) is a sporadic congenital neurocutaneous syndrome presenting with unilateral facial vascular nevus and ipsilateral leptomeningeal angiomatosis. We present an infant boy with bilateral facial nevus, bilateral cerebral leptomeningeal enhancement, and calcifications. Methods: Case study including history, MRI, CT and EEG-data. Results: This infant boy presented at birth with a bilateral facial vascular malformation extending also over parts of the trunk and extremities. Exam revealed spastic quadriparesis. Seizures occurred on day of life three. Brain MRI at one month of age showed diffuse leptomeningeal enhancement over both cerebral hemispheres, enhancing bilateral ischemic white matter changes as well as atrophy. Bifrontal white matter calcifications were confirmed on subsequent head-CT at 2 month of age. EEG showed asymmetry of the background and sleep structures with higher amplitudes on the right and bilateral posterior spikes. EEG-seizures arose independently from both hemispheres. Clinical seizures consisted of left clonic, tonic, and eye versive seizures. Follow up MRI scan at 3 month of age revealed progressive bilateral atrophy of both cerebral hemispheres, worsening ischemic white matter changes, and increasing calcifications. Seizures remained refractory to treatment with phenobarbital, phenytoin, topiramate, clonazepam and levetiracetam. Conclusion: The case illustrates a rare bilateral manifestation of SWS. Bilateral SWS may represent an extreme variant of the SWS-spectrum or even a separate syndrome. Calcifications and meningeal angiomatosis are typical features of SWS but bilateral calcifications are rarely seen. Additionally, calcifications are unusual under one year of age. Hemispherectomy is usually not a treatment option in patients with severe bilateral SWS. 48.? Orbital Apex Syndrome: A Rare Case of Perineural Invasion of Skin Cancer Sara Khan, Charles Bae Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, United States Introduction: Perineural invasion and orbital extension is a rare manifestation of skin cancer. Initial neuroimaging is often negative which can delay diagnosis. We present a case of this rare condition, with an emphasis on the clinical presentation and neuroimaging findings. Patient and Methods: A 57 year old man presented with progressive symptoms over 3 months. He initially noticed right forehead numbness followed by double vision. He quickly developed a complete right ptosis. He also had a severe right-sided headache and ocular pain. Past medical history was significant for Squamous cell carcinoma of his forehead (had resection four years prior) without recurrence. Neurological exam was normal except for right ptosis, fixed and dilated right pupil, complete right opthalmoplegia and numbness in the right V1 distribution. Results: A brain MRI performed two months after symptom onset was normal. Cerebrospinal fluid was normal. Brain MRI a month later was still normal. However, a dedicated orbit MRI demonstrated an enhancing right orbital apex mass which involved the right cavernous sinus and superior oblique muscle. Open biopsy of the mass revealed a poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma with perineural invasion. Conclusion: Orbital apex syndrome resulting from perineural spread of squamous cell carcinoma often presents in the setting of a previously treated head or neck skin cancer. The diagnosis can be missed without local recurrence of the skin cancer. It can be confused with other conditions (e.g. trigeminal neuralgia, herpes zoster). Imaging may not pick up an abnormality until macroscopic disease develops in the orbit. 49.? Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome Due to Ephedrine After Elective Cesarean Section Qing Hao, Matthew Tenser, Radoslav Raychev, David Liebeskind UCLA Stroke Center, Los Angeles, United States Introduction: Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) manifests neuroimaging findings similar to hypertensive encephalopathy and eclampsia, including predominantly bilateral subcortical lesions and angiographic features of vasoconstriction. Sympathomimetic agents related to ephedrine may cause vasoconstriction, yet RPLS due to ephedrine has not been described. Patients and Methods: Case report. Results: A 31- year-old woman with no past medical history suddenly developed right upper quadrant visual deficit, short-term memory loss and dull headache associated with nausea, vomiting and photophobia at 24 hours after elective cesarean section. She was not hypertensive or eclamptic, but received ephedrine to avoid hypotension after spinal anesthesia. Her symptoms lasted only 40 minutes, yet MRI on the next day revealed DWI and FLAIR hyperintensity in the left posterior temporo-occipital lobe. MRA was unrevealing. Two months later, follow-up MRI showed complete resolution of the previously noted abnormality. She remained asymptomatic without neurological sequelae. Conclusion: RPLS and transient neurological deficits lasting only minutes in duration may occur shortly after ephedrine use. RPLS due to ephedrine for potential hypotension after cesarean section should be recognized as a potential complication. Subtle vasoconstrictive effects of ephedrine may not be apparent on MRA. Overlap with postpartum angiopathy or reversible cerebral vasoconstrictive syndrome, however, suggests a common vascular pathophysiology that may be discerned with serial MRI. 50.? Evolution of FLAIR Vascular Hyperintensities in Acute Ischemic Stroke Nerses Sanossian1, Qing Hao2, David Liebeskind for the UCLA Collateral Inversigators2?1University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States, 2University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, United States Background: FLAIR vascular hyperintensities (FVH), the relatively subtle serpentine early vessel signs in acute ischemic stroke, are caused by slow retrograde flow from leptomeningeal collaterals. Angiographic correlative studies reveal that FVH are highly specific for collaterals and hypoperfusion, changes in FVH associated with revascularization have not been chronicled. Methods: Retrospective review was conducted of consecutive acute ischemic stroke cases at a single institution with serial FLAIR MRI acquired before and after conventional angiography. FVH characteristics on serial MRI were reviewed in blinded fashion. Angiographic patency and perfusion status was separately graded by TIMI score. Results: 632 stroke cases were reviewed to identify 55 with FLAIR prior to and after angiography. Initial MRI revealed FVH in 46/55 or 84% of cases. FVH was noted on only 18/55 or 33% of follow-up MRI scans. In all cases with FVH on follow-up MRI imaging there was evidence of FVH on the initial scan. In the interventional cohort (n = 33), cases with persistent FVH were discharged with less severe strokes (NIHSS 4 vs. 11, p = 0.04) despite presenting with equally severe strokes (22 vs. 17) and having equal recanalization rates (final TIMI 1.8 vs 1.5). This was due to the higher percentage of partial territory infarction with persistent FVH (75% vs. 50%) rather than complete territory infarction (10% vs. 25%). In non-interventional cases (N = 22) persistence of FVH was also associated with partial territory infarction (90% vs. 23%). Conclusions: Persistence of FVH on post-angiography MRI is associated with partial territory infarction. In cases of complete territory or no infarction, FVH disappear. 51.? Multiple Ischemic Strokes after Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization for Hepatocellular Carcinoma with a Radiographic and Pathologic Correlate Victor Zach1, Beth Rapaport1, Ji Yeoun Yoo1, Lara Goldfeder2, Jesse Weinberger1?1The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States, 2New York City Office of Chief Medical Examiner and Department of Forensic Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States Introduction: Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is a widely used form of therapy in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We report an autopsy case of multiple cerebral emboli during TACE. To our knowledge, this is the first case with pathological data. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 66 year old man with recurrent HCC underwent TACE. Forty-five minutes into the procedure the patient suddenly became unarousable. On examination, the patient was nonverbal, opened his eyes to voice, and did not follow commands. Right gaze preference, right facial weakness, but otherwise normal brainstem reflexes were present. He localized to noxious stimuli. Ankle clonus was present bilaterally. His fingers and left foot were cold and cyanotic. Results: Diffusion weighted imaging of the brain revealed innumerable punctate areas of restricted diffusion throughout both cerebral hemispheres and cerebellum reflecting small infarcts that appeared embolic. Transesophageal echocardiography and emboli detection transcranial dopplers did not demonstrate a shunt. An abdominal CT revealed bibasilar atelectasis. No significant improvement occurred after 6 weeks. On autopsy multiple microscopic subacute infarcts were found in the cerebrum, midbrain and cerebellum, but no embolic material was seen. Embolic material was noted in dilated vessels throughout the fibrotic right diaphragm and in the upper lobe of the right lung. Conclusion: Cerebral embolism after TACE of HCC is rare, yet devastating. Our patient's post-TACE abdominal CT revealed bibasilar atelectasis masking a pathologically proven hepato-pulmonary shunt. We suggest careful evaluation for invasion of HCC into the thoracic cavity prior to TACE. 52.? Fibromuscular Dysplasia Presenting as a Common Carotid Artery Dissection Resulting in Multiple Ischemic Infarcts: Neurosonographic Diagnosis with Angiographic Correlate Victor Zach, Svetlana Zhovtis, Kathryn Kirchoff, Jesse Weinberger The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States Introduction: Common carotid artery (CCA) dissection is a rare cause of ischemic stroke. We describe a case of multiple acute infarcts in a patient with CCA dissection, detected initially by carotid duplex (CD.) Patients (or Materials) and Methods: A 50 year-old Caucasian female with a history of classic migraine developed a rapidly expanding visual aura evolving into an inability to see on her right side, left cervicooccipital pain, and an inability to speak, lasting for 45 minutes. On arrival, the patient was asymptomatic. Her mood was labile, cycling rapidly between inappropriate laughter and inappropriate crying. Object recall was impaired. She had no focal neurological deficits. Results: An urgent CD revealed a circular area of dissection in the distal CCA with some mobility of the dense circular rim of the thrombus and a lucent core. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple foci of acute infarction in the left anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral artery distributions, and a carotid (i.e. fetal) origin of the left posterior cerebral artery. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the neck with gadolinium demonstrated the CCA dissection. Full anticoagulation was started. Conventional angiography confirmed the CCA dissection and was suggestive of fibromuscular dysplasia. At one month follow up she remained asymptomatic. On repeat CD there was a 3.5 mm area of distal CCA dissection with resolution of the circular thrombus. Conclusion: CCA dissection is rare but must be recognized by CD. Axial images are necessary in patients where dissection is suspected to make a definitive diagnosis. 53.? Extra Cranial Carotid Artery Disease in Egypt Foad Abd Allah, Essam Baligh 1Cairo University-Neurology Department, Cairo, Egypt, 2Cairo University-Cardiovascular Medicine Department, Cairo, Egypt Background and Purpose: The prevalence of carotid artery stenosis has been studied in several cohorts and cross-sectional studies of populations. Prevalence estimates are mostly based on ultrasound studies, because duplex ultrasound is accurate, reproducible, and inexpensive to diagnose and follow patients with arterial disorders. The purpose of our study is to describe the pattern of a large sample of Egyptians. Methods: We analyzed the data of 4733 Egyptian subjects who underwent extracranial carotid duplex scanning at the vascular laboratories of two large tertiary referral hospitals in Cairo from 1.2.2003 to 1.2.2008. Demographic and clinical data and cause of referral were correlated with ultrasound findings. Results: Atherosclerotic carotid artery disease was present in 40.9% of the study population: Intimal thickening and less than 50% stenosis in 38.34%, 50?69% internal carotid artery stenosis in 1.9%, ≥ 70% stenosis in 0.6% and occlusion in 0.06%. Non-atherosclerotic disease was detected in 9 subjects (0.19%) only. Multivariate stepwise logistic regression analysis selected age, hypertension and diabetes mellitus as independent predictors of the presence of carotid atherosclerotic disease. Conclusion: Hemodynamically significant and clinically relevant extracranial atherosclerotic carotid disease is rare in Egyptians. Risk factors for carotid atherosclerosis are the same as in societies where carotid disease is more prevalent. 54.? Cerebral Blood Flow Velocity Measurement in Children at Risk for Hypoxic-Ischemic Brain Injury: Preliminary Results Michele Merat2, Audrey Shibata1, Jamie Hutchison1, Anne-Marie Guerguerian1?1Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, 2University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland Objectives: To characterize the relationship between cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV), physiologic variables, and outcome in children at risk for hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury. Methods: Prospective cohort study of children following cardiopulmonary arrests and return of spontaneous circulation, or cardiac and/or respiratory failure supported by extra-corporeal mechanical oxygenation (ECMO), associated with coma. Utstein methods were used for definitions. CBFV measured with transcranial Doppler sonography, cerebral oxygen saturation (ScO2) with near infrared spectroscopy, and systemic physiologic variables were measured daily up to 6 days during stable hemodynamic conditions until extubation, decannulation from ECMO, or death. Pediatric Cerebral Performance Category (PCPC) was assessed at 3 and 6 months. Longitudinal data analyses for repeated measures were used to model the relationship between CBFV and physiologic variables. Results: Nineteen comatose subjects were enrolled after informed consent process, aged between 7 days to 17 years. Among subjects supported by ECMO, change in CBFV was associated with flow in ml/min, time after injury and PaO2. CBFV was not independently associated with mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), hematocrit, and PaCO2. ScO2 was associated with MABP and ECMO flow. Probability of survival was not statistically associated with CBFV however a trend for increased or maintained CBFV is shown in the current sample. Conclusions: These preliminary data suggest that the study is feasible. More importantly these data are needed given that the relationship between CBFV and physiologic variables reported (or expected) in healthy children is not immediately found in children with coma following events associated with severe risk for HI brain injury. These preliminary results need to be examined further, for longer periods of time, and focusing on measuring the integrity of cerebral autoregulation. 55.? Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Flow Across the Aqueduct of Sylvius (AS) in Neonates is Induced by Respiration Paul Maertens, Shannon Overs, Daniel Dees, Zachary Funk, Lee Vick University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, United States Introduction: In adults, it is currently accepted that cardiac cycle-related variations in cerebral blood volume produce bidirectional oscillatory movement of CSF within AS. To assess if this is also true in neonates we investigated the Doppler spectral waveform of CSF flowing across AS and analyzed its temporal relation to the cardiac cycle and respiration. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Seven neonates with grade 2 IVHs were first shown to have a flow signal in AS using power Doppler imaging through the anterior and posterior fontanelles using a Phillips 5500. Subsequently, using duplex imaging, Doppler spectral waveform of CSF was displayed simultaneously with EKG tracing and temporal relation to respiration was analyzed using the flow?time display on Dräger ventilators. Results: Doppler spectral waveform of CSF in AS was bidirectional in all neonates. The flow direction of CSF was not affected by cardiac cycle. Instead flow direction of CSF correlated directly with the flow of air in the upper airways during respiration. During inspiration, there was a short caudocranial movement of CSF which was followed by a longer craniocaudal movement of CSF during expiration. Conclusion: In neonates with IVHs, duplex imaging can provide real time information about CSF flow. The bidirectional oscillatory movements of CSF within AS are produced by variations in the cerebral blood volume during the respiratory cycle. During inspiration, the net inflow of blood increases the intracranial volume and produces craniocaudal CSF flow. During expiration, the net outflow of blood decreases the intracranial volume and promotes caudocranial flow. TCD Sensitivity (%) Specificity (%) PPV (%) P value bMCA MFV≥120 66.7 86.4 47.1 <0.001 mMCA MFV≥120 83.3 63.3 22.7 ??0.003 Preangio MFV≥150 91.7 85.3 42.3 <0.001 aMCA-bMCA ratio ≥1.5 91.7 60.3 27.5 ??0.001 aMCA-cMCA ratio ≥1.25 75? 55.6 14.8 ??0.042 aMCA-iACA ratio≥2 36.4 66.3 12.1 ?0.55 aMCA-iPCA ratio≥2.5 90?? 31.1 13.5 ?0.58 aMCA Lindegaard ratio 91?? 69?? 31.2 <0.001 56.? Derivation of Transcranial Doppler criteria for Angiographically proven Middle Cerebral Artery vasospasm after Aneurysmal Subarachnoid hemorrhage Joseph Sebastian, Carol Derksen, Khurshid Khan, Bilal Hameed, Mohammad Ibrahim, Muzaffar Siddiqui, Ashfaq Shuaib, Maher Saqqur University of Alberta, Edmonton,Alberta, Canada Introduction: Transcranial Doppler (TCD) has been subjected to many criticisms for its ability to detect impending vasospasm. The purpose of this study is to derive a new criteria of middle cerebral artery (MCA) vasospasm (VSP) based on correlation between TCD and MCA vasospasm after aneurysmal SAH. Patients and Methods: A prospective collected data of 134 patients with aneurysmal SAH admitted to University of Alberta hospital from January 2006 to December 2008. Complete TCD was performed daily from day 2 to 14 from symptoms onset. Follow up DSA was done at day 7 to 9 from symptom's onset. TCD mean flow velocity (MFV) of all vessels at baseline, middle and before DSA were measured.The following MCA ratios were calculated: Affected MCA MFV/ baseline MCA MFV ratio (aMCA/ bMCA ratio), aMCA/ contralateral (c) MCA MFV ratio, aMCA/ ipsilateral (i)ACA MFVratio,aMCA/ iPCA MFV ratio, and aMCA Lindegaard ratio. DSA VSP was defined as > 1/3 luminal narrowing. Univariate and multiple variate analysis were used. Results: Results are preliminary and final results will be notified later. Based on the above ratios, an algorithmic TCD analysis for MCA VSP will be developed. Conclusion: Stringent criteria for MCA VSP based TCD velocities are feasible and applicable in SAH population. ECHO SAV V-V E/A Ao (VTI) M(VTI) Baseline 180 LV 40 1.3 12.2 12.9 150 1.8 15.6 210 1.8 15.9 200 LV 40 1.6 13.0 15.0 Final 200 LV 20 13.0 TCD PAV Range of flow V-V ? Baseline 200 105?111 0 90?106 100 101?113 LV 10 104?113 150 101?110 LV 20 104?111 160 107?111 LV 30 104?111 180 105?115 LV 50 100?109 57.? Usefulness of TCD as a Diagnostic Tool to Evaluate Intracranial Hemodynamic Status: Five Years Experience Methil Pradeep, Sowntharya Yashoda, Mazharudeen Mohammed KG Hospital  RMCA PSV 83, EDV 23, MV37, RI 0.72, PI 1.62. Autonomic failure ensued, sedatives were tapered;burst suppression persisted on EEG. Follow up TCDs (pCO2 43.4, MAP 71) showed LMCA PSV 181, EDV 39, MV 70, RI 0.78, PI 2.03; RMCA PSV 161, EDV 39.5, MV 65, RI 0.75, PI 1.87 .CTangiogram showed effacement of sulci but no vasospasm; opening pressure 41 cm on lumbar puncture. Next TCD (pCO2 54.3, MAP 69) showed LMCA PSV141, EDV 37.6, MV 70.1, RI 0.73, PI 1.48; RMCA PSV 114, EDV 32, MV 55.3, RI 0.72, PI 1.48. Patient then developed acute renal failure, severe acidosis, hypotension refractory to vasopressors and transtentorial herniation. Patient expired on Day 8 of hospitalization. Steadily increasing velocities & indices in this patient represented increasing cerebral edema with no vasospasm on CTA. PI/RI represent increase in peripheral vascular resistance & correlate well (r = 0.99). Increased intracranial pressures in this case may have been side effect of therapy or be part of natural history of rabies adding to spectrum of Doppler findings in this rare disease. 61.? The Progression of Middle Cerebral Artery Velocities on Transcranial Doppler in Children with Sickle Cell Disease Barbara Voetsch1, Feliks Koyfman1, Haroot Artinian1, Philippa Sprinz2, Karla Fuentes2, Pikula Aleksandra1, Michael Winter3, Christopher Kelly1, Michael Murray1, Matthew Ogrodnik1, Viken Babikian1?1Department of Neurology ? Boston Medical Center, Boston, United States, 2Department of Pediatrics ? Boston Medical Center, Boston, United States, 3Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, United States Introduction: Sickle cell disease (SCD) carries a high risk of stroke in children. Based on the STOP trial, transcranial Doppler (TCD) is recommended to identify children with increased stroke risk, defined sonologically as mean middle cerebral artery velocity (MCAv) ≥200 cm/sec. However, the rate of disease progression as measured by TCD and the effect of therapeutic interventions on its values has not been extensively studied. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: We performed a retrospective study of 79 children with homozygous SCD (53.2%M; age at first TCD: 7.4±4.1 yrs; 86.1% African-American) followed at Boston Medical Center's Pediatric Hematology program from 2004?2008. Treatment with hydroxyurea and/or exchange transfusion was initiated as clinically indicated. Serial TCDs were performed, and mean MCAv change over time was analyzed by linear regression. Results: All children had at least 2 TCD studies (53%: 3 studies; 32%: ≥ 4 studies). The average MCAv on first study was 134.1±27 cm/sec (reference for unaffected children: 80±15 cm/sec). Four children had MCAv ≥200 cm/sec on first TCD, two of which improved with transfusions. Three children (4%) with non-critical values initially, progressed to MCAv≥200 cm/sec. Overall, there was a non-significant increase in MCAv to 153.2±39.9 cm/sec (p = 0.22). In treatment-stratified analyses, the rate of progression of MCAv also did not change significantly. Conclusions: Although MCAvs did not change significantly overall, 4% of children developed critical levels. Determinants of this progression remain unclear. Further studies are required to better understand the natural history of the disease and the rate of MCAv change on TCD. 62.? Reversible Congestive Venous Myelopathy due to Spinal Dural Arterio-venous Fistula Munish Goyal, Aarti Sarwal, Mason Cummins, Niranjan Singh University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States Introduction: Dural vascular malformations compose 3?4% of spinal cord masses. These are often not considered in differential diagnosis of progressive myelopathy. We present a case of reversible venous congestive myelopathy due to spinal dural arterio-venous fistula (DAVF). Results: 64-year-old male with chronic low back pain presented with 3-month history of relapsing remitting weakness of both lower extremities. MRI lumbosacral spine and CT myelogram showed changes of previous lumbar diskectomy and scoliosis. He developed acute right sciatic pain, deteriorating asymmetric paraparesis with bladder retention. Examination showed areflexic paraplegia, extensor plantars, T10 sensory level, absent cremasteric and anal reflex with disability grade, Aminoff  prominent intradural extramedullary veins suggesting DAVF. Patient was given intravenous methylprednisone and transferred to another facility for spinal angiogram which showed spinal DAVF at right L4 with intradural vein draining into spinal canal upto mid-thoracic level. Transarterial embolization was performed with no residual DAVF on follow up. He started improving immediately after embolization. He was discharged to rehabilitation where he continued to improve, regained bladder function and ability to walk with walker. Conclusion: This case illustrates rare natural history of spinal DAVF with relapsing remitting subacute course. Most literature reports poor outcomes in patients with DAVF with high Aminoff and Logue score and late intervention. Our patient showed significant improvement despite high disability score suggesting that myelopathy in spinal DAVF is caused by reversible venous congestion hence AVF should be treated aggressively regardless of presentation. 63.? Neuroimaging in Children with Tongue Fasciculations Izabela Koper-Skladaniec, Paul Maertens, Jennifer Currie, Sherryl Falkos, Rosa Vidal University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, United States Introduction: Bilateral tongue fasciculations are a hallmark of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). The onset is usually subacute with bilateral fasciculations and atrophy. The vast majority of acute unilateral tongue fasciculations are due to idiopathic hypoglossal nerve palsies (HNP) that resolve spontaneously without atrophy. Neuroimaging findings in pediatric patients presenting with tongue fasciculations due to other causes than SMA and HNP have not been systematically reviewed. Materials and Methods: Records of all children presenting to our hospital with tongues fasciculation between 2004 and 2009 were reviewed. Ten patients between 15 years of age and early infancy were identified. Mean age of our population was 2.1 years old. None of these patients had SMA or HNP. Brain MRI, CT scan and/or ultrasound were done in 7, 8 and 4 patients respectively. Results: Neuroimaging studies were abnormal in all except one neonate with diagnosis of congenital hypoplasia of left hypoglossal nucleus. In three neonates with diagnosis of Möbius syndrome, cranial ultrasound and CT scan showed brainstem calcifications. In one neonate with spinocerebellar degeneration, CT scan and ultrasound showed progressive spinocerebellar atrophy. In two infants with spinocerebellar ataxia type 7, CT scan and MRI showed cerebellar atrophy. In one infant, MRI showed syringobulbia. In one older child with acute demyelinating rhombencephalitis, MRI showed abnormal signal in medulla. In a teenager with acute brainstem infarction, CT and MRI showed basilar artery thrombosis. Conclusion: We conclude that neuroimaging is extremely useful in distinguishing various etiologies of tongue fasciculations. Abstract 64 is intentionally omitted. 65.? Venous Collaterals and Perfusion in Acute-on-Chronic Cerebral Venous Thrombosis Qing Hao, Neal Rao, Suman Kalanithi, David Liebeskind UCLA Stroke Center, Los Angeles, United States Introduction: The depiction of cerebral venous thrombosis, associated venous congestion and collaterals have been revolutionized by the advent of multimodal CT/MRI. Thrombolysis is often pursued in extensive thromboses as in the superior sagittal sinus (SSS), yet parenchymal lesions and capacity of myriad venous collateral outflow routes are drawing increasing attention beyond delineation of thrombosis itself. Methods: Case report of acute-on-chronic previously undiagnosed SSS thrombosis. Results: A 61-year old man suffered from acute onset of severe headache and CT was performed without any diagnosis established or treatment initiated. The headache waxed and waned, particularly exacerbated by dependent head position. Intermittent, severe bouts of headache occurred every 1?2 months for 1 year until they became constant for 2 weeks before culminating with a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. MRI revealed FLAIR hyperintensity in the left fronto-parietal region and petechial hemorrhage in the right caudate nucleus. DWI did not demonstrate ischemia yet perfusion images displayed bilateral centrum semiovale lesions. MRV, CTV, and conventional angiography all showed extensive SSS with marked diminution of bilateral transverse sinuses and prominent venous collaterals. Review of the original CT from 1 year earlier showed the right caudate lesion and hyperdensity throughout the SSS. Anticoagulation was started in the ICU, yet potential thrombolysis was never needed and he was discharged without neurological sequelae. Conclusion: Extensive thrombosis in the SSS and transverse sinuses may cause isolated headache due to acute-on-chronic venous congestion. Venous collaterals and not necessarily clot extent may be critical neuroimaging features to consider in management of cerebral venous thrombosis. 66.? Changes of Cerebral Glucose Metabolism in Subcortical Aphasia after Hemorrhagic Stroke Yong Wook Kim, Ji Hoon Jang, Yu Hee Won Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea, Republic of Objective: The functions of subcortical structures in language are still controversial, but the several roles that basal ganglia and thalamus are essential components of the brain networks have been suggested. Subcortical hemorrhagic stroke in dominant hemisphere has known to induce aphasia by structural disconnection or by compressive ischemia among language related cortical structure. But, the functional neuroimaging researches which wish to clarify the relationship between subcortical aphasia and secondary cortical dysfunction are limited. The aim of this study was to investigate the changes of cerebral cortical metabolism in subcortical aphasia after hemorrhagic stroke in dominant hemisphsere and assess the relationship between the severity of subcortical aphasia and the associated cortical dysfunction using brain positron emission tomography (PET). Subjects and Methods: 16 right handed patients (10 men, 6 women; mean age, 52.4 years with range, 36?79 years; mean duration from onset to study, 4.1 month with range 1?7.5 momths) with left subcortical hemorrhage, who spoke Korean as their first language, were enrolled in this study. All patients underwent an aphasia evaluation using the Korean version of the Western Aphasia Battery (K-WAB). The severity of aphasia was evaluated by calculating the aphasia quotient (AQ) for each patient by summing the score of the 4 subtests. Measurement of cerebral glucose metabolism using Brain 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG PET) was performed in the control and the all patients. Statistical analysis of PET images in the control and all patients were performed using statistical parametric mapping software (SPM2, Institute of Neurology, University College London, UK) by a voxel-by-voxel basis using two sample t-test. Additionally, the correlation between the changes of cerebral glucose metabolism and the AQ was assessed using a single-subject covariate model. Results: SPM analysis of 18F-FDG PET images showed that significantly decreased cerebral glucose metabolism in the subcortical aphasic patients, compared to the healthy control, was in the left superior frontal gyrus, the middle frontal gyrus, the left inferior parietal gyrus and the right cerebellar cortex (Pcorrectecd < 0.005). In contrast, the right inferior frontal gyrus, the right middle temporal gyrus, the right inferior temporal gyrus, the right hippocampal gyrus, the right postcentral and the right supramarginal gyrus, the right supplementary motor area and the left cerebellum (Pcorrectecd < 0.005). In voxel-based SPM correlation analysis between the changes of cerebral glucose metabolism and the AQ of each patients, the most significant positive correlations were observed in the both rectal gyri and the right hippocampal and parahippocampal gyri (Puncorrectecd < 0.01). Conclusion: Subcortical aphasia after hemorrhagic stroke showed increased metabolism in the non-dominant hemisphere that is a homologue of expressive and comprehensive area in dominant hemisphere and showed cerebral metabolic correlation with neural networking cortex which is involved in semantic fluency and memory. These findings may support the understanding of mechanism for language recovery. 67.? Cerebral Metabolic Patterns in Permanent Vegetative State after Acquired Brain Injury Yong Wook Kim, Ji Hoon Jang, Mi Hee Park Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea, Republic of Objectives: Vegetative state is defined as preservation of spontaneous eye opening, sleep wake cycle, but there is complete absence of behavioral evidence for awareness of self and environment. Particularly, permanent vegetative state exhibit sustained impaired level of consciousness longer than 12 months in traumatic causes and 3 months in non-traumatic causes of brain injury. Even though there were many studies to assess cerebral metabolic patterns in acute and persistent vegetative state, researches for cerebral metabolic patterns in permanent vegetative state there were limited. For that reason, we evaluated the changes of cerebral glucose metabolism in permanent vegetative state after acquired brain injury in this study. Subjects and Methods: 12 patients with permanent vegetative state in level of consciousness were consecutively enrolled in this study. Three patients were caused by traumatic brain injury, nine patients by non-traumatic brain injury. We measured the level of consciousness by JFK-Coma Recovery Scale (JFK-CRS), and evaluated cerebral glucose metabolism by positron emission tomography scanner (GE. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA). Statistical analysis of cerebral metabolism in permanent vegetative state was performed by statistical parametric mapping software (SPM2, Institute of Neurology, University College London, UK) comparing to 12 normal controls and correlation analysis between cerebral metabolism and level of consciousness state measured by JFK-CRS was evaluated by single-to-single covariate analysis in SPM2. Results: 1. SPM analysis showed that significantly decreased cerebral glucose metabolism in permanent vegetative state was in the left precuneus, both middle cingulum, both thalamus, the left superior parietal and the left occipital cortices, the right middle and the right inferior frontal cortices compared to normal controls (Pcorrected < 0.005). 2. Statistically significant Increase of cerebral metabolism in permanent vegetative state was in both cerebellum, the right supramarginal and the left inferior temporal cortices (Pcorrected < 0.005). 3. In correlation analysis between changes of cerebral glucose metabolism and level of consciousness measured by JFK-CRS, improved level of consciousness was significantly associated with increased metabolism in both middle cingulum (Puncorrected < 0.005). Conclusions: Our findings suggested that permanent vegetative state after acquired brain injury showed significant decrease of diffuse cerebral metabolism in the neural network of consciousness, which could be helpful to study for neural mechanism for consciousness recovery. 68.? Preserved GABA-A Binding on 11C-flumazenil Positron Emission Tomography in Alzheimer Disease Belen Pascual1, Elena Prieto3, Josep M. Marti-Climent3, Javier Arbizu3, Jose C. Masdeu2?1Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States, 2Section in Integrative Neuroimaging, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States, 3Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Navarra Medical School, Pamplona, Navarra, Spain Introduction:[11C]flumazenil is a specific positron emission tomography (PET) tracer for the GABA-A receptor, abundant in the medial temporal lobe, an early target of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. [11C]flumazenil PET has been reported to be more sensitive and specific than diffusion-weighted MRI for the detection of neuronal loss in stroke. We conducted a pilot study to evaluate the potential of flumazenil imaging to detect neuronal loss in AD. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Eight AD patients and 9 matched healthy controls were studied. Mean Mini-Mental Examination score for the AD patients was 20.57 (SD, 4.67). An arterial input function was applied to derive both the total tissue distribution volume and the binding potential of flumazenil, using the graphic plot method of Logan (2001). The distribution volume of flumazenil was analyzed using both regions-of-interest (ROIs) and voxel-based analysis methods (SPM). Results: We did not find significant differences in GABA-A receptor density between AD patients and healthy controls. The presence of dementia was not associated with a reduced distribution volume of flumazenil. Conclusion: 11C-flumazenil PET demonstrates no apparent loss of GABA-A receptor density in early Alzheimer disease. 69.? FDG-PET Changes in Brain Glucose Metabolism in Patients with White Matter Disease with and without Dementia: Differentiation from Alzheimer Disease Belen Pascual1, Elena Prieto3, Josep M. Marti-Climent3, Javier Arbizu3, Jose C. Masdeu2?1Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States, 2Section in Integrative Neuroimaging, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States, 3Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Navarra Medical School, Pamplona, Navarra, Spain Introduction: The boundary between vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) continues to be unclear. Some posit that progressive vascular dementia, as with small-vessel disease, is simply vascular brain disease plus AD. As AD presents a characteristic pattern on fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) PET, we sought to determine whether the FDG pattern of vascular dementia resembled more AD or the pattern in patients with severe microvascular disease but no dementia. Patients (or Materials) and Methods: Vascular disease patients were selected on the basis of confluent white matter lesions on both hemispheres. Among them, with a similar degree of vascular disease on MRI, neuropsychological testing separated groups with dementia (WMD-D, N = 8) and without dementia (WMD-nD, N = 9). In addition, 8 patients with AD, and 9 healthy controls were studied. Groups were matched by age, sex and education level. FDG distribution was analyzed using voxel-based analysis methods (SPM). Results: The AD group showed the characteristic pattern of bilateral hypometabolism in temporo-parietal association cortex and cuneus. By contrast, patients with vascular dementia had a similar pattern to the vascular patients without dementia. However, a comparison between the two groups of vascular patients showed a greater decrease in frontal metabolism in the demented patients, a pattern quite distinct from the metabolic pattern of AD. Conclusion: FDG- PET seems to suggest that, at least in some instances of vascular dementia, the metabolic abnormality defining the presence of dementia involves the frontal lobe, a pattern quite different from AD and concordant with the neuropsychological findings of impaired executive function characteristic of vascular dementia.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chaoui, R.
TI  - WS01-08Three-dimensional power Doppler of fetal malformations
JO  - Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology
VL  - 16
IS  - s1
SN  - 9781118555521
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-8.x
DO  - doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.2000.00009-1-8.x
SP  - 6
EP  - 6
PY  - 2000
AB  - Background The aim of the study was to examine the impact of three-dimensional power Doppler ultrasound (3D-PDU) in fetal abnormalities involving the vascular system. Method Eighty seven selected pregnancies were included in the study. ATL HDI-3000 and 5000 ultrasound equipment with integrated 3D-Color Power Angio ? software were used. Data acquisition was done by the free-hand-technique and images were reconstructed online. Results Reconstruction was only possible in 56 out of the 87 (64%) considered pregnancies. These were abnormalities of placenta and umbilical vessels (n?=?26), intra-abdominal and intrathoracal anomalies (n?=?12), renal malformations (n?=?9), central nervous system (n?=?4) as well as cardiac defects (n?=?5). The main reasons for failure were fetal position and movements, overlapping with signals from neighboring vessels as well as the reduced attempts in 3D in an on-line system. Details and figures of the potential field of interest in prenatal diagnosis are presented. Conclusions The study shows that 3D-power Doppler can be applied in prenatal diagnosis. The method enables the visualization of main parts of the fetal vascular system under abnormal conditions with the exception of the fetal heart where a trigger system is still needed.
ER  - 
