
TY  - JOUR
AU  - Nuttall, David
AU  - Birch, Ann
AU  - Trail, Ian I.
AU  - Espag, Marius P.
AU  - Clark, David I.
AU  - Stanley, John K.
TI  - Assessing elbow assessment, past, present and future
JO  - Shoulder & Elbow
VL  - 2
IS  - 1
SN  - 1758-5732
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1758-5740.2009.00046.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1758-5740.2009.00046.x
SP  - 43
EP  - 54
KW  - Elbow
KW  - assessment
KW  - domain
KW  - psychometric
KW  - Rasch
KW  - outcome
PY  - 2010
AB  - The state of elbow assessment is reviewed using a timeline of past, present and future. Empirical evidence is provided supporting the conclusions made in recent years that patient self-assessed evaluation of elbow function is valid, consistent and reliable. This form of assessment is so robust that it does not appear to matter whether the scale is composed of four, five or seven categories or even a visual analogue scale per item. The raw scores are not linear but can be constructed as such using Rasch modelling. Items included in any one scale have been identified as being on a continuum of difficulty, and the continuum itself can be considered as a ?ruler? of difficulty. Finally, the health of the elbow cannot be summarized as just one domain. We suggest that health of the elbow be considered by an expert panel (BESS) where the concepts of pain, function and impairment are fitted to the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health framework, so that a standardized assessment regime is available on a national basis.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Silva-Ramos, Miguel
AU  - Silva, Isabel
AU  - Oliveira, José Carlos
AU  - Correia-de-Sá, Paulo
TI  - Increased Urinary Adenosine Triphosphate in Patients With Bladder Outlet Obstruction Due to Benign Prostate Hyperplasia
JO  - The Prostate
JA  - Prostate
VL  - 76
IS  - 15
SN  - 0270-4137
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/pros.23207
DO  - doi:10.1002/pros.23207
SP  - 1353
EP  - 1363
KW  - urinary ATP
KW  - bladder outflow obstruction
KW  - benign prostatic hyperplasia
KW  - human bladder
KW  - normal voiding
PY  - 2016
AB  - BACKGROUND Diagnosis of bladder outflow obstruction (BOO) in patients with lower urinary tract (LUT) symptoms is challenging without using invasive urodynamic tests. Recently, we showed in vitro that urothelial strips from patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) release more ATP than controls. Here, we tested whether urinary ATP can be used as a wall tension transducer non-invasive biomarker to detect BOO in patients with BPH. METHODS 79 male patients with BOO and 22 asymptomatic controls were recruited prospectively. Patients were asked to complete the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) questionnaire and to void at normal desire into a urinary flowmeter; the postvoid residual volume was determined by suprapubic ultrasonography. Urine samples from all individuals were examined for ATP, creatinine, and lactate dehydrogenase. RESULTS BOO patients had significantly higher (P?<?0.001) urinary ATP normalized by the voided volume (456?±?36?nmol) than age-matched controls (209?±?35?nmol). Urinary ATP amounts increased with the voided volume, but the slope of this rise was higher in BOO patients than in controls. A negative correlation was detected between urinary ATP and flow rate parameters, namely maximal flow rate (r?=??0.310, P?=?0.005), Siroky flow-volume normalization (r?=??0.324, P?=?0.004), and volume-normalized flow rate index (r?=??0.320, P?=?0.012). We found no correlation with LUT symptoms IPSS score. Areas under the receiver operator characteristics (ROC) curves were 0.91 (95%CI 0.86?0.96, P?<?0.001) for ATP alone and 0.88 (95%CI 0.81?0.94, P?<?0,001) when adjusted to urinary creatinine. CONCLUSIONS Patients with BOO release higher amounts of ATP into the urine than the control group. The high area under the ROC curve suggests that urinary ATP can be a high-sensitive non-invasive biomarker of BOO, which may have a discriminative value of detrusor competence when comparing BPH patients with low urinary flow rates. Prostate 76:1353?1363, 2016. ? 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Öz, Ahmet
AU  - Çınar, Tufan
AU  - Hayıroğlu, Mert İlker
AU  - Avşar, Şahin
AU  - Keskin, Muhammed
AU  - Orhan, Ahmet Lütfüllah
TI  - The predictive value of plasma osmolality for in-hospital mortality in patients with acute pulmonary embolism
JO  - The Clinical Respiratory Journal
JA  - Clin Respir J
VL  - 13
IS  - 3
SN  - 1752-6981
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/crj.13001
DO  - doi:10.1111/crj.13001
SP  - 174
EP  - 183
KW  - acute pulmonary embolism
KW  - in-hospital mortality
KW  - plasma hyperosmolarity
KW  - plasma osmolality
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Introduction and Objectives Prior studies demonstrated that plasma osmolality may have a predictive value for in-hospital mortality in patients with heart failure and acute coronary syndrome. In addition, plasma glucose and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels, the components of plasma osmolality, have been shown to be an important contributor for in-hospital mortality in acute pulmonary embolism (APE) patients. Hence, the objective of the current study is to evaluate the effect of plasma osmolality upon admission with in-hospital mortality in patients with APE. Methods A total of 245 consecutive intermediate or high risk APE patients were enrolled into the study. The study population was divided into three tertile groups (T1, T2 and T3) based on the increased plasma osmolality. The in-hospital mortality was the primary end-point. Results After adjusting for all risk factors, in-hospital mortality was significantly higher in the T3 group compared to T1 and T2 groups (OR: 3.6, 95% CI: 1.3 to 18.8, P < .001). In addition, the incidence of asystolia, hypotension and cardiogenic shock were significantly higher in the T3 group. An area under the receiver operating characteristic curve value of plasma osmolality for the in-hospital mortality was 0.76 with sensitivity 67.2% and specificity 74.1% 95% CI: (0.66-0.87, P < .001). Conclusion This is the first study to demonstrate that elevated levels of plasma osmolality may have a predictive value for in-hospital mortality in APE patients. Our findings are novel and deserve further studies whether the treatment of higher plasma osmolality may reduce the risk of in-hospital mortality in APE patients.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Georgoudis, George
AU  - Papathanasiou, George
AU  - Spiropoulos, Panagiotis
AU  - Katsoulakis, Kostantinos
TI  - Cognitive assessment of musculoskeletal pain with a newly validated Greek version of the Fear-Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire (FABQ)
JO  - European Journal of Pain
VL  - 11
IS  - 3
SN  - 1090-3801
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejpain.2006.05.001
DO  - doi:10.1016/j.ejpain.2006.05.001
SP  - 341
EP  - 351
KW  - FABQ
KW  - Greek
KW  - Questionnaire
KW  - Pain
KW  - Validity
PY  - 2007
AB  - Abstract Fear of pain and avoidance are psychological factors of primary importance when assessing chronic musculoskeletal pain, which are often measured with the Fear-Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire (FABQ). Both two- and three-subscale versions have been described. The aims of this study were: to assess the cognitive traits of musculoskeletal pain patients using a newly validated Greek version of the FABQ, and to further examine the construct validity and responsiveness of the measure. Factor analysis yielded three factors that accounted for 65% of the total variance. Physical activity explained 12.3% of the variance and was identical to the original version, unlike the work subscale which split into two: the FABQ work1 related to ?work as cause? (15.2% of the variance) and the FABQ work2 related to ?work as prognosis? (37.5% of the variance). Internal consistency was good (0.72?0.90). Test?retest reliability was satisfactory and close to the original version both for individual items and the subscales. Responsiveness of the 3-factor model was satisfactorily assessed as the ability to detect: (A) change in general ? (paired t test, effect size); (B) clinically important change (paired t test, standardised effect size), and (C) real change in the concept being measured (ROC analysis). Construct validity of the FABQ was shown through the interaction with anxiety and depression, pain control and responsibility, psychological distress and pain intensity, and criterion-related validity through the association with another fear-avoidance measure (TSK). New aspects of responsiveness and construct validity were demonstrated for the FABQ, using a three-subscale validated Greek version.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Andersson, C.
AU  - Wenander, C. S.
AU  - Usher, P. A.
AU  - Hebsgaard, J. B.
AU  - Sondergaard, B.-C.
AU  - Rønø, B.
AU  - Mackay, C.
AU  - Friedrichsen, B.
AU  - Chang, C.
AU  - Tang, R.
AU  - Hornum, L.
TI  - Rapid-onset clinical and mechanistic effects of anti-C5aR treatment in the mouse collagen-induced arthritis model
JO  - Clinical & Experimental Immunology
JA  - Clin Exp Immunol
VL  - 177
IS  - 1
SN  - 0009-9104
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/cei.12338
DO  - doi:10.1111/cei.12338
SP  - 219
EP  - 233
KW  - anti-C5aR
KW  - arthritis
KW  - macrophages
KW  - neutrophils
PY  - 2014
AB  - Summary Preclinical evidence supports targeting the C5a receptor (C5aR) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To support ongoing clinical development of an anti-C5aR monoclonal antibody, we have investigated for the first time the mechanism of action and the pharmacodynamics of a blocking anti-murine C5aR (anti-mC5aR) surrogate antibody in mouse collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). First, efficacy was demonstrated in a multiple-dose treatment study. Almost complete inhibition of clinical disease progression was obtained, including reduced bone and cartilage destruction in anti-mC5aR-treated mice. Then, the mechanism of action was examined by looking for early effects of anti-mC5aR treatment in single-dose treatment studies. We found that 48?h after single-dose treatment with anti-mC5aR, the neutrophil and macrophage infiltration into the paws was already reduced. In addition, several inflammatory markers, including tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-17A were reduced locally in the paws, indicating reduction of local inflammation. Furthermore, dose-setting experiments supported a beneficial clinical effect of dosing above the C5aR saturation level. In conclusion, these preclinical data demonstrated rapid onset effects of antibody blockade of C5aR. The data have translational value in supporting the Novo Nordisk clinical trials of an anti-C5aR antibody in rheumatoid arthritis patients, by identifying potential biomarkers of treatment effects as well as by providing information on pharmacodynamics and novel insights into the mechanism of action of monoclonal antibody blockade of C5aR.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Segev, G.
AU  - Nivy, R.
AU  - Kass, P.H.
AU  - Cowgill, L.D.
TI  - A Retrospective Study of Acute Kidney Injury in Cats and Development of a Novel Clinical Scoring System for Predicting Outcome for Cats Managed by Hemodialysis
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine
JA  - J Vet Intern Med
VL  - 27
IS  - 4
SN  - 0891-6640
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/jvim.12108
DO  - doi:10.1111/jvim.12108
SP  - 830
EP  - 839
KW  - Acute renal failure
KW  - Model
KW  - Risk factor
KW  - Score
KW  - Survival
PY  - 2013
AB  - Background Information regarding acute kidney injury (AKI) in cats is limited, and there are no reliable tools to objectively assess disease severity and predict outcome. Objectives To assess clinical signs, clinicopathologic abnormalities, etiology, and outcome of cats with AKI, and to develop models using clinical metrics and empirically derived scores to predict outcome. Animals One hundred and thirty-two client-owned cats. Methods Retrospective study. Bivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to identify variables predictive of 30-day survival. Continuous variables outside the reference range were divided into quartiles to yield quartile-specific odds ratios (OR) for survival. Models were developed incorporating weighting factors assigned to each quartile based on the OR. A predictive score for each model was calculated for each cat by summing all weighting factors. A second, multivariable logistic regression model was created from actual values of the same variables. Receiver operating characteristic curve analyses were performed to determine the models' performance. Models were further tested using a subset of cases not used in initial assessment. Results Fifty five of 132 cats (42%) remained dialysis-independent for at least 30 days after discharge, and the remaining 77 cats either died (n = 37, 28%) or were euthanized (n = 40, 30%). The most common etiology was ureteral obstruction (n = 46, 35%). Higher scores were associated with decreased probability of survival (P < .001). Models correctly classified outcomes in 75?77% of the cases and 84?89% of the cases in the subsequent evaluation. Conclusions and Clinical Importance Models can provide objective guidance in assessing AKI prognosis and severity, but should be validated in other cohorts of cats.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Platform Session B: Clinical Neurophysiology/Clinical Epilepsy  3:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m.
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_26.x
SP  - 264
EP  - 268
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Jose F. Tellez-Zenteno, 1 Scott B. Patten, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Studies indicate that up to 50% of patients with epilepsy have mental health disorders, with mood, anxiety, and psychotic disturbances being the most common. However, the prevalence of psychiatric illnesses in persons with epilepsy in the general population varies, owing to differences in methods, population, case ascertainment, and heterogeneity of epilepsy syndromes. We assessed the prevalence of self-reported, physician diagnosed mental health conditions associated with epilepsy in a large Canadian population health survey Methods: The Canadian Community Health Survey (CHS, N = 36,984) used probabilistic sampling to explore numerous aspects of mental health in the entire Canadian population, of whom 253 subjects had epilepsy. With sampling weights, the prevalence of epilepsy was 0.6%. Depression was ascertained with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (Short Form). Other valid scales various aspects of psychiatric comorbidity. The prevalence of drug and alcohol use, and abnormal ideation were ascertained through personal interviews. We explored age specific prevalence of mental health problems in epilepsy Results: The lifetime prevalence of depression was 22.2% (95%CI 14.0?30.4%) compared with 12.2% in the general population. The prevalence of depression in people with epilepsy was higher than in the general population in younger, but not older (>64 years) age groups. There was a marked effect of age on the prevalence of major depression (higher in younger individuals). The prevalence of social phobia was 15.8% (8.4?23.2) in people with epilepsy and 8.1% (7.6?8.5) in the general population. The 12-month prevalence of drug or alcohol dependence was not higher in people with epilepsy (3.0%) than in the general population (3.1%). Lifetime suicidal ideation was higher in patients with epilepsy 25.0% (95% CI 16.6?33.3) than in the general population 13.3% (95% CI 12.8?13.9) Conclusions: The prevalence of depression was considerable higher in younger people with epilepsy than in the general population. Social phobia and low indices of well being were more prevalent in epilepsy. We corroborated a high prevalence of suicidal ideation was in epilepsy patients. In contrast to other reports, we did not find a higher prevalence of alcohol and drug dependence in people with epilepsy. The complete analysis of mental health comorbidity will be presented 1 Miranda Geelhoed, 1 Anne Olde Boerrigter, 2 Peter R. Camfield, 1 Ada T. Geerts, 1 Willem Arts, 2 Bruce M. Smith, and 2 Carol S. Camfield ( 1 Department of Pediatric Neurology, Erasmus MC, Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, Netherlands ; and 2 Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University and IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS, Canada ) Rationale: About 50?60% of children with epilepsy eventually outgrow their seizure disorder. A number of predictive factors have been statistically associated with remission but it is unclear how accurate these factors are when applied to an individual child. Two large prospective cohort studies of childhood epilepsy (Nova Scotia and the Netherlands) each developed a statistical model to predict long-term outcome. We evaluated the accuracy of a prognostic model based on the two studies combined. Methods: A wealth of clinical and EEG variables were available for patients in both cohort studies. Data analyses with classification tree models and stepwise logistic regression produced predictive models for the combined dataset and the two separate cohorts. The resulting models were then externally validated on the opposite cohort. Remission was defined as no longer receiving daily medication for any length of time at the end of follow-up. Results: The combined cohorts yielded 1055 evaluable patients. At the end of follow up (≥5 years in >96%), 622 (59%) were in remission. Using the combined data, the classification tree model and the logistic regression model predicted the outcome (remission or no remission) correctly in approximately 70% (sensitivity ?72%, specificity?65%, positive predictive value?75%, negative predictive value ? 62%). The classification tree model split the data on epilepsy syndrome and age at first seizure. Independent statistically significant predictors in the logistic regression model were: seizure number before treatment, age at first seizure, absence seizures, epilepsy types of symptomatic generalized and symptomatic partial, pre-existing neurological signs, intelligence and the combination of febrile seizures and cryptogenic partial epilepsy. When the prediction models from each cohort were cross-validated on the opposite cohort, the outcome was predicted slightly less accurately than the model from the combined data. Conclusions: Based on currently available clinical and EEG variables, predicting the outcome of childhood epilepsy is difficult and appears to be incorrect in about one of every three patients. Predictions schemes are statistically robust but clinically relatively inaccurate. We suggest that clinicians should be cautious in applying prediction models when developing management strategies for individual children with epilepsy. 1 A. T. Berg, 2 B. G. Vickrey, 3 S. Smith, 3 F. M. Testa, 4 S. Shinnar, 3 S. R. Levy, 5 F. DiMario, and 3 B. Beckerman ( 1 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ; 2 Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; 3 Pediatrics, Yale, New Haven, CT ; 4 Neurology, Montefiore Hospital, Bronx, NY ; and 5 Neurology, CCMC, Hartford, CT ) Rationale: It is typically assumed that intractablility is evident soon after the onset of epilepsy. Retrospective histories from surgical patients, however, suggest that intractable seizures may not be evident for many years, particularly in partial epilepsy of childhood onset. Methods: In a community-based study of 613 children in Connecticut with newly diagnosed epilepsy (1993?97) prospectively followed a median of 9 years, the timing of the appearance of intractable epilepsy from date of initial diagnosis was determined. Two definitions for intractable epilepsy were used: 1) ?Strict:? 2 AED failures, ≥1 seizure/month for 18 months; 2) ?Loose:? 2 AED failures. Differences in the timing of the appearance of intractability were examined as a function of type of epilepsy syndrome. Results: Eighty-two children met the strict criteria for intractability: 38/294 (13%) of those with cryptogenic or symptomatic partial epilepsy (C/S-PE), 35/67 (52%) of those with an epileptic encephalopathy (EE) and 9/241 (4%) of those with idiopathic or other forms of epilepsy (p < 0.0001). Eleven children followed<18 months were not assigned an outcome. Twenty-five (30%) of the 82 intractable cases took >3 years to meet the strict criteria for intractability. The primary interest was in comparing EE and C/S-PE groups. Five of 35 (14%) intractable cases in the EE group versus 17/38 (45%) in the C/S-PE group met criteria at >3 years (p = 0.005). Loose criteria for intractability (2 AED failures) were met by 135 children. Of these, 32 (24%) met criteria >3 years after diagnosis: 1/46 in the EE group versus 25/69 in the C/S-PE group (p < 0.0001). In the C/S-PE group, 18/25 (72%) 25 who failed a second drug >3 years after diagnosis had experienced a 1+ year remission before the second drug failure. Conclusions: Poor seizure outcome is generally evident from the outset in the epileptic encephalopathies such as West, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. By contrast, the appearance of intractability may be delayed in cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy. Retrospective data1 suggest that with a median follow-up of 9 years, roughly a third to half the intractable cases that might occur in the cryptogenic/symptomatic partial epilepsy group have yet to declare themselves. Only continued prospective study in the current cohort, however, will reveal the eventual true burden of intractability and its time course. REFERENCE 1.?Berg AT, et al How long does it take for partial epilepsy to become intractable Neurology, 2003;60: 186?190. (Supported by NIH RO1-NS31146.) 1 Christina A. Palmese, 1 Marla J. Hamberger, 1 David Weintraub, 2 Nikolaos Scarmeas, 1 Hyunmi Choi, and 1 Lawrence J. Hirsch ( 1 Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ; and 2 Department of Neurology and Taub Institute, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY ) Rationale: It is well established that individuals with epilepsy frequently report memory problems and show deficits on objective memory measures. In recent years, cholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil have been shown to improve memory or delay memory decline in patients with other neurological disorders (e.g., dementia, multiple sclerosis). The purpose of this double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study was to determine whether donepezil would improve memory or other cognitive functions in epilepsy patients. Methods: Twenty-three epilepsy patients with subjective memory complaints (9 simple partial, 14 complex partial or generalized; mean age: 41 SD = 9.25; 16 males, 7 females) were tested at baseline, after 3 months on donepezil, and after 3 months on placebo. Patients were randomized into two treatment groups receiving 3 months of donepezil followed by 3 months of a placebo, or vice versa. Donepezil was started at a dose of 5mg/day for 4 weeks and increased to 10mg/day for the remaining 8 weeks. Functions tested included verbal memory (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test, Medical College of Georgia (?MCG?) story memory), visual memory (MCG Figure Memory Test), Attention (Continuous Attention Test, Stroop Test), visuomotor speed (Symbol Digit Coding), and fine motor speed and dexterity (Grooved Pegboard). Subjective memory complaints, quality of life and mood were assessed with the QOLIE-31 and Profile of Mood Scale (POMS). Change scores were calculated comparing baseline with both placebo and donepezil, and these difference scores were compared via paired sample t-tests. Results: While on donepezil, patients exhibited significantly stronger performance on MCG immediate story recall (donepezil mean change: 11.08 (SD = 11.69), placebo mean change: 6.78 (SD = 10.99), p = .04). However, they also showed poorer Stroop performance (p = .02), reported lower energy and ?vigor? (p = .01), and indicated poorer ?quality of life? (p = .01) on donepezil compared to placebo. Across donepezil and placebo treatment periods, there were no significant changes in subjective memory report or in number of side effects reported while patients were on donepezil versus placebo. There were also no significant differences in seizure frequency (p = .55). No patient reported any adverse event. Conclusions: Although patients exhibited improvement in immediate memory while on donepezil, they also exhibited worsening in attention, energy and quality of life. These results suggest that donepezil does not provide significant benefit for patients with epilepsy and subjective memory impairment, though this does not rule out possible benefit in individuals. There was no effect on seizure frequency in this study. (Supported by Pfizer Inc.) 1 Alison M. Pack, 2 Martha J. Morrell, 1 Alison Randall, 1 Silvia Done, 1 Edith Flaster, and 3 Elizabeth Shane ( 1 Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY ; 2 Neurology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA ; and 3 Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: We previously reported significant bone loss at the femoral neck of the hip in women with epilepsy receiving phenytoin (PHT) when followed for 1 year longitudinally. It has been postulated that adverse effects on bone secondary to PHT treatment are a result of enzyme inducing increased metabolism of vitamin D. We hypothesized that concentrations of vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment would be significantly lower in women treated with PHT than other AEDs including carbamazepine (CBZ), valproate (VPA), and lamotrigine (LTG). Methods: Women with epilepsy aged 18?40 receiving AED monotherapy were recruited. AEDs studied were PHT, CBZ, VPA and LTG. Subjects had baseline bone mineral density (BMD) studies as assessed by DXA and serologic measurements of calcium and vitamin D metabolites (25, hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D). Subjects were followed for 1 year and repeat studies were obtained. Correlation between change in BMD and calcium and vitamin D metabolites after 1 year of treatment was evaluated. Results: Data was obtained from 66 women. There were 7 women receiving PHT, 27 receiving CBZ, 13 receiving VPA, and 19 receiving LTG. Serum calcium levels did not change significantly after 1 year of treatment in all AED treated groups. As we previously reported, baseline calcium levels were significantly lower in women treated with PHT, CBZ, and VPA compared to those treated with LTG. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations also did not change significantly in any of the AED treated groups. As we previously reported, there was no significant difference among baseline levels of 25, hydroxyvitamin D among the AED treated groups. Serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations were significantly higher after 1 year of treatment in LTG treated women (32.80 ? 39.55 pg/ml; p = 0.0067). Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT (31.10 ? 24.70 pg/ml). BMD loss at the femoral neck of the hip did not correlate with changes in calcium or vitamin D metabolite concentrations. Conclusions: Calcium and 25, hydroxyvitamin D concentrations did not change significantly in women treated with PHT, CBZ, VPA, and LTG and followed longitudinally for 1 year. Serum 25, hydroxyvitamin D is the most commonly used index of vitamin D status. Although not significant, there was a reduction in 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women treated with PHT for 1 year. BMD loss did not correlate with changes in either calcium or vitamin D metabolites. The lack of significance of these findings may in part be explained by the small sample size of the PHT treated group. However, they do suggest that previously reported bone loss in PHT treated women may not be secondary to effects on vitamin D metabolism. (Supported by GlaxoSmithKline.) 1 Douglas R. Nordli, 2 Solomon L. Moshé, 3 L. Matthew Frank, 4 John M. Pellock, 5 Darrell V. Lewis, 4 Anthony Marmarou, 6 Dale C. Hesdorffer, 2 Shlomo Shinnar, and 1?5 FEBSTAT Study Team ( 1 Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL ; 2 Montefiore, Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY ; 3 Children's Hospital of The King's Daughter, Norfolk, VA ; 4 Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA ; 5 Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC ; and 6 Columbia University, New York, NY ) Rationale: To study the role of acute EEG studies in children with febrile status epilepticus in predicting acute MRI abnormalities and later development of epilepsy and, more specifically, of subsequent mesial temporal sclerosis and temporal lobe epilepsy. Methods: As part of the multi-institutional FEBSTAT study, neurological examinations, MRIs with particualr attention to the hippocampus, and EEGs were performed within 72 hours of febrile status epilepticus in children five years of age or younger. EEGs are read by two independent readers, blinded to clinical histories, and a consensus is reached. The primary outcome measure of the ongoing FEBSTAT study is the development of MTS, clinical epilepsy, or both. The study also seeks to determine if initial imaging and EEG studies can predict outcome. Results: As of April, 2005, 75 subjects have been enrolled. Consensus readings have been performed on the first 46 EEGs. Of these, 11 (24%) showed one or more abnormality. Specific findings include the following. Nine EEGs demonstrated slowing or attenuation, which was localized to the temporal lobe in 8 cases (17%). In one circumstance the attenuation involved the entire hemisphere. Two other EEGs showed diffuse slowing only. Spikes were the exclusive abnormality in only two tracings (frontal in one, and posterior temporal in the other). Temporal lobe spikes were seen along with temporal lobe slowing in only two cases. Conclusions: Focal temporal slowing, attenuation, or both is seen in 17% of children with febrile status epilepticus indicating temporal lobe dysfunction in this group. Focal epileptiform discharges were half as common. Further analysis will determine whether the acute EEG abnormalities correlate with hippocampal T2 signal abnormalities that are being seen in a significant number of children in this cohort. Additionally, the design of the study will allow us to look at the evolution of the EEG in those children at high risk for the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. (Supported by NINDS NS43209: Consequences of Prolonged Febrile Seizures in Childhood.) 1 Stephan U. Schuele, 1 Adriana C. Bermeo, 1 Richard C. Burgess, 1 Dudley Dinner, and 1 Nancy Foldvary ( 1 Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH ) Rationale: Ictal asystole with focal epilepsy is a rare but potentially life-threatening event and is a likely contributor to sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). Risk factors allowing early detection and intervention are unknown and ictal asystole remains an incidental finding in large monitoring populations. While there have been some inconsistent correlations (such as more frequent accompaniment to left temporal lobe seizures) semiologic characteristics associated with ictal asystole have not been described, and may be helpful in screening for high risk patients. Methods: Electronic database search of all patients undergoing longterm Video-EEG monitoring between 1994 and 2005 with episodes of aystole during simultaneous ECG acquisition. Patients with asystole during non-epileptic events (e.g. syncopal events) were excluded. Results: Ictal asystole was found in seven out of 5977 patients (0.12%) and occured in 12 out of 42 (29%) of their recorded events. Two of the patients were male and five female, mean age was 28 years (range 2 to 54 years). Asystole occured on average 41 seconds (s) after EEG onset (range 3?95 s) and was in all cases preceded by sinus bradycardia. Duration of asystole averaged 17 s (range 4?33 s). Sinus rhythm recurred spontaneously in all patients without requiring cardiac resusciation. Temporal lobe epilepsy was diagnosed in five patients, in three on the right, in one on the left and in one bilateral. Asystole in this group lasted between 4.5s and 33 s. In all five patients, episodes of sudden unresponsiveness associated with manual or oral automatism were reported as typical events. During the Video-EEG monitoring in four of these five patients, the habitual semiology was followed by a pronounced sudden loss of tone and body posture coinciding with the asystole. In the one patient without noticeable loss of tone, a generalized tonic seizure lasting more than 20s occured within five seconds after onset of the asystole. All five patients underwent pacemaker implantation. Two patients had extratemporal lobe epilepsy. One suffered from axial tonic seizures associated with a regional EEG seizure pattern over the vertex. The other one had episodes of unresponsiveness and staring associated with a left hemispheric focal epilepsy. Asystole lasted between 4s and 7s and no loss of tone was noted during Video-EEG monitoring. Conclusions: Ictal aystole is a rare but potentially life-threatening event. It is most commonly seen in patients with right or left temporal lobe epilepsy. Although a history of atonia and falls is often not obtained, loss of tone and posture can frequently be seen during Video-EEG-monitoring. Drop attacks at clinical onset have been reported in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, however a delayed sudden loss of tone is distinctly uncommon and may be revealed by a detailed history. Further cardiac monitoring in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and delayed atonia or drop attacks might be warranted. 1 Gregory D. Cascino, 1 Edward M. Manno, 2 Eric A. Pfeifer, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Eelco F.M. Wijdicks ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ; and 2 Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN ) Rationale: To evaluate the incidence and significance of cardiac contraction band necrosis (CBN) in patients who die during status epilepticus (SE). CBN has been observed in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and other life-threatening neurological emergencies. Massive catecholamine release may be the mechanism of CBN and cardiac arrhythmias that occur in these individuals. Methods: We retrospectively evaluated 28 patients who were derived from 54 consecutive patients with SE who underwent an autopsy between January 1975 and December 2003. The medical and pathological records were reviewed in all patients. Twenty six individuals were excluded because of an inability to confirm the diagnosis of SE or unavailability of cardiac anatomical specimens for examination. The 28 patients were divided into two groups: Group I- Died during refractory SE (n = 11), Group II- Died remote from SE (n = 17). The cardiac pathology in the two groups was compared to 22 randomly selected individuals (control group) who died without a known history of seizures. Nonconvulsive SE was confirmed by EEG studies. One investigator (EP) blinded to the clinical history and previous pathology reports reviewed the cardiac pathology slides for CBN. Results: There were no significant differences in age, gender or history of heart disease between the three patient groups. Nine of the Group I patients had generalized convulsive SE and two patients had nonconvulsive SE. Eight of the 11 patients in Group I had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p < 0.01, Fisher's exact test). Three of 17 patients in Group II had CBN compared to 5 of 22 patients in the control group (p = 1.0, Fisher's exact test). CBN occurred more frequently in Group I patients than Group II patients (p < .01, Fisher's exact test). Conclusions: Cardiac CBN was identified in most patients in this series who died during an episode of SE. This specific anatomical pathology was uncommon in patients with a remote history of SE or an age-matched control group. This study provides compelling evidence that cardiac CBN may be a potential pathophysiology for cardiac decompensation and death in individuals with SE or seizure activity. (Supported by Mayo Foundation.) 1 Jeffrey D. Jirsch, 1 Francois Dubeau, 1 Elena Urrestarazu, 1 Pierre LeVan, and 1 Jean Gotman ( 1 Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada ) Rationale: Seizures recorded with subdural grids have demonstrated high frequency activities up to 130Hz in contacts close to the seizure focus. We report localized changes in high frequency activity during seizures in patients with temporal and extra-temporal epilepsy implanted with depth macroelectrodes. Methods: Intracranial EEGs were obtained from stereotaxically-placed depth and epidural electrodes filtered at 500Hz and sampled at 2000Hz in 8 consecutive patients. The epileptic zone was well-localized in 6 patients with 4 having mesial temporal (MT) and 2 having frontal neocortical foci with dysplastic lesions, and was regional or poorly localized in 2 others. Characteristic EEG sections lasting 3?10 s were selected within the seizures of each patient to reflect ictal onset, propagation and termination. Distinct high frequency (>100 Hz) segments were identified visually in the background and in the seizure sections by analyzing the expanded record dually with 50Hz and 100 Hz high-pass filters. Focal changes in high frequency activity during the seizure were also identified using spectral analysis by comparing section band powers (i.e. slow (0?40Hz), high frequency (HF, 100?200Hz), very high frequency (VHF, 250?500Hz)) with the background. Results: 12 seizures were analyzed from the 4 patients with MT foci, 7 from the 2 patients with neocortical foci, and 4 from the 2 patients with no definitive epileptogenic zone. Discrete, focal VHF segments were visually identified at seizure onset in 4/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone. Increased HF activity compared to the background was distinguished both visually and with spectral analysis later in the seizures of 3/4 MT patients, involving contacts in the epileptic zone and, in one patient, areas of contralateral peri-hippocampal propagation. The 2 patients with neocortical foci had increased HF activity confined to the epileptic zone late in their seizures, identified by visual and spectral analysis. No discrete HF or VHF activity was present in the poorly-localized seizures. Conclusions: VHF segments (fast ripples?) were consistently present in the epileptic zone early in seizures of patients with MT epilepsy. In contrast, HF activity was seen more prominently later in seizures, involving the epileptogenic areas of MT and neocortical patients, as well as areas of mesial temporal propagation. Changes in high frequency activity (100 to 500Hz) were absent in patients whose seizures were poorly-localized.This study demonstrates that changes in high frequency activity occur in regions of primary epileptogenesis and secondary spread in anatomically different foci. These activities may reflect focal synchronization of neuronal ensembles that are important in initiating or maintaining ictal activity. Moreover, absent high frequency activity seems to indicate poor localization. (Supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research.) 1 Heinrich Vogt, 1 Thomas Baisch, and 1 Ian W. Mothersill ( 1 Swiss Epilepsy Center, Swiss Epilepsy Center, Zuerich, Switzerland ) Rationale: The progressive myoclonus epilepsies comprise a heterogenous group of diseases wich are clinically characterised by myoclonus with variable localisation, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, progressive dementia of variable severity and neurological symptomes, usually cerebellar. It is generally accepted that the locomotory disablement is due to cerebellar ataxia. We observed that in the course of the disease negative myoclonias are one of the most striking symptom and hypothesised that they were the main reason for locomotor disability. Methods: Negative myoclonias are very difficult to recognise without ictal polygraphic recordings in freely moving patients.We performed ictal polygraphic video-EEG-recordings (16 channel EEG, 8 channel surface EMG) in 13 patients with EPM1 (Unverricht-Lundborg Disease), proven by mutation of the CSTB Gene, 1 MERFF with a mitochondrial point mutation and 2 EPM2 (Lafora disease), proven by skin biopsy. Results: All 16 patients presented with negative myoclonias of short duration either isolated or in combination with myoclonus. They were provoked by voluntary movement. The duration of the muscular atonia was between 100 and 300 ms. Except 3 patients with EPM1 all where wheelchair bound, mainly due to fear of falls, caused by the frequent muscle atonias. Conclusions: We have shown, using simultaneous EEG/EMG recordings in freely moving patients, that the locomotor disability is in fact mainly due to negative myoclonus in voluntary innervated muscles. 1 Florian Mormann, 1,2 Hannes Osterhage, 1 Ralph G. Andrzejak, 1 Christian E. Elger, and 1,2 Klaus Lehnertz ( 1 Department of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ; and 2 Helmholtz-Institute for Radiation and Nuclear Physics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany ) Rationale: The localization of the epileptic focus from intracranial EEG recordings during the interictal period (i.e., without the necessity of observing any seizures) has been a focus of research in the past years. In addition to linear and nonlinear univariate measures, bivariate measures for synchronization have been shown to be capable of correctly lateralizing the focal hemisphere in the majority of cases. A more precise localization of the focal area, however, has not been achieved. Since the pathological neurons constituting the epileptic focus are assumed to drive the surrounding tissue, we used bivariate measures of directionality to investigate the driving influence of a focal area on the surrounding regions. Methods: We analyzed intracranial EEG recordings from the seizure-free intervals of 30 patients with medically intractable medial temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing invasive presurgical diagnostics. EEG signals were recorded via bilateral intrahippocampal depth electrodes, the total recording time comprised more than 83 hours. Side of focus was assessed by complete postoperative seizure control after selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Histopathological evaluation showed hippocampal sclerosis in all cases. A measure for directionality of phase coupling was calculated for all combinations of depth electrodes within each hemisphere using a moving window technique and then averaged over time. Results: In 26 out of 30 cases, we found a distinct region in the ipsilateral hippocampal formation that drove the surrounding regions both in the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal formation. The spatial extent of this region was usually found to range between 5 and 20 mm. Conclusions: Even during the seizure-free interval, the focus appears to be driving its surrounding areas. Its influence can be seen not only on the ipsilateral, but also on the contralateral temporal lobe. Analysis using directionality measures may allow a functional delineation of the focal area during the presurgical evaluation as a prerequisite for super-selective resection in epilepsy surgery. (Supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the intramural research fund BONFOR of the University of Bonn.) 1,4 Marizabel Rozas Latorre, 1 Mark D. Holmes, 2 Micah Brown, and 2,3 Don M. Tucker ( 1 Neurology, Regional Epilepsy Center, University of Washington, Seattle, WA ; 2 Electrical Geodesic, INC., Eugene, OR ; 3 Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR ; and 4 Neurología, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Lima, Peru ) Rationale: To determine the regions of cerebral cortex activated during the onset and propagation of electroencephalographic (EEG) epileptiform patterns in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). Methods: Ten patients with the clinical diagnosis of JME were included; there were three women and seven men between 16 and 38 years of age. Standard EEG studies demonstrated generalized 4?6 Hz spike-wave or multiple spike-wave discharges. In all cases the MRI and neurological exams were normal. A dense-array, 256-channel scalp EEG recorded epileptiform discharges in each patient. Source analyses of discharges were performed in all subjects, using an equivalent dipole (BESA) and two linear inverse methods (LORETA and LAURA), with results co-registered to a standard MRI model. Results: The three methods of source analyses yielded generally convergent results. In all patients epileptiform discharges engaged orbital-frontal cortex and basal-mesial temporal regions, with the left side more often involved than the right. Activation of occipital cortex was also frequent, with occasional rapid spread to superior or mesial frontal, or parietal regions. Spike components preferentially activated orbital-frontal and temporal cortex, while slow wave elements had wider distributions over the same areas. Some variations were found in propagation patterns both within and between subjects. Conclusions: Epileptiform patterns in JME patients have both localized onsets and a restricted cortical network during propagation that consistently includes orbital-frontal and basal-mesial temporal areas, with less frequent activation of occipital cortex and other regions.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Chua, Su-Kiat
AU  - Lo, Huey-Ming
AU  - Chiu, Chiung-Zuan
AU  - Shyu, Kou-Gi
AU  - Taiwan ACS Full Spectrum Registry Investigators
C8  - NEP-2015-0518.R2
TI  - Prognostic impact of renal dysfunction in patients with acute coronary syndrome—role beyond the CHA2DS2-VASc score: Data from Taiwan acute coronary syndrome full spectrum registry
JO  - Nephrology
JA  - Nephrology
VL  - 21
IS  - 7
SN  - 1320-5358
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/nep.12653
DO  - doi:10.1111/nep.12653
SP  - 583
EP  - 591
KW  - CHA2DS2-VASc score
KW  - death
KW  - myocardial infarction
KW  - Renal dysfunction
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Aim CHA2DS2-VASc score has been proven to have great prognostic value in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We aimed to determine whether the addition of renal dysfunction in the CHA2DS2-VASc score would improve the prognostic impact of the scoring system to predict prognosis among ACS patients. Methods A total of 3031 ACS patients were prospectively enrolled at 39 hospitals and followed for 1 year. The patients were divided into three groups based on estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (group 1, eGFR>90; group 2, eGFR between 60 and 90; and group 3, eGFR<60 mL/min per 1.73 m2). The occurrence of subsequent myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, or death was recorded. Results As renal function progressively decreased from group 1 to 3, the patients were, respectively older and had higher incidence of comorbidity, worse Killip classification, and less evidence-based medical therapies. The rate of subsequent MI, stroke or death increased from 3.4% in group 1 to 7.4% in group 2 and 17.2% in group 3 (P?< 0.001). Renal dysfunction (eGFR<60 mL/min per 1.73 m2) and CHA2DS2-VASc scores were both significant predictors of adverse events in multivariable regression analyses. Renal dysfunction can further stratify patients with CHA2DS2-VASc score of 0 or 1 into 3 groups with different adverse event rates (group 1, 3.0%; group 2, 4.1%; and group 3, 9.2%, P?< 0.001). A new scoring system (R-CHA2DS2-VASc score) derived by assigning one more point for eGFR ≤ 60 mL/min per 1.73 m2 to the CHA2DS2-VASc score could improve its predictive accuracy (area under the receiver operating curve, 0.70 vs. 0.66, P?< 0.001). Conclusions Renal dysfunction is a significant risk factor of future adverse events in ACS patients and may improve the prognostic impact of the CHA2DS2-VASc score.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Stafford, Marshall
AU  - Weitzel, Nathaen
TI  - Point of Care Testing in Cardiac Surgery: Diagnostic Modalities to Assess Coagulation and Platelet Function
JO  - Drug Development Research
JA  - Drug Dev. Res.
VL  - 74
IS  - 7
SN  - 0272-4391
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/ddr.21099
DO  - doi:10.1002/ddr.21099
SP  - 418
EP  - 427
KW  - point of care testing
KW  - coagulation
KW  - platelet function
PY  - 2013
AB  - Abstract Preclinical Research Point of Care testing in the perioperative arena is a high priority topic, specifically in cardiac surgery where a majority of perioperative blood transfusions occur. Platelet function in particular is of interest in cardiac surgery as cardiopulmonary bypass itself creates known platelet dysfunction, but also because more and more patients are on antiplatelet agents due to coronary stenting procedures. This review will focus on presenting current data relating to platelet function in the perioperative setting, along with a brief review of general coagulation concepts.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Hermann, Robert
AU  - Derendorf, Hartmut
AU  - von Richter, Oliver
AU  - Rostami-Hodjegan, Amin
TI  - Core Entrustable Professional Activities in Clinical Pharmacology: Pearls for Clinical Practice
JO  - The Journal of Clinical Pharmacology
JA  - The Journal of Clinical Pharmacology
VL  - 58
IS  - 6
SN  - 0091-2700
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jcph.1088
DO  - doi:10.1002/jcph.1088
SP  - 704
EP  - 716
PY  - 2018
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Palani Velu, Lavanniya K.
AU  - Chandrabalan, Vishnu V.
AU  - Jabbar, Salman
AU  - McMillan, Donald C.
AU  - McKay, Colin J.
AU  - Carter, C. Ross
AU  - Jamieson, Nigel B.
AU  - Dickson, Euan J.
TI  - Serum amylase on the night of surgery predicts clinically significant pancreatic fistula after pancreaticoduodenectomy
JO  - HPB
JA  - HPB
VL  - 16
IS  - 7
SN  - 1365-182X
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/hpb.12184
DO  - doi:10.1111/hpb.12184
SP  - 610
EP  - 619
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Objectives Drainage after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) remains controversial because the risk for uncontrolled postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) must be balanced against the potential morbidity associated with prolonged and possibly unnecessary drainage. This study investigated the utility of the level of serum amylase on the night of surgery [postoperative day (PoD) 0 serum amylase] to predict POPF. Methods A total of 185 patients who underwent PD were studied. Occurrences of POPF were graded using the International Study Group on Pancreatic Fistula (ISGPF) classification. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis identified a threshold value of PoD?0 serum amylase associated with clinically significant POPF (ISGPF Grades B and C) in a test cohort (n = 45). The accuracy of this threshold value was then tested in a validation cohort (n = 140). Results Overall, 43 (23.2%) patients developed clinically significant POPF. The threshold value of PoD?0 serum amylase for the identification of clinically significant POPF was ≥130?IU/l (P = 0.003). Serum amylase of <130?IU/l had a negative predictive value of 88.8% for clinically significant POPF (P < 0.001). Serum amylase of ≥130?IU/l on PoD?0 and a soft pancreatic parenchyma were independent risk factors for clinically significant POPF. Conclusions Postoperative day 0 serum amylase of <130?IU/l allows for the early and accurate categorization of patients at least risk for clinically significant POPF and may identify patients suitable for early drain removal.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Kittelsen, Sverre A. C.
AU  - Anthun, Kjartan S.
AU  - Goude, Fanny
AU  - Huitfeldt, Ingrid M. S.
AU  - Häkkinen, Unto
AU  - Kruse, Marie
AU  - Medin, Emma
AU  - Rehnberg, Clas
AU  - Rättö, Hanna
AU  - on behalf of the EuroHOPE study group
TI  - Costs and Quality at the Hospital Level in the Nordic Countries
JO  - Health Economics
JA  - Health Econ.
VL  - 24
IS  - S2
SN  - 1057-9230
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/hec.3260
DO  - doi:10.1002/hec.3260
SP  - 140
EP  - 163
KW  - international comparisons
KW  - quality
KW  - outcomes
KW  - performance
KW  - productivity
PY  - 2015
AB  - Abstract This article develops and analyzes patient register-based measures of quality for the major Nordic countries. Previous studies show that Finnish hospitals have significantly higher average productivity than hospitals in Sweden, Denmark, and Norway and also a substantial variation within each country. This paper examines whether quality differences can form part of the explanation and attempts to uncover quality?cost trade-offs. Data on costs and discharges in each diagnosis-related group for 160 acute hospitals in 2008?2009 were collected. Patient register-based measures of quality such as readmissions, mortality (in hospital or outside), and patient safety indices were developed and case-mix adjusted. Productivity is estimated using bootstrapped data envelopment analysis. Results indicate that case-mix adjustment is important, and there are significant differences in the case-mix adjusted performance measures as well as in productivity both at the national and hospital levels. For most quality indicators, the performance measures reveal room for improvement. There is a weak but statistical significant trade-off between productivity and inpatient readmissions within 30 days but a tendency that hospitals with high 30-day mortality also have higher costs. Hence, no clear cost?quality trade-off pattern was discovered. Patient registers can be used and developed to improve future quality and cost comparisons. Copyright ? 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - Nursing/Psychosocial/Health Services
JO  - Epilepsia
VL  - 46
IS  - s8
SN  - 0013-9580
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.460801_3.x
SP  - 14
EP  - 23
PY  - 2005
AB  - 1 Melanie A. Adams, 1 Bradley V. Vaughn, and 1 Megdad M. Zaatreh ( 1 Dept. of Neurology, Univ. of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC ) Rationale: Seizure control in epilepsy has been thought to be the primary goal for both patients and clinicians. However, practitioners may not be fully aware of what goals epilepsy patients truly wish to attain. We surveyed epilepsy patients in our clinic and asked them to list their primary goal for treatment of their epilepsy. We also considered how treatment regimen and seizure frequency may influence a patient's goals. Methods: We surveyed 48 patients in our Epilepsy Clinic at the University of North Carolina and asked them to list their primary goal for their epilepsy treatment, the number of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) they used, and their seizure frequency. Results: Forty-eight patients with a mean age of 41.3 years completed the survey and 32 were female. The subjects averaged taking 2 antiepileptic drugs and had an average seizure frequency of one seizure per month. We grouped the patients by number of AEDs used and seizure frequency. We found that patients who were using two or more antiepileptic drugs were more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 19% of patients taking one AED listed seizure control as their primary goal, but 75% of patients taking two AEDs listed seizure control as their goal and 93% of patients taking three AEDs listed seizure control as their goal. Additionally, patients that had a higher seizure frequency were also more likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. When looking at seizure frequency, 69% of patients who had more frequent seizures (seizures occurring at least once per month) listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. All of the patients (n = 4) who had more than one seizure per week, but less than one seizure per day, listed seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. Only 40% of patients who had been seizure-free for one year or longer listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. Conclusions: In our study we found that most of our epilepsy patients listed seizure control as their primary treatment goal. However, we found that patients who were taking more antiepileptic medications and had a higher seizure frequency were most likely to list seizure control as their primary goal. This may indicate that patients are willing to use more than one AED for seizure control despite the risk of an increase in side effects from the combination of medications. Additionally, we found that patients who were using one AED and had fewer seizures were least likely to list seizure control as their primary goal for treatment. This highlights the importance of communication between patients who have seizures and the practitioners who treat them to establish a treatment plan that can insure compliance from the patient, especially if the patient has refractory seizures. 1 Marlene Blackman, 1,2 Elaine Wirrell, and 1,2 Lorie Hamiwka ( 1 Pediatric Neurology, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada ; and 2 Pediatrics and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy have greater behavior problems than healthy controls. Both intractability and mental handicap predict greater risk. Methods: Cohort study of 58 children aged 4?17 years with epilepsy attending a tertiary care pediatric neurology clinic. Parent-completed Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) subscores were compared between children with and without refractory epilepsy (defined as failure of >2 AEDs and seizures ≥ q3monthly over the past year) and with and without mental handicap using the Mann-Whitney U test. Results: 58 children were surveyed, 21 with refractory epilepsy (4 normal cognition, 17 mental handicap) and 37 with non-refractory epilepsy (22 normal cognition, 15 mental handicap). Groups did not differ significantly with respect to age or gender. Those with refractory epilepsy scored significantly higher (more abnormal) on the Social Problems (p < 0.05) and Attention Problems (p < 0.02) subscales of the CBCL. Those with mental handicap scored significantly higher on the Withdrawn (p < 0.001), Social Problems (p < 0.00001), Thought Problems (p < 0.00005), Attention Problems (p < 0.00001) and Aggressive Behavior (p < 0.02) subscales. Conclusions: While children with refractory epilepsy have greater behavior problems as indicated by the Social Problems and Attention Problems subscales, co-morbid cognitive impairment appears to be even more predictive of poor behavioral outcome in children with epilepsy. 1 Janice M. Buelow, 1 Joan K. Austin, 1 Angela M. McNelis, and 1 Cheryl P. Shore ( 1 School of Nursing, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Parents of children with epilepsy and Intellectual Disability (ID) report that their children have significant behavior problems. Past research shows that the level of family stress and child behavior problems are related, however the nature of this relationship is not well understood. In order to better understand the complex interaction of family stress and child behavior problems, this study describes the behavior problems of children with epilepsy and ID and parental perception of their child's behavior problems. Methods: Qualitative naturalistic inquiry was used to describe naturally occurring phenomena. Participants were 20 parents of children (9?16 years, mean = 12.2) who had at least two seizures a year or were on anti-epilepsy medications, and had an IQ between 55 and 75. Open-ended interviews were conducted with parents to explore the problems they experienced while raising their children. Interviews lasted about 1 hour, were tape recorded and transcribed verbatim. Each interview was analyzed for within-case themes. After interviews were analyzed individually, themes were compared across cases to identify commonalities. Two researchers reviewed each interview and agreement was reached on themes Results: The most common problem behaviors were: (1) attention problems, (2) inappropriate behavior in public including temper tantrums, (3) poor socialization skills including inability to make friends, and (4) violent behavior including injuries to self and others. Parent themes regarding behavior were (1) I recognize and can manage my child's behavior, (2) my child's behaviors are just part of life, (3) my child's behaviors problems are because of others' actions and (4) my child's behavior problems are a result of seizures. Only one family out of 20 stated that there were no behavior problems. Conclusions: This study describes specific behavior problems that children experience and parental perceptions regarding the behavior. Child behaviors ranged from attention problems to violent behavior and family themes ranged from recognition of the problem to blaming the problem on outside events. Future studies should address the underlying causes of the behavior problems in these children with the goal of intervening to reduce or eliminate these problem areas. In addition, clinicians should be assessing for behavior problems in children with epilepsy and low IQ. (Supported by NR 04536 and NR 005035v 1 Kami D. Clark, 1 Steve S. Chung, and 1 David M. Treiman ( 1 Epilepsy Program, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: The number of medication and treatment options for the 2.3 million epilepsy patients in the U.S. in increasing. Understanding treatment regimens including medications and diagnostic testing is crucial for epilepsy patients. In addition, accurately conveying information concerning adverse effects of antiepileptic medications is critical. A lack of understanding or education may adversely effect medication compliance and treatment efficacy. Returning the phone calls of patients with questions is an important but often a time-consuming and costly task for healthcare providers. We analyzed patient care related phone calls to try to identify ways in which patient education could be improved. Therefore, reducing the frequency of phone queries from patients. Methods: We evaluated all patient care related phone calls received by the epilepsy nurse practitioner in the Barrow Neurological Institute Adult Epilepsy Clinic from December 2004 through April 2005. A total of 209 calls were evaluated. These calls excluded patients calling to request medication refills or appointments, and any call not placed by an epilepsy patient or his/her caregiver. Results: The 209 patient phone calls were divided into eight categories. Medication related questions accounted for 34.4% (72) of all calls. Reporting breakthrough seizures, 32.5% (68), queries regarding lab/test results, 8.6% (18), work/disability issues, 8.2% (17), other health related questions, 8.2% (17), OTC medication questions, 4.8% (10), other epilepsy treatment options, 1.9% (4), and 1.4% (3) called the clinic to report doing well. We reviewed common questions of epilepsy patients who call the epilepsy clinic so that we may redirect education efforts. The most common call received was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects, new onset of symptoms, and medication titration and weaning schedules. Although, initial in-office medication education and written titration schedules were provided for all these patients, almost thirty five percent required additional education or clarification via time consuming telephone conversations. Conclusions: The most common call received to our clinic was medication related. These calls included questions concerning side effects (44) and verifying medication titration and weaning schedules (28). In order to optimize patient care and patient empowerment, our study indicates that the development of clearly written medication side effect profiles and medication titration and weaning schedules may improve patient care and reduce incoming phone calls. 1 B. M. Corbett, 1 S. L. Hanson, 1 N. F. Lendzion, 1 T. B. Pipe, 1 J. J. Bortz, 1 J. F. Drazkowski, 1 J. I. Sirven, 1 L. C. Helepololei, 1 J. M. Muccioli, 1 L. M. Tapsell, 1 L. M. Autry, 1 D. L. Shulman, 1 J. K. Gerke, and 1 R. S. Zimmerman ( 1 5 West, Mayo Clinic Hospital, Scottsdale, AZ ) Rationale: At MCH, a select number of patients with medically intractable seizures undergo diagnostic admissions involving subtraction ictal SPECT co-registered to MRI (SISCOM). The timeliness and efficiency of radioisotope injection is crucial to the potential identification of epileptogenic foci. The optimum results yielded by this procedure requires timing of radioisotope injection to be as close to seizure onset as possible. However, little is known about factors that facilitate or hinder the efficiency of ictal injections. Our pilot study is an important first step in gathering objective data regarding facilitators and barriers to efficient radioisotope administration. Methods: A focus-group questionnaire was distributed to the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit (EMU) nursing staff in order to identify key factors related to injection response time. From this data, an item checklist was derived and subsequently used to evaluate a retrospective series of 16 consecutive radioisotope injections. Eight of these cases fell within 60 seconds of seizure onset. Eight injections occurred after the 60-second cutoff. Videotapes of each injection were independently reviewed by raters blind to response time. Results: Results revealed timing efficiency was significantly related to a higher number of staff assisting in the procedure (?2= 11.20, p = .01). Although not statistically significant, a trend regarding an inverse relationship between gloving time and injection efficiency was evidenced. Other variables, including patient responsiveness, amount of environmental clutter, and the number of SISCOM patients on the unit were not related to time between seizure onset and injection. Conclusions: This pilot study is part of a broader investigation that includes prospective data derived from a larger group of study patients. Initial results identified a positive relationship between the number of staff available to assist in the procedure and the timing efficiency of SISCOM injections. These data may reflect several factors, including 1) efficacy of teamwork required to stabilize and prepare patients for injection and 2) increased consensus regarding the appropriateness of injection. The data also suggests gloving in advance, rather than at the time of seizure onset, facilitates speed of injection. Finally, these data may have important implications in the evaluation of acuity and staffing levels for patients undergoing ictal SPECT studies. 1 Sandra M. Cushner-Weinstein, 1 Leslie Bethke-Pope, 2 Jay Salpekar, 1 William D. Gaillard, 1 Phillip L. Pearl, 1 Marian Kolodgie, 1 Audrey Scully, 1 Joan Conry, and 1 Steve L. Weinstein ( 1 Neurology, Children's National Medical Center, George Washington University, Washington, DC ; and 2 Psychiatry, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC ) Rationale: Camps developed for children with epilepsy were questioned to evaluate change in design, goals, and programs from the years 2001 to 2005. The expectation was to find an increase in condition specific camps, common identified goals, and the number of individuals with epilepsy in leadership roles. Camps were compared for similarities and differences. Methods: In 2001, thirty-one camps for children with epilepsy received telephone interviews comprised of thirty-eight questions. In 2005, twenty-five camps for children with epilepsy received a questionnaire by mail or e-mail and phone contact for clarification. The thirty-eight questions in 2001 were reduced to twenty questions in 2005, based on the original questions and answers. Included in the questions were camp designs, goals, composition and age of campers, schedules, opportunities for camper advancement, return rates, percentage of staff with epilepsy, co-morbidities, and staff to camper ratio. Results: From 2001 to 2005, three primary designs of camps continue to exist with a shift towards condition specific camps. The designs include camps for children diagnosed with epilepsy, for family member(s) and campers with epilepsy, and integrated or mainstream camps. Over four years, the number of camps increased serving children with epilepsy only, 54% (2001) to 60% (2005), and serving children with epilepsy and family members, 3% (2001) to 24% (2005). Also a decrease in the number of integrated camps from 19% (2001) to 16% (2005) was found. Other findings include in 2001, 50% of the camps did not have counselors with epilepsy while in 2005, 65% did; however, 20% had less than 10% of counselors with epilepsy. Only 52% of camps in 2001 offered opportunities for campers to advance to leadership roles (counselors in training or assistants) and there was an increase (64%) in 2005. Also in 2005, 65% of the camps selected socialization, independence, and self-esteem as their top three camper benefits and goals, while in 2001, less than 35% of the camps identified socialization and self-esteem as benefits or goals. Conclusions: The percentage of condition specific camps serving children with epilepsy and epilepsy and family member(s) increased over four years, as did the opportunities for campers to advance in leadership roles. It is important for camps serving children with epilepsy to question their design and implement programs to support and promote goals. 1 Kirsti J. Dahlen, 1 Torunn Erichsen, and 1 Siv Skarstein ( 1 Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; Science, Education and Competence, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway; and Administration, National Centre for Epilepsy, Sandvika, Baerum Postterminal, Norway ) Rationale: Over the past decades a change in paradigm has taken place from seeing the patient as a passive receiver of treatment, till todays focus on empowerment and individual rehabilitation prosesses. A multidiciplinary educational programme for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation was established at the National Centre for Epilepsy in Norway in 2003. This educational programme focuses on two main subjects: Evidence based treatment and care within epilepsy and the rehabilitation prosess, including multidiciplinary communication and cooperation, and patient autonomy. The education takes place at the epilepsy centre and the syllabus is developed in close collaboration with a local university college. The students meet five sessions per year, each session lasting four days. The programme includes lectures, tutoring and group work. In this study, we have assessed the satisfaction among the students who completed the programme in 2003/4 and 2004/5. Methods: All 31 students participating in course l (2003/4) and course 2 (2004/5) answered a standardized evaluation questionnaire. The questionnaire contained 7 questiones with five alternative answers, scaled from 1 (bad) to 5 (very good). 18 of the students attending the educational programme were registered nurses and 13 were registered nurses for the mentally subnormal. 14 were fulltime employed within community based service and 17 fulltime employed within specialist service. Results: 31 students have completed the courses so far. Evaluation of satisfaction with the programme in each session shows that all 31 students scored from good to very good. Evaluation according to relevance of the main learning objects for the education and the use of internal lectures from the centre, showed similar results. Student satisfaction regarding lectures and group work within epileptology showed a higher score than within rehabilitation. Conclusions: A multidiciplinary education for professionals working with epilepsy and rehabilitation seems to be of importance for the participants. The syllabus is evaluated to be relevant for the purpose of this education. A pedagogical challenge is how to merge the two main objects. 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 1,2 Priscila Barioni Salgado, 1,2 Ana Lúcia Andrade Noronha, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, UNICAMP, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ; and 2 Psychology, ASPE, Campinas, S?o Paulo, Brazil ) Rationale: The purpose of this study is to estimate the magnitude of epilepsy stigma in four cities in the southern region of Brazil, a limited-resource country. Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional population-based study in Campinas, a large city with ?1 million inhabitants in the southeast of Brazil. We applied Stigma Scale of Epilepsy (SSE) in 1.850 people from all the regions within the city following a sampling selection methodology (95% confidence interval and error of 2.3%). In order to assess whether there is a regional difference in degree of epilepsy stigma, we applied SSE in a random selected people on the streets during the II National Week of Epilepsy in other three cities; Vila Velha, Curitiba, and S?o Paulo. SSE consists of 10 questions that provide a total score ranging from 0 (no stigma) to 100 (highest level of stigma). SSE was developed and validated by our group and showed high internal consistency (α Cronbach's coefficient = 0.81). Sample size required for assessing group differences using SSE is 47 subjects (r = 0,40; alpha = 0,05 [IC = 95%]; beta = 0,20). Results: The mean age of the subjects (53% women) was 39 years (range from 12 to 90 years) in Campinas. The mean SSE score was 42 (range from 3 to 98; SD = 14). Women had SSE score higher (43) than men (40) (t-test [1848]= 5.42; p < 0.001). In regard to religion, spiritism had lowest level of SSE score (35); (ANOVA [4,1845]= 4.4; p = 0.0015, Tukey's: spiritism<catholic = evangelic = others = no religion). Level of education showed inverse relation to SSE scores, illiterate people had higher level of SSE score (45) than people with university degree (37) (ANOVA [4,1845]= 16.3; p < 0.0001). In other three cities, it was applied 209 questionnaires (Curitiba = 83 subjects, S?o Paulo = 47, Vila Velha = 79). The mean SSE (95% Confidence interval) score were different among four cities: Campinas = 42 (95%CI = 41?43); Vila Velha = 42 (95%CI = 39?45); Curitiba = 49 (95%CI = 46?52); S?o Paulo = 53 (95%CI = 48?58). Conclusions: Our study showed that there are differences in the perception of stigma in different societies in the same country. The magnitude of stigma is different within segment a society, highlighting that sociocultural factors, such as gender, religion, and level of education are important predictors of stigma. Mass media campaign should target these social segments to fight prejudice and improve social acceptance of people with epilepsy. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Patricia Fischer ( 1 Department of Pharmacy Practice, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL ) Rationale: Developing a seizure emergency treatment plan enables efficient management of seizure emergencies and decreases the potential for seizure-related complications. Individualized treatment plans provide for more patient and caregiver control in seizure emergencies, minimize the effect seizures have in the workplace or at school, and may reduce the need for access to emergency medical care. Recent emphasis has been placed on seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children; however, adults who experience seizures would also benefit from a predetermined course of action for seizure emergencies. Methods: A comprehensive review of the components associated with seizure emergency treatment plans for school-aged children, along with a literature review and clinical experience with adult patients with seizures, revealed that a seizure emergency treatment plan for adults would be a practical and comprehensive adjunctive treatment approach. The unique needs of adult patients were taken into consideration to develop a protocol for designing seizure emergency treatment plans for an adult population. Results: A 5-phase protocol to develop seizure emergency treatment plans for adult patients with seizures was created. In Phase I, patients who would benefit from plan development are identified; patients who require emergency medical transport for prolonged seizure episodes, patients whose antiepileptic drug regimen is being changed, and patients who are severely affected by their seizure activity are candidates. In Phase II, key plan components are identified, including seizure presentation and history, recognition of seizure emergencies, seizure first aid, and caretaker designation. If emergency seizure treatment includes seizure rescue medication, diazepam rectal gel (Diastat?) information (eg, administration instructions, time to stop seizures, instructions regarding repeat dosing, patient care) is delineated. In Phase III, specific steps needed to implement the plan are addressed, including caregiver education, use in patient-specific environments (eg, at work, while traveling), and removal of perceived obstacles to success. In Phase IV, efficacy, safety, ease of implementation, and patient and caregiver satisfaction with the plan are evaluated. Phase V allows for plan modification based on the evaluation as well as changes in seizure presentation and patient physical characteristics. Conclusions: Adult patients who experience seizures have unique treatment needs that warrant the development and implementation of individualized seizure emergency treatment plans for optimal management of seizure activity. (Supported by Valeant Pharmaceuticals.) 1 Laura H. Goldstein, 2 Leah Holland, 2 Helen Soteriou, and 2 John D.C. Mellers ( 1 Psychology, PO 77, Institute of Psychiatry, London, United Kingdom ; and 2 Neuropsychiatry, Maudsley Hospital, London, United Kingdom ) Rationale: Whilst psychosocial well-being in people with epilepsy is thought to be related to styles of coping, less is known about the relationship between the way people with epilepsy perceive their illness (i.e. their illness representations) and their psychological state. Similarly, little is known about the extent to which illness representations are related to coping strategies when predicting outcome measures such as mood. Therefore, this study set out to extend what is known about predictors of anxiety and depression symptoms in adults with chronic epilepsy. Methods: Forty-three adults with chronic epilepsy attending out-patient hospital clinics completed the Illness Perception Questionnaire, the Ways of Coping Scale and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Recent seizure frequency was noted, as were patients' seizure types and age at onset of their epilepsy. Results: Whilst epilepsy variables (seizure frequency, age at seizure onset and number of seizure types) were not significantly related to mood, having also adjusted for gender within multiple regression analyses, an increased use of escape-avoidance and a decreased use of distancing as coping strategies best predicted patients' anxiety scores. In addition to the use of escape-avoidant coping, depression scores were also best predicted by the use of self-controlling coping strategies. After accounting for coping styles, anxiety scores were independently predicted by Illness Identity scores (i.e. the number of symptoms that patients associated with their seizures); this indicated that coping was not simply mediating the impact of illness representations on patients' mood. In contrast, no measure of illness representations independently predicted depression scores. Conclusions: Our results highlight the potential relevance of epilepsy patients' cognitive representations of their illness (and in particular patients' beliefs concerning Illness Identity), as well as their coping styles in determining their psychological well-being. Such factors may also be of importance when studying aspects of their health-related behaviour. 1 Andres M. Kanner, 1 Joanne Wuu, 2 Bruce Hermann, 3 Kimford Meador, 4 Frank Gilliam, and 5 John Barry ( 1 Neurological Sciences, Rush Medical College, Chicago, IL ; 2 Neurology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison, WI ; 3 Neurology, University of Florida School of Medicine, Gainsville, FL ; 4 Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, New York, NY ; and 5 Psychiatry, Stanford Univesrity School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA ) Rationale: In patients with epilepsy (PWE) up to 50% of depressive episodes are atypical as they fail to meet any of the diagnostic criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV). Their semiology tends to be similar to dysthymic disorders and can therefore be referred as Dysthymic-like Disorders of Epilepsy (DLDE). The purpose of this study was to identify the most frequent symptoms of DLDE that could be used in the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. Methods: First phase: Sample A: 205 consecutive PWE from five outpatient epilepsy clinics underwent structured psychiatric interviews with two validated instruments used to identify Axis I diagnoses, according to the DSM-IV criteria (the Structured Clinical Interview for Axis I DSM-IV Disorders [SCID] and the Minin International Neuropsychiatric Inventory) and completed a 46 item instrument, the Mood and Anxiety Symptoms in Epilepsy (MASE), integrated by symptoms of depression (n = 16), anxiety (n = 11), irritability (n = 9), socialization difficulties (n = 5), increased energy (n = 3) and physical symptoms (n = 2). Each item inquires on the presence of a symptom for the last two weeks and is rated on a 4 Lickert Scale (1 [not at all] to 4 [all the time]) and was completed twice, two weeks apart. The MASE has a high internal consistency with a Chronbach alpha of 0.96. Among the 205 patients, 52 failed to meet any diagnostic criteria on the SCID and MINI but had a mean of 17.7 ± 7 positive symptoms (rated as 3 [some of the time] or 4 [all of the time]) on the MASE. Thirteen symptoms were identified by more than 50% of these patients. Second phase: The presence of these 13 symptoms was investigated in a second sample, of 159 PWE and a DLDE (Sample B) who underwent an evaluation with the same psychiatric instruments. Results: Among the 13 symptoms identified in > 50% of sample A patients (see below), 11 were identified in > 50% of sample B patients. These included: feel like crying (52%), disappointed (70%), moody (75%), worried (69%), tense (68%), get impatient easily (72%), agitated (55%), frustrated (65%), irritable and cranky (65%), prefer to be alone (62%), and tired (74%). Two symptoms identified in more than 50% in sample A but not in sample B included: angry and racing thoughts. Conclusions: DLDE is a pleomorphic mood disorder with symptoms of depression, anxiety and irritability. These 11 items are being evaluated for the development of a screening diagnostic instrument. (Supported by Glaxo-Smith-Kline.) 1,2 Ana Lucia Andrade Noronha, 2 Moacir Alves Borges, 2 Lucia Neves Marques, 4 Dirce Trevisan Zanetta, 1,2 Paula Teixeira Fernandes, 5 Hanneke De Boer, 6 Javier Espindola, 6 Claudio Miranda, 7 Josemir W. Sander, 8 Leonid Prilipko, and 1,2 Li Min Li ( 1 Neurology, Faculty of Medicine - UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 2 EDUCATION, ASPE, Campinas, SP, Brazil ; 3 Neurology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 4 Epidemiology, FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil ; 5 Secretariat, Global Campaign Against Epilepsy ; 6 Pan-American Health Organization ; 7 Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom ; and 8 World Health Organization, Switzerland ) Rationale: The worldwide prevalence of epilepsy has been estimated to be around 10/1,000; however, the access to treatment is quite variable. Many people go untreated, particularly in resource poor countries, which may add to the cumulative prevalence of epilepsy in these countries. This study had an objective to estimate the prevalence of epilepsy and the proportion of people not receiving adequate treatment in different socio-economic classes in Brazil, a resource poor country. Methods: We conducted a door-to-door community survey to assess the prevalence and treatment gap of epilepsy (corrected for socio-economic status) in three areas of two cities (Campinas and S?o José do Rio Preto[SJRP]) in the southeast of Brazil. The total population studied in these three areas was 96,300 people. We applied a validated epidemiological questionnaire with sensitivity 95.8% and specificity 97.8% for epilepsy screening, and a neurologist further ascertained the positive cases. We applied a validated questionnaire based on household possessions inventory for socio-economic classification that ranges from Class A (highest) to E (lowest). We defined adequate epilepsy treatment as regular use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) at standard dosage. Results: The cumulative prevalence was 9.1/1,000 people. The estimated prevalence of active epilepsy was 5.3/1,000 people. The prevalence of active epilepsy was higher in the more deprived social classes in Campinas (Class D+E = 8.1/1,000 [95%CI = 4.4?11.9] vs. Class A = 1.6/1,000 [0.4?2.9]) and in SJRP (Class D+E = 7.3/1,000 [5.7?8.9] vs. Class B = 3.1/1,000 [1.5?4.7]). Thirty-seven percent of patients with active epilepsy had inadequate treatment, including 19% who were not on any medication; the figures were similar in the different socio-economic groups. Conclusions: The prevalence of epilepsy in Brazil is similar to other resource-poor countries, and the treatment gap is high. We studied the differences in the social classes for prevalence and treatment gap, and the poorer classes had higher prevalence than the richest ones, while treatment gap is similar. Commitment of the health system towards improvement of the quality of health management for people with epilepsy and consistent and regular AED supply is needed. (Supported by FAPESP.) 1 Roy C. Martin, 1 Russell H. Fushee, 1 Edward Faught, 1 Robert C. Knowlton, and 1 Laura K. Vogtle ( 1 Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL ) Rationale: Driving restrictions play a central role in the quality of life in patients with epilepsy (PWE). Neurologists as well as other physician groups bear considerable responsibility for decisions about driving privileges in PWE. However, little is known about how neurologist's attitudes compare to other physician groups. The purpose of this survey was to compare practices and beliefs across physician subspecialties that treat PWE. Methods: A sample of 209 physicians (Neurologists = 56; non-neurologists (NN) = Family Practice and Internal Medicine physicians = 133 and Other/unspecified = 20) completed a 28-item survey related to driving issues and epilepsy. Surveys were completed through fax technology that met IRB approval. A random geographic sampling of 1400 physicians, obtained through a commercial provider, were faxed the survey. A 19% response rate was achieved. Some neurologists completed the survey during a regional epilepsy conference (21 of 48 conference attendees). Results: All practitioners treated PWE and nearly 100% of those surveyed felt driving should be allowed with seizure control. Both groups felt that 6 months seizure-free was an appropriate limit for reinstatement of driving privileges. NNs were more likely to oppose allowing people with uncontrolled seizures to drive (99% vs. 92%; p < .01). NNs were more likely to oppose people with uncontrolled seizures having driver's licenses when the seizures did not result in the loss of consciousness (85% vs. 61%; p < .001), when seizures occurred nocturnally (72% vs. 45%; p < .001), and more likely to agree that states should set a minimum time for PWE to be seizure free before allowing a driver's license (96% vs. 80%; p < .005). NNs were more likely to support mandatory reporting of patient seizure information to state motor vehicle departments (90% vs. 36%; p < .001). Neurologists were more likely to have had PWE report an automobile accident due to a seizure, (72% vs. 33%; p < .001), more likely to have suspected that PWEs had an unreported automobile accident due to a seizure (60% vs. 39%; p < .01), and to have had PWE give justifications for having to drive (75% vs. 58%; p < .05). Conclusions: Neurologists and NNs expressed several similar opinions regarding the importance of physician assistance in evaluating driving issues in PWE and the need for driving restrictions under certain circumstances. However, they differed in terms of specific areas including mandatory reporting and obtaining a drivers license under certain conditions. Although neurologists have had more patients involved in automobile accidents, NNs were generally more restrictive in their support for driving by PWE. This survey highlights the need for continued epilepsy-specific education outreach efforts directed at the non-neurology medical community. (Supported by the Special Interest Project from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention awarded through the UAB Center for Health Promotion.) 1 Louise Mc Quaid, 1 Colin Doherty, 1 Tony Kenny, 1 Norman Delanty, and 1 Mary Fitzsimons ( 1 Epilepsy Programme, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland ) Rationale: Electronic health (eHealth) services have the potential to enhance epilepsy care by improving integration of health services. Electronic patient records (EPR) provide basic infrastructure for eHealth services. An EPR supports pre-service, point-of-service and after-service enhancements for all stakeholders ? patients and their carers, clinicians, health researchers and healthcare managers. EPR's facilitate the continuity of patient care both within and across healthcare organisation boundaries as simultaneous and/or remote access by multiple users is possible. Data protection and security is enhanced with an audit trail of all accesses to the record which is role-based and limited to authorised and authenticated users. An EPR supports health service monitoring, planning, and health research as it provides ready access to large volumes of integrated, harmonised and consistent patient data. While the potential benefits of EPR's are clear, their design, development and implementation represent a socio-technical challenge. The epilepsy programme at Beaumont Hospital aims to design, develop and implement a standards based secure EPR to support epilepsy clinical services and research activities. Methods: System design involved a qualitative study to determine user and domain requirements, data protection, security and training requirements, and to inform software engineers. Study subjects included potential users of the EPR ? epileptologists, NCHDs, epilepsy nurses and the epilepsy clinic administrator. Data collection Multi-stage interviews following a Delphi technique were conducted with potential users; ethnographic fieldwork was conducted to observe users in the environment where the EPR will be used. Results: Data collected were used to establish the granularity of field requirements for the EPR; process-mapping was conducted to illustrate the workflows that the EPR would support; a set of use-cases, or sequence of transactions, required for effective interaction between users and the EPR was determined The technical development of the EPR is based on international healthcare standards. It has two components, one which manages generic patient information and one that manages epilepsy specific information. The system architecture can therefore be applied to develop EPRs for the management of other diseases. Conclusions: The epilepsy EPR development is at an advanced stage. 16 of 30 use cases are complete. User acceptance testing commenced in April 2005 and we expect roll-out of phase 1 to the epilepsy out-patient service at Beaumont Hospital in Summer 2005. In this presentation we will demonstrate our experience with the project to date and the first phase EPR user interfaces. Building on this infrastructure we aim to further enhance the care of epilepsy patients by providing remote access to the EPR to healthcare professionals in other settings and to authorised patients. (Supported by the Irish Health Research Board.) 1 Mary T. McCole, 2 Mercedes P. Jacobson, and 2 John O. Elliott ( 1 Critical Care Department, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Philadelphia, PA ; and 2 Neurology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA ) Rationale: Individuals with epilepsy always seek to know more about their condition. Parents of children with epilepsy and young people with epilepsy want to know if their condition is likely to remit or worsen. Young adults eventually become concerned about the possible hereditary impact epilepsy may have upon future offspring. In this study an individual with epilepsy, without training in genetics or medical research, endeavored to identify all family members with epilepsy. Methods: The index subject, an American female of Irish Catholic descent, identified herself. She was aware that epilepsy ran in her family. She subsequently researched the family history of epilepsy by interviewing living relatives. The fact that epilepsy occurred in multiple generations was found when the subject began exploring her family history. The index subject trained herself in genealogical research by following the recommendations of others who had done the same, as well as reviewing multiple records relevant to her family tree. Oral histories provided most of the information. All research was done in the US. Results: Genealogic research identified 5 generations with epilepsy in this family. Epilepsy could be traced back to the index subject's paternal grandparents (generation 1 G1). Epilepsy was clearly traced to the paternal grandfather's maternal family, although the grandmother seemed to have more knowledge than expected for seizure disorders. Grandparents were from the same county in Ireland but not cconsanguineous. They may have been denied immigration to the US by disclosing an illness such as epilepsy; however, neither were never known to have seizures. In the 2nd generation (G2) 1of 8 and 7 of 26 in generation 3 (G3) had seizures. All individuals but one in G2 married subjects of Irish heritage. All G3 subjects married non-Irish. In G4, 1of 45 had seizures. Of 9 G5 subjects, none have yet to develop seizures. While absence seizures were reported, the primary seizure type is tonic-clonic, with typical onset at age 8 and no onset later than 15. Epilepsy is mild; some individuals outgrew epilepsy. This research also identified three 2nd cousins; one each for G2, G3  however, one child was not able to go to school because of his condition. Two adults were currently unemployed because of their uncontrolled seizures. Results: The verbatim transcriptions were treated as a database. Data were analyzed by two investigators to identify themes. Each investigator independently identified the themes and listed the statements that supported that theme. The investigators then met to discuss each theme and supporting statements and 100% agreement was reached. Four themes with subthemes evolved from the parent data: Difficulties/Struggles/Problems (Navigating the health care system, Being an advocate, Trajectory of disorder and what to expect from health care professionals, Family role changes); Helpful at the beginning (Time to process, Access to doctors and nurses); Helpful now (Information: building on existing knowledge, Support); and Fears, Needs and Concerns (Interference with growth and development, Prognosis, Unpredictability/uncertainty). Two themes evolved from the child data: Talking at my level and Feeling different than others. Conclusions: Findings from this study provide direction for health care professionals working with children and their families. It is evident that much attention needs to be directed to assessing informational and emotional support needs during the diagnostic process. It appears equally important that ongoing assessment is necessary as chidlren and parents have continuing needs beyond the initial encounter. Future research is needed to develop educational interventions that address these concerns and needs for both children and their parents. (Supported by Center for Enhancing Quality of Life in Chronic Illness, Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis, IN, 46202.) 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Sally L. Hanson, 1 Chris D. Tollefson, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Joseph I. Sirven, 1 Michael C. Roarke, and 1 Deborah L. Shulman ( 1 Neurology/Nuclear Radiology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, AZ ) Rationale: Many medical centers with epilepsy monitoring units (EMU), are performing ictal brain scintigraphy (SPECT). In order to produce accurate SPECT images, the injection of radiopharmaceutical (tracer) must occur during the seizure. After the onset of a seizure, the preferred maximum amount of time allowed for injecting the isotope is 90 seconds with less than 30 seconds being optimal. The medical personnel in closest proximity to the patient during seizure onset is the registered nurse (RN). Injection of the radioactive tracer by the RN may be the best way to ensure an optimally timed ictal injection. State radiation regulatory agencies are often reluctant to grant permission to perform these injections to allied health personnel outside of the Nuclear Medicine department. We will describe our RN safety education program and competency assessment program at Mayo Clinic Arizona (MCA). Methods: The Arizona Radiation Regulatory Agency (ARRA) controls the use of all radiopharmaceuticals. MCA has a broad scope radioactive material license from the ARRA. ARRA granted approval to deliver the injection of radiopharmaceuticals for this procedure, provided that an education module and competency assessment were developed for the RNs at MCA working in the EMU. Certified Nuclear Medicine Technologists (CNMTs) and the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) provided initial education (January 2003) for these RNs. Advisory opinions posted by the Arizona State Board of Nursing had previously established that RNs were able to inject IV contrast medium for diagnostic studies such as computed tomography. Results: A total of 15 RNs were present for the initial training which involved viewing a radiation safety video, reading and verbalizing understanding of the unit specific ictal radiopharmaceutical injection policy. A performance criteria sheet was completed as each RN demonstrated the correct performance of these injections. The initial class was approximately one hour. All 26 EMU RNs completed the same education requirements described above. All RNs (100%) met the competency requirement. This competency is reinforced and revalidated during annual unit based education, which is mandatory for all RNs. During annual competencies RNs are not required to view the radiation video again, however, they are required to demonstrate understanding of the policy as well as correct performance of the injection and handling of the radioactive material. Conclusions: Despite regulatory deterrents to the procedure, EMU RNs play an important role in the injection of ictal SPECT scan patients at MCA. Through a dedicated radiation safety education and competency assessment, EMU RNs can aquire the knowledge and skills necessary for the safe and rapid injection of the radiopharmaceutical during a seizure event. 1 Christine O'Dell, 1 David Masur, 2 Anne T. Berg, 1 Maryana Sigalova, 1 Rochelle C. Ledgister, and 1 Shlomo Shinnar ( 1 Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY ; and 2 BIOS, NIU, DeKalb, IL ) Rationale: To determine the frequency of the utilization of special educational services in children who present with a first unprovoked seizure. Methods: In a prospective study, 407 children age one month to 19 years (mean age 6.8 years) with a first unprovoked seizure were recruited and then followed for a mean of 14.4 years. A structured interview was conducted > 10 years after the initial seizure which included questions about education. Educational data were available in 325 (80%) cases and in 101 sibling controls. Results: In the overall cohort, 129 (40%) of the subjects and 23 (23%) of the controls in this predominantly inner city cohort had either received any special educational services including resource room or repeated a grade (SpEd group) at some point (p < 0.002). Limiting the analysis to cases with cryptogenic or idiopathic etiology, 85 (33%) of 259 cases compared to 23 (23%) controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.06). Among these 259 cases, 42 (28%) of 152 children who only had one seizure were in the SpEd group compared with 25 (32%) of 79 children with a total of 2 to 9 seizures and 18 (64%) of 28 children with 10 or more seizures over the duration of the study (p = 0.0007). Comparing the children with a cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and only one seizure to the controls, 28% of 152 cases and 23% of controls were in the SpEd group (p = 0.39). On the other hand, 40% of 107 children with cryptogenic/idiopathic etiology and recurrent seizures were in the SpEd group which was significantly higher than the control group (p = 0.007). Conclusions: Children with recurrent seizures have a higher rate of receiving special educational services than children who present with a single unprovoked seizure or than sibling controls. This is particularly true of those with 10 or more seizures. However, children with a single unprovoked seizure who do not recur have a similar profile of educational needs as controls. These data provide further support for the favorable outcome of children with a single unprovoked seizure. (Supported by NIH grant NS 26151 from NINDS.) 1,4,5 Rosemary J. Panelli, 1 Susan M. Moore, 2 Christine Kilpatrick, 2 Zelko Matkovic, 3 Wendyl D'souza, and 2,3,4 Terence J. O'Brien ( 1 Life and Social Sciences, Swinburne University ; 2 Department of Neurology, Royal Melbourne Hospital ; 3 Department of Neurology, The Alfred ; 4 Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne ; and 5 Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia ) Rationale: Research suggests that patients with epilepsy are at risk of negative psychosocial effects. This longitudinal study followed a cohort of First Seizure Clinic patients over 12 months to compare psychosocial outcomes of those patients diagnosed with seizures and those who were not. Methods: Following a suspected first seizure, adults with no known prior diagnosis of epilepsy were grouped into four broad diagnostic categories: provoked or single seizures (33.5%), epilepsy (35.5%), syncope (14.3%), or other (18.8%). Self-report questionnaires were completed at the first visit (n = 245), 3 months (n = 156), and 12 months (n = 93). Measures included the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), a perception of general health question, a satisfaction with treatment scale, and a perceived stigma scale. Results: In 245 participants the mean age was 37 years (SD 16) and 65% were male. Anxiety and depression rates did not differ significantly between the four diagnostic groups. However, there was a strong relationship between mood and levels of perceived general health. Patients with the poorest perception of their general health had anxiety and depression levels significantly higher than patients with high levels of perceived general health at all time points (all p < 0.001, one way ANOVA). Satisfaction with treatment also did not vary between diagnostic groups, but was correlated with mood. Low treatment satisfaction was associated with high levels of anxiety and depression: 3 months (anxiety: r = .35, p < 0.001; depression: r = .29, p < 0.01); 12 months (anxiety: r = .27, p < 0.05, depression: r = .24, p < 0.05). There was no difference between the perceived stigma scores of the four diagnostic categories. However, perceived stigma was strongly correlated with anxiety and depression: baseline (anxiety: r = .60; depression: r = .52); 3 months (anxiety: r = .55; depression: r = .55); 12 months (anxiety: r = .47; depression: r = .43); (all p < 0.001). Conclusions: First Seizure Clinic patients diagnosed with seizures do not appear to be at higher risk of affective disturbances or perceived stigma in the first 12 months, than those who are not diagnosed with seizures. Mood is a stronger indicator of patient well-being than diagnosis and this needs to be considered in patient management. (Supported by Australian Research Council and the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria.) 1 Sharon Penney, 1 Maureen Robertson, 1 Jackie Martini, 1 Thea Dupras, 1 Nancy Thornton, 1 Corinne McMillan, 1 Arlene Sadownyk, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Pediatrics, Janeway Child Health Centre, St John, NL, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; Clinical Neurosciences, Alberta Children's Hospital, Calgary, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; Adult Convulsive Disorder Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, AB, Canada; and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Informal surveys reveal that in Canada (2003) there are no more than two dozen nurses working part or full-time in epilepsy. Three large Canadian provinces have no access to epilepsy nurses. We conducted a survey to assess the perceived role and value of specialized epilepsy nurses in the out-patient and in-patient setting. Methods: This was a cross-sectional survey involving epileptologists and epilepsy clinic patients across Canada. Epilepsy centers were identified from previous census. Physicians and patients answered a ten-item questionnaire. Physicians were asked about dedicated funding for epilepsy nurses, availability at their centre, specific roles, and a rating of importance of specialized epilepsy nurses. Patients were asked about type of interaction with the epilepsy nurse, perception of helpfulness and satisfaction, as well as health care setting. The project was approved by the internal Ethics Review Board. Results: At the time of this submission, 17 centres had replied, 41% had dedicated funding for a total of 25 epilepsy nurses. Their roles were multiple: 25?100% of their activities were clinical, 5?40% research and 5?30% purely inpatient. Seventy-six percent of the nurses were involved in educational activities, 65% were involved specialized seizure monitoring units, 58% were involved in coordinating pre-surgical evaluation, and 82% were involved in other patient care areas. All centers rated the role of the epilepsy nurse as highly important (7/7). At the time of this report, 92 patients replied. Ninety-six percent had contact with an epilepsy nurse, either directly, over the telephone or both. The most commonly reported benefit was enhancing communication between patients and neurologists (91%), understanding anti-seizure drugs (62%) and understanding epilepsy (54%). In addition, nurses assisted patients cope with epilepsy. Seventy-five percent (75%) rated this as 5/7 or higher, and 80% were highly satisfied with nursing intervention (5/7 or higher). Conclusions: There is a need for an increased role of dedicated epilepsy nurses at all levels of epilepsy care. Both physicians and patients rated patient education, assistance with care and organizational aspects as highly valuable. Unfortunately, many patients with epilepsy do not have access to this valuable resource. 1 Lena K.A. Räty, 2 Birgitta A. Söderfeldt, and 1 Bodil M. Wilde Larsson ( 1 Department of Nursing Science, Division for Health and Caring Sciences, Karlstad, Sweden ; and 2 Department of Neuroscience and Locomotion, Division of Neurology, Linköping, Sweden ) Rationale: The aim was to study the development of the epilepsy condition during adolescence and to identify factors that are of significant importance to achieve optimal psychosocial well-being and seizure-freedom or seizure reduction in adulthood. A further aim was to study quality of life in young adults. Methods: In 1999 151 adolescents (13 - 22 years) with epilepsy answered questionnaires on quality of life focusing on self-esteem, psychosocial and medical aspects. In 2004 a follow-up study was carried out with questionnaires mainly identical to those used in 1999. One questionnaire regarding quality of life (QLI) was added. The answering rate was 70%. No significant differences were found between participants and dropouts regarding variables measured 1999. Results: At present results regarding psychosocial factors and quality of life have been preliminary analysed. Compared with 1999 males reported a lower psychosocial well-being (p = 0.009) at the follow-up in 2004. The differences were most evident in patients aged 18?20 (?22) years. The lowest scores were reported on the sense of coherence, representing confidence in life by measuring manageability, comprehensiveness and meaning (p = 0.01). As five years ago the participants reported a positive self-esteem, however somewhat lower compared with the general population. The lowest quality of life was reported in the psychological/spiritual area and highest in relation to the family. Conclusions: The result indicates that psychosocial well-being, especially regarding the sense of coherence could be age-related in males with epilepsy, with the lowest point at 18 ? 20 years of age. 1 Maureen Robertson, and 1 Samuel Wiebe ( 1 Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada ) Rationale: Although epilepsy has a high prevalence, misconceptions and lack of knowledge among the public are problematic. Grade XII students are at the brink of adulthood. This is an impressionable age when lifetime attitudes are often formed. We evaluated the effect of a structured educational intervention about epilepsy in this age group. Methods: Seventy grade XII students engage annually in one-day field trips with lectures and demonstrations by specialized epilepsy professionals, following a classroom education session on the brain. Pre-intervention (day before) and post-intervention (within 2?3 days), identical questionnaires were administered. Questionnaires contained 21 questions assessing general knowledge about epilepsy, attitudinal aspects, and personal knowledge of people with epilepsy. Sample questions include: ?Is epilepsy a form of mental illness?,??People who have epilepsy should not go out in public places in case they might have a seizure (True/False),??What should you do if you see a person you know having a seizure?? Results: In 2002 the average correct pre-test and post-test response rate was 65% and 87%, respectively. In 2005 the average correct pre-intervention and post-intervention response rate was 49% and 70% respectively (mean difference of 22.4 points, p < 0.001). Therefore knowledge and attitudes improved by this structured educational intervention. Free text analysis of written feedback by students revealed improved attitudes and empathy for people with epilepsy. Conclusions: Epilepsy centers can serve important educational functions in society, an often neglected activity in such specialized units. Educational interventions in epilepsy are meaningful and effective in adolescence. 1 Cheryl P. Shore, 2 Susan M. Perkins, and 1 Joan K. Austin ( 1 Nursing, Indiana University/Purdue University Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN ; and 2 Division of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN ) Rationale: Previous research suggests that children with epilepsy and their parents experience stressors related to the child's health condition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the Seizures and Epilepsy Education (SEE) program on quality of life, seizure condition management, and health care costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. Methods: A quasi-experimental design was used. Each participant served as his or her control. Most participants were referred by a school nurse or physician. Children were eligible to participate if they were at least 12 years of age, had a diagnosis of epilepsy, and could attend with at least one parent. Parents of children younger than 12 were also eligible to attend. Participants attended the SEE program, a two-day intensive psychoeducational program including content on medical and social aspects of epilepsy. Participants completed instruments to measure the variables of interest prior to program attendance, 4 weeks after attending, and 6 months after attendance. Statistical analysis was completed using SAS Version 9.1. Repeated measures ANCOVA, McNemar's tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were utitlized. Results: Representatives of 17 families participated. Parents significantly improved on many variables both 4 weeks and 6 months after program attendance. Outcomes with continued improvement 6 months after the program included parental perceptions of child behavior, child mental health, and family activities. Parents also demonstrated improved knowledge of epilepsy, less worry about the seizure condition, and had fewer unmet needs for information. Parents reported fewer nonscheduled health care visits and fewer child absences from school after SEE program attendance. Children's scores that remained significantly improved six months after the program included perceptions of their behavior, mental health, self-esteem, and family activities. Children maintained significantly lower levels of depressive symptoms and fewer fears about epilepsy six months after program attendance. Conclusions: The SEE program resulted in significant differences in quality of life indicators, measures of seizure condition management, and health care and related costs for adolescents with epilepsy and parents of children with epilepsy. The results are consistent with those from a previous study with adult participants (Helgeson et al., Epilepsia 1990; 31; 75?82). Health care providers can recommend the SEE program and reasonably expect that attendance will result in improved quality of life and seizure condition management. (Supported by The Epilepsy Foundation through the generous support of Shire US, Inc.) 1 Deborah L. Shulman, 1 Patricia H. Miller, 1 Joseph F. Drazkowski, 1 Katherine H. Noe, and 1 Joseph I. Sirven ( 1 Neurology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, Mesa ) Rationale: Telephone triage is a major part of the role of the epilepsy nurse coordinator. Some calls are from patients, while others are received by a spouse or parent. A large portion of these calls includes: reporting seizures, requesting lab results, and difficulties with medications. Many times instructions are given to adjust medications based on lab results, seizures, or side effects reported. On many occasions the person calling is asked to call back and let us know how they are doing in relation to the instructions given. Unfortunately we do not always receive a call back with this information. Are family members more responsible than patients about calling back? A tracking system to follow up with patients on a timely basis when we did not hear back from them was initiated. This is important in order to improve health outcomes from interventions. Methods: The epilepsy coordinator is responsible for all phone calls for a team of 2 neurologists. All calls received during regular business hours were documented prospectively over a two-week period noting, 1. who called, 2. the purpose of the call, and 3. any directions that were given. All calls pertained to individuals with epilepsy. We did not include calls related to medication refill requests, appointments, scheduling monitoring admissions or calls that did not request a return call. We tabulated the number of calls from family members versus patients, and which group responded to the request to call back. Our intent was to establish better communication with all our patients and to identify which group required more of an effort to establish consistent and reliable communication. Results: A total of 37 phone calls were analyzed with 13 calls for medication problems, 10 to report seizures and 14 for test results. 46% of calls received were by family members and 54% by a patient. Phone calls for test results that led to medication changes represented the largest return rate of calls as instructed with 38% from the family group and 36% from the patients. 50% of families were likely to call back, while 52% of the patients did not. An equal number of spouses called, however, 40% of wives called back versus 20% of husbands. There were more telephone calls from females with a return rate of 55% versus 38% of males that returned calls. 3 out of the 5 calls received from parents were not returned. When we called patients we did not hear from, some stated they planned on calling but they ?did not want to be a bother.? Conclusions: It is important to know how patients are doing after therapy changes. The development of a tracking chart will enable us to reach out to each patient in a timely manner when they do not call back as instructed. Ensuring that health care provider recommendations are completed is essential to improve health outcomes. 1,2 Debbie Terry, 1,3 Juliann Paolicchi, and 1 Mary Karn ( 1 Neurology, Columbus Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH ; 2 Nursing, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ; and 3 Pediatrics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH ) Rationale: Children with epilepsy are frequently prescribed diazepam rectal gel for the acute treatment of seizures. In addition to home use, parents have asked other caregivers in day care and school settings to administer diazepam rectal gel. Parents have reported resistance and refusal by schools or day care providers to administer diazepam rectal gel. This may have a significant impact on the child's well being and the child and family's quality of life. The purpose of this study was to identify the frequency with which parents of children with epilepsy experience barriers to the use of diazepam rectal gel in daycare or school settings, what those barriers are, and what the impact is on the child and family. Methods: This was a prospective study conducted in a comprehensive epilepsy clinic. During a six month period, parents of children birth to 18 years were screened to participate in the study. Parents of children previously prescribed diazepam rectal gel were asked to complete an 18 item questionnaire. Results: Of 218 parents screened, 86 qualified for the study and 64 agreed to participate. Of the 64 parents who completed the questionnaire, 43 (68%) had asked their school or daycare to administer diazepam rectal gel. Overall, of those 43 parents, 35 (81%) reported that the school or day care agreed and 8 (19%) reported they refused to give diazepam rectal gel. Of these 43 parents, 16 (37%) asked MRDD schools of which 15 (94%) agreed and 1 (6%) refused; 21 (49%) asked public schools of which 17 (81%) agreed and 4 (19%) refused; and 6 (14%) asked private schools of which 3 (50%) agreed and 3 (50%) refused. There was a statistically significant difference in the responses between MRDD and private schools (p = .028). Reasons for refusal were: 5 (62%) not legally allowed to give diazepam rectal gel, 2 (25%) reasons were unknown, 2 (25%) worry that school staff would not know when to give the medication, 2 (25%) fear of embarrassing the child, and 1 (12.5%) fear of not being able to learn how to give the medication. Of the 8 parents whose school or day care refused to give diazepam rectal gel, 3 (42%) parents reported no effect on their family, but 3 (42%) parents worried their child would be hurt by a seizure, 1 (12.5%) parent kept her child at home, and 1 (12.5%) parent went to school with her child. Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that the majority of children prescribed diazepam rectal gel do not encounter barriers to its use in school and day care settings. However, children in private schools are significantly more likely to encounter barriers than are children in MRDD programs. The most frequently stated reason for refusal of the school or day care to give diazepam rectal gel was legal concerns. When schools refuse to give diazepam rectal gel, the quality of life of the child and family can be significantly impacted. 1 Rupprecht Thorbecke, 1 Ulrich Specht, 1 Joachim Czisch, and 2 Theodor W. May ( 1 Rehabilitation Unit, EvKB, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ; and 2 Society for Epilepsy Research, Bethel Epilepsy Center, Bielefeld, Germany ) Rationale: A follow-up evaluation of patients of a specialized rehabilitation unit for people with epilepsy showed significant improvements for epilepsy related fear, emotional adaptation, physical and emotional health, however only weak effects for perceived stigma (PS) (3). Using data from the same cohort, this study aims to get more insight into the association of clinical, neuropsychological and psychosocial variables with PS. Methods: Ninety-six consecutive non-surgical patients with epilepsy (mean age, 35 years, 66% male) completed a validated questionnaire (PESOS) before admission (2, 3). PESOS includes a 4 item PS scale. During the rehabilitation program, all patients underwent comprehensive epileptological, neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluation. Associations between PS and clinical respectively psychosocial variables were tested with univariate methods (p < .05, two tailed). Results: Mean duration of epilepsy was 17.5 years. 24% of the patients were seizure-free (>6 months) on admission. 75% of the patients reported more or less pronounced PS. There were strong relations between PS and emotional adaptation, self esteem, and perceived restrictions because of one's epilepsy (all, p < .01). No association between PS and psychiatric co-morbidity or partnership was found. However PS was higher in patients with early onset of epilepsy, neuropsychological deficits or epilepsy related fears. Patients holding a driving license felt less stigmatized than those who did not. There were however no differences between patients who were actually driving/not driving because of their epilepsy. PS was associated with difficulties to address one's epilepsy when being with other persons, and with the number of friends and frequency of contacts. Conclusions: Our findings are in accordance with the literature, showing that PS is a common finding in chronic epilepsy, with strong associations of PS with emotional variables however only weak associations with seizure frequency (1). They underline the importance of holding a driving license and also of neuropsychological deficits for PS. Finally they demonstrate clearly that PS is associated with social isolation. REFERENCES 1.?Jacoby A. Epilepsy Behav 3, 6S2 (2002) S10?S20. 2.?May TW, et al. PESOS-Fragebogen fuer Menschen mit Epilepsie. Z Epileptol 2004;17(4):287?300. 3.?Specht U., et al. Epilepsia 2004;45 Suppl 7: 57 ( Supported by the society for epilepsy research , Bielefeld , Germany .) 1 Michael J. Wierzbinski, and 2 Paul C. Van Ness ( 1 Medicine Services/Epilepsy Outreach Program, Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX ; and 2 Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX ) Rationale: About 25% of adult epilepsy patients have intractable seizures. Many are unable to work or retain a job due to seizures and other co-morbidities. Patients may apply for federal governmental assistance since they are unable to work. They apply thorough the Social Security Administration for one of two programs. One, is Social Supplemental Income (SSI) and or Social Security Disability Income (SSDI), the later if they have a consistent work history. After applying for disability it may take several years before benefits are approved. Additional information would be helpful to find out what variables may determine the time it may take for a positive ruling of disability for a patient's claim. Methods: Chart reviews and telephone interviews were conducted on 25 adult patients from an indigent, urban county hospital who were felt to be disabled. Patients who consistently attended an epilepsy clinic, report having seizures, and have applied for governmental disability benefits were included. Results: Disability information was obtained from 25 patients. 75% of the case had seizure onset before age 20. 36% of the patients had generalized tonic clonic seizures and 32% had generalized seizures along with complex partial seizures. 75% of the patients had a diagnostic EEG that confirmed their epilepsy diagnosis. 40% of the patients had other co-morbidities. 28% had a psychiatric diagnosis. 60% either had cognitive deficits or were diagnosed with borderline IQ and/or mental retardation. 50% had no work history and or a limited work history. Most were over the age of 40 and were minorities. At least, 60% of the patients had previously applied for benefits at least one other time. 30% of the patients who applied for SSI/SSDI were approved for disability within one year of application. 70% who applied for disability had to wait one to three years before they were approved. Conclusions: Applying for disability thorough the Social Security Administration is complex, confusing, and time consuming. Most patients in this study required assistance in applying for disability from an attorney or social worker. Some patients have filed multiple times for disability. Many are denied disability initially despite eventual approval. Several cases were told that they could work despite the physician's opinion. The wait has many psychosocial implications. Some patients give up trying to obtain disability and depend upon family for financial assistance. Finally, several patients had their disability claim turned down by disability attorneys/representatives. The later did not want to represent the patient's disability claim. There was no one to assist them thorough this process except their social worker. (Supported by Epilepsy Outreach Program is funded by a grant from the Department of State Health Services (Texas).)
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - He, Yangchun
AU  - Liu, Qigong
AU  - Wang, Jing
AU  - Wang, Dao Wen
AU  - Ding, Hu
AU  - Wang, Wei
TI  - Prognostic value of elevated cardiac troponin I in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage
JO  - Clinical Cardiology
JA  - Clin Cardiol
VL  - n/a
IS  - n/a
SN  - 0160-9289
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/clc.23320
DO  - doi:10.1002/clc.23320
KW  - cardiac troponin I
KW  - intracerebral hemorrhage
KW  - mortality
KW  - poor outcome
KW  - prognostic marker
AB  - Abstract Background Although cardiac troponin has been well established as diagnostic and prognostic makers for acute coronary heart disease, the prognostic value of elevated cardiac troponin in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) was inconsistent and not systematically evaluated. Hypothesis We proposed the hypothesis that the practical utility of cardiac troponin levels for prediction of mortality and poor outcome in ICH patients. Methods A total of 1004 patients with ICH were retrospectively reviewed and qualified for further analysis from June 2012 to December 2015. The patients were divided into different groups based on measurements of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) at the time of admission and the following day. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards analysis were performed to determine the independent prognostic value of the cTnI for patients in-hospital mortality and poor outcomes, the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to assess the predictive value of cTnI, ICH score, and combination of them. Results Serum cTnI level was an independent predictor in-hospital mortality (positive vs negative, HR (hazard ratios) = 3.44, 95% CI (confidence interval) 1.66-7.13, P <?.001) and poor outcomes in patients with ICH (positive vs negative, HR = 6.69, 95% CI 4.25-10.52, P <?.001). Addition of cTnI to ICH score significantly improved the prognostic discrimination for both in-hospital mortality and poor outcomes. Conclusion Serum cTnI levels may be valuable as predictor for in hospital mortality and poor outcomes and may be useful in the risk stratification of ICH during hospitalization.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Acharya, U. Rajendra
AU  - Ng, E.Y.K.
AU  - Sree, S. Vinitha
AU  - Chua, Chua Kuang
AU  - Chattopadhyay, Subhagata
TI  - Higher order spectra analysis of breast thermograms for the automated identification of breast cancer
JO  - Expert Systems
JA  - Expert Systems
VL  - 31
IS  - 1
SN  - 0266-4720
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-0394.2012.00654.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1468-0394.2012.00654.x
SP  - 37
EP  - 47
KW  - breast cancer
KW  - thermograms
KW  - higher order spectra
KW  - artificial neural network
KW  - support vector machine
PY  - 2014
AB  - Abstract Breast cancer is a leading cancer affecting women worldwide. Mammography is a scanning procedure involvingX-rays of the breast. It causes discomfort and may cause high incidence of false negatives. Breast thermography is a new screening method of breast that helps in the early detection of cancer. It is a non-invasive imaging procedure that captures the infrared heat radiating off from the breast surface using an infrared camera. The main objective of this work is to evaluate the use of higher order spectral features extracted from thermograms in classifying normal and abnormal thermograms. For this purpose, we extracted five higher order spectral features and used them in a feed-forward artificial neural network (ANN) classifier and a support vector machine (SVM). Fifty thermograms (25 each of normal and abnormal) were used for analysis.SVM presented a good sensitivity of 76% and specificity of 84%, and theANN classifier demonstrated higher values of sensitivity (92%) and specificity (88%). The proposed system, therefore, shows great promise in automatic classification of normal and abnormal breast thermograms without the need for subjective interpretation.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Wang, Yan
AU  - Jiang, Zhenzuo
AU  - Yang, Fan
AU  - Chai, Xin
AU  - Zhu, Yan
AU  - Zhao, Xiaoya
AU  - Jiang, Miaomiao
AU  - Yang, Jing
AU  - Zhao, Buchang
AU  - Qian, Ke
AU  - Wang, Yuefei
C8  - BMC-15-0607.R1
TI  - Establishment of a ternary network system for evaluating the antioxidant fraction of Danhong injection
JO  - Biomedical Chromatography
JA  - Biomed. Chromatogr.
VL  - 30
IS  - 10
SN  - 0269-3879
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/bmc.3739
DO  - doi:10.1002/bmc.3739
SP  - 1666
EP  - 1675
KW  - Danhong injection
KW  - antioxidant activity
KW  - ternary network evaluation system
KW  - NMR
KW  - UPLC-Q/TOF MS
PY  - 2016
AB  - Abstract Oxidative stress plays a crucial role in numerous cardiovascular diseases. As an effective therapy, Danhong injection (DHI) is considered to act through an antioxidant mechanism for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. In our study, we focused on the potential contribution of the antioxidant capacity of DHI fractions (Frs) and established an innovative screening method based on a 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl radical scavenging activity assay. A ternary network evaluation system, which was constructed based on the radical scavenging activity, the area under the activity?concentration curve and the solid content of the fractions, was implemented to select the fractions that posed the greatest antioxidant effect. As a result, Frs 5?7 and Frs 17?19 were shown to exhibit superior antioxidant activity according to the regression area of the ternary network, which was >0.5. Furthermore, the active fractions were characterized by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry combined with nuclear magnetic resonance. This study provided an effective method for the comprehensive evaluation of the antioxidant effect of DHI fractions. Copyright ? 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - van Koeverden, Ian D.
AU  - den Ruijter, Hester M.
AU  - Scholtes, Vincent P. W.
AU  - G. E. H. Lam, Marnix
AU  - Haitjema, Saskia
AU  - Buijsrogge, Marc P.
AU  - J. L. Suyker, Willem
AU  - van Wijk, Richard H.
AU  - de Groot, Mark C. H.
AU  - van Herwaarden, Joost A.
AU  - van Solinge, Wouter W.
AU  - de Borst, Gert J.
AU  - Pasterkamp, Gerard
AU  - Hoefer, Imo E.
C7  - e13055
TI  - A single preoperative blood test predicts postoperative sepsis and pneumonia after coronary bypass or open aneurysm surgery
JO  - European Journal of Clinical Investigation
JA  - Eur J Clin Invest
VL  - 49
IS  - 3
SN  - 0014-2972
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/eci.13055
DO  - doi:10.1111/eci.13055
SP  - e13055
KW  - chronic inflammation
KW  - hematopoietic tissues
KW  - Red cell distribution width
KW  - risk prediction
PY  - 2019
AB  - Abstract Background Major surgery comes with a high risk for postoperative inflammatory complications. Preoperative risk scores predict mortality risk but fail to identify patients at risk for complications following cardiovascular surgery. We therefore assessed the value of preoperative red cell distribution width (RDW) as a predictor for pneumonia and sepsis after cardiovascular surgery and studied the relation of RDW with hematopoietic tissue activity. Methods RDW is an easily accessible, yet seldomly used parameter from routine haematology measurements. RDW was extracted from the Utrecht Patient Orientated Database (UPOD) for preoperative measurements in patients undergoing open abdominal aortic anuerysm repair (AAA)(N = 136) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG)(N = 2193). The cohorts were stratified in tertiles to assess effects over the different groups. Generalized Linear Models were used to determine associations between RDW and postoperative inflammatory complications. Hematopoietic tissue activity was scored using fluor-18-(18F)-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography and associated with RDW using linear regression models. Results In total, 43(31.6%) and 73 patients (3.3%) suffered from inflammatory complications after AAA-repair or CABG, respectively; the majority being pneumonia in both cohorts. Postoperative inflammatory outcome incidence increased from 19.6% in the lowest to 48.9% in the highest RDW tertile with a corresponding risk ratio (RR) of 2.35 ([95%CI:1.08-5.14] P = 0.032) in AAA patients. In the CABG cohort, the incidence of postoperative inflammatory outcomes increased from 1.8% to 5.3% with an adjusted RR of 1.95 ([95%CI:1.02-3.75] P = 0.044) for the highest RDW tertile compared with the lowest RDW tertile. FDG-PET scans showed associations of RDW with tissue activity in the spleen (B = 0.517 [P = 0.001]) and the lumbar bone marrow (B = 0.480 [P = 0.004]). Conclusion Elevated RDW associates with increased risk for postoperative inflammatory complications and hematopoietic tissue activity. RDW likely reflects chronic low-grade inflammation and should be considered to identify patients at risk for postoperative inflammatory complications following cardiovascular surgery.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
TI  - ASBMR 26th Annual Meeting M001–M585
JO  - Journal of Bone and Mineral Research
JA  - J Bone Miner Res
VL  - 19
IS  - S1
SN  - 0884-0431
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1002/jbmr.5650191306
DO  - doi:10.1002/jbmr.5650191306
SP  - S343
EP  - S484
PY  - 2004
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - MENGE, M.
AU  - ROSE, M.
AU  - BOHLAND, C.
AU  - ZSCHIESCHE, E.
AU  - KILP, S.
AU  - METZ, W.
AU  - ALLAN, M.
AU  - RÖPKE, R.
AU  - NÜRNBERGER, M.
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of tildipirosin in bovine plasma, lung tissue, and bronchial fluid (from live, nonanesthetized cattle)
JO  - Journal of Veterinary Pharmacology and Therapeutics
VL  - 35
IS  - 6
SN  - 0140-7783
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2885.2011.01349.x
DO  - doi:10.1111/j.1365-2885.2011.01349.x
SP  - 550
EP  - 559
PY  - 2012
AB  - Menge, M., Rose, M., Bohland, C., Zschiesche, E., Kilp, S., Metz, W., Allan, M., Röpke, R., Nürnberger, M. Pharmacokinetics of tildipirosin in bovine plasma, lung tissue, and bronchial fluid (from live, nonanesthetized cattle). J. vet. Pharmacol. Therap. 35, 550?559. The pharmacokinetics of tildipirosin (Zuprevo? 180?mg/mL solution for injection for cattle), a novel 16-membered macrolide for treatment, control, and prevention of bovine respiratory disease, were investigated in studies collecting blood plasma, lung tissue, and in vivo samples of bronchial fluid (BF) from cattle. After single subcutaneous (s.c.) injection at 4?mg/kg body weight, maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) was 0.7??g/mL. Tmax was 23?min. Mean residence time from the time of dosing to the time of last measurable concentration (MRTlast) and terminal half-life (T1/2) was 6 and 9?days, respectively. A strong dose?response relationship with no significant sex effect was shown for both Cmax and area under the plasma concentration?time curve from time 0 to the last sampling time with a quantifiable drug concentration (AUClast) over the range of doses up to 6?mg/kg. Absolute bioavailability was 78.9%. The volume of distribution based on the terminal phase (Vz) was 49.4?L/kg, and the plasma clearance was 144?mL/h/kg. The time?concentration profile of tildipirosin in BF and lung far exceeded those in blood plasma. In lung, tildipirosin concentrations reached 9.2??g/g at 4?h, peaked at 14.8??g/g at day 1, and slowly declined to 2.0??g/g at day 28. In BF, the concentration of tildipirosin reached 1.5 and 3.0??g/g at 4 and 10?h, maintained a plateau of about 3.5??g/g between day 1 and 3, and slowly declined to 1.0 at day 21. T1/2 in lung and BF was approximately 10 and 11?days. Tildipirosin is rapidly and extensively distributed to the respiratory tract followed by slow elimination.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
AU  - Huang, Y.-P.
AU  - Liu, W.
AU  - Liu, Y.-D.
AU  - Wang, H.-X.
AU  - Hu, K.
AU  - Chen, B.
AU  - Lu, M.-J.
C7  - e12955
TI  - Right testicular volume is a dominant predictor of testicular function determined by sperm parameters and total testosterone
JO  - Andrologia
JA  - Andrologia
VL  - 50
IS  - 4
SN  - 0303-4569
UR  - https://doi.org/10.1111/and.12955
DO  - doi:10.1111/and.12955
SP  - e12955
KW  - independent factor
KW  - right testicular volume
KW  - semen quality
KW  - testicular function
KW  - total testosterone
PY  - 2018
AB  - Summary This study aims to evaluate the predictive value of left testicular volume (LTV) and right testicular volume (RTV) for testicular function respectively. Men who requested fertility testing for any reason were enrolled from December 2012 to November 2015. Subjects with primary scrotal diseases or a condition interfering reproductive system were excluded. Testicular volume (TV) was evaluated by scrotal ultrasound. Sex hormone and semen analysis including sperm concentration (SC) and sperm motility rate (SMR) were performed. Statistical analysis including comparison, stepwise linear regression and logistic regression was used. Two hundred and seventy-four patients with oligoasthenozoospermia/low testosterone and 27 control subjects were enrolled. Both LTV and RTV positively correlated with testicular function, and no differences were found between bilateral TV. RTV is the best independent factor associated with testicular function determined by SC (?=.292, p < .001), SMR (?=.227, p < .001) and total testosterone (TT) (?=.245, p < .001). Using a RTV value of 15.47 ml, the highest discriminating sensitivity and specificity were 66.7% and 62.4% respectively. RTV (<15 ml) was the only positive predictor for low testicular function (odds ratio=2.79, 95% confidence interval: 1.18?6.66; p =.020). RTV rather than LTV is the independent factor of overall testicular function determined by semen quality and TT levels. Further studies are needed to support and elucidate the difference in volume-function between bilateral testes.
ER  - 
